-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pokemon Battle Revolution
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/strategy/pokemonbattlerevolution/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Extensive use of DS connectivity.
 First online Wii game in the US.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Actual gameplay is quickly repetitive.
 Battles aren't presented very dynamically.
 Online support is bare-bones.
 Not as much to do if you don't have Pokemon Diamond or Pearl for the DS.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  2, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 5.3, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 2,451 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Genius Sonority
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date: Jun 25, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Battle Revolution caters to Pokemaniacs looking to wring every last drop out of Pokemon Diamond 
 and Pearl, but it's pretty worthless to anyone else. 

  The joys of Pokemon can be a difficult thing to explain to those who haven't been hooked. From 
 a distance, the core Pokemon games look like standard-abiding Japanese role-playing games, and 
 the changes that the series has undergone over the years have usually been subtle. The pieces might 
 not be revolutionary, but they fit together with a precision that makes for an RPG experience that's 
 accessible, highly engaging, and lasts a long time.  

  Pokemon Battle Revolution is the latest in a series that started with Pokemon Stadium on the Nintendo 
 64. Essentially, it is a single piece of the Pokemon experience -- the actual Pokemon fights -- that 
 has been brought to the Wii and polished up to a high shine. The thing about Pokemon Battle Revolution 
 is that, without any greater context of a grand adventure, Pokemon fights are kind of boring. Furthermore, 
 the game's connectivity with Pokemon Diamond and Pearl for the DS ends up being a crutch. If you 
 haven't already made the investment of time and money into one of those games, there's not much 
 to get out of Pokemon Battle Revolution.  

           You won't get the most out of Pokemon Battle Revolution without a DS and a copy of Pokemon 
 Diamond or Pearl.      

  Pokemon Battle Revolution takes place on the island of Poketopia, a place where Pokemon trainers 
 can go to battle other like-minded Pokemon trainers to their hearts' content. There are a few ways 
 you can go about this, though the best of them involve interaction with Pokemon Diamond or Pearl 
 for the DS. The DS battle mode is the simplest, and in a way, it best exemplifies what Pokemon 
 Battle Revolution is all about: making Pokemon fights look cool. Using their active Pokemon from 
 Diamond or Pearl and the DS itself as the controller, two to four players can have a good old-fashioned 
 Pokemon throw-down as big, polygonal versions of the pocket monsters go through the motions on 
 the TV.  

  In addition to the local multiplayer options, Pokemon Battle Revolution can be played online against 
 other players and is the first game for the Wii to hit the US with live online functionality. It's 
 a no-frills affair where you can choose to battle randomly against other trainers or directly challenge 
 any trainer with whom you've exchanged friend codes. The bummer here is that your friend code for 
 Pokemon Battle Revolution is different from the friend code for the Wii itself. It's not too different 
 from how the DS works online, and Nintendo has stated that it plans on assigning discrete friend 
 codes for any Wii games that go online. So, it's not surprising, but it's still kind of a hassle. 

  You can also import any Pokemon you've captured in Diamond or Pearl into the colosseum mode, where 
 you'll get to make yourself a trainer from a few basic models and fight your way through a series 
 of different colosseums. You will earn money from your victories that can then be used to buy new 
 clothing and baubles for your trainers. You can also purchase mystery gifts that can be transferred 
 back into Diamond or Pearl, though that's the extent of the flow of information back to the DS. 
 If you don't have Diamond or Pearl, your options in Pokemon Battle Revolution are more limited. 
 All of the DS connectivity stuff is obviously of no use. In the colosseum mode, you can't build 
 your own trainer from the ground up; instead you have to choose a prefab trainer who comes with 
 a set group of Pokemon. You can still play dress up with the trainer that you choose, but you're 
 stuck with whatever Pokemon come with that trainer. You'll eventually gain access to other trainers 
 with whom you can trade, but it still feels limited.  

  Even if you can take advantage of the game's DS connectivity, the underlying problem is that all 
 of the glimmer of seeing Pokemon duke it out on your TV doesn't make up for the fact that the battles 
 just aren't that involving. You pick which of your Pokemon you'll bring into battle, and you pick 
 one of their four attacks. Then you sit back and watch as the Pokemon pummel each other. In the 
 core Pokemon games, the repetitive nature of the battles is compensated for by the fact that it's 
 a means to an end: Your Pokemon grow stronger, you capture new Pokemon, and the story progresses. 
 In Pokemon Battle Revolution, the battles are an end unto themselves.  

           This marks an inauspicious start for online play on the Wii in the US.      

  What 
 is perhaps most disappointing about Pokemon Battle Revolution is its half-hearted job of making 
 the fights look exciting. The Pokemon themselves, the trainers, and the colosseums all look good, 
 if a bit aliased, but there's just no drama to the action. The game manages to make watching the 
 trainers throw out the pokeballs look exciting, and some of the attacks have a good amount of flash. 
 However, there are also a number of really plain-looking attacks, and those are the ones that you 
 seem to see repeatedly. Most of all, the way the trainers interact the Pokemon in the ring just 
 looks stagy and stiff, as if they're all just going through the motions. It's also worth noting 
 that there's a ridiculous play-by-play announcer who goes from accidentally amusing to repetitive 
 and grating within the first hour. Thankfully, he can be muted.  

  Because Pokemon Battle Revolution incorporates the DS into the action and introduces online play 
 to the Wii in the US, it should be more exciting. But when you get down to it, the action itself 
 is straightforward and single-minded to a fault. This may be a forgivable shortcoming if the very 
 idea of seeing the Pokemon you've spent hours and hours training in Diamond or Pearl is enough 
 to get you excited, but for everyone else, it's even less appealing than a real Pokemon game.  
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (203 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Artist09
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Battle Revolution is your typical time-based pokemon game for home console entertainment 
 systems. This game is mainly for those looking to get every last drop out of the Diamond and Pearl 
 games for the nintendo DS.
  
  PKMN: BR's gameplay is ok and could be alot better. The game keeps you entertained for a short period 
 of time, and makes you wonder if it will ever truly pick up again. The game has ok visuals and 
 stay to the pokemon look. Some game animations are repeated with different titles tied to them. The 
 music sounds like a gameboy gamecube mix which is a horrible combination. Nothing has really changed 
 since colosseum. The game is only truly enjoyed when you import ds pokemon in and see all the great 
 possiblities of gameplay. This game is fairly short but adding your own pokemon will increase the 
 length of the gaeme.
  
  The gameplay is consistant but only offers two ways to play. You have the choice of using the wii-mote 
 or the ds but the end result is all the same.
  
  In conclusion, PkmnLBr. is an ok wii game but best stick with another game like SuperSmash Bros 
 Brawl.. unless your a hardcore pokemon fan just avoid this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: canand
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2009 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Battle Revolution is a good game and It is fun to play and I like it a lot and the free 
 Pokemon you get is good and First off, There isn't really a story; You travel to this place called 
 Poketopia, so that you can battle in 12 different colosseums. You can do a DS battle mode, where 
 if you and a friend have Ds's with Pokemon Diamond or Pearl, then you can use your Pokemon from 
 those games to battle in 3d. The DS acts as a controller in this mode. If you don't have Diamond 
 or Pearl, then you can "Rent" Pokemon to use everybodey should buy this game becuse it is so good 
 all in all this is a great Pokemon game but I want Nintendo to make a Pokemon game where you can 
 snag Pokemon agian there good and exiteing I like Pokemon XD: Gale of Darkness best from them games.
 
  
  PS I will do another Review soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Us3fouR2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 10:26 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Battle Revolution is a good game, with a few quirks. First off, There isn't really a story; 
 You travel to this place called Poketopia, so that you can battle in 12 different colosseums. The 
 visuals are some of the best I've seen on the Wii so far. I'd compare it to Super Mario Galaxy 
 even, but it lacks finesse in It's presentation. After a Pokemon is attacked, it flinches, and 
 goes back to it's normal stance. If the Pokemon is knocked out, the same animation plays, and THEN 
 the fainting animation plays. This is annoying, and it seems as if the developers were lazy about 
 it. I mean, seriously, what were they thinking? This was never a problem in the Pokemon stadium 
 games, or in the Gamecube Pokemon games. Besides those annoyances, the game is fun to play, and 
 it has a lot of replay value. You can do a DS battle mode, where if you and a friend have Ds's 
 with Pokemon Diamond or Pearl, then you can use your Pokemon from those games to battle in 3d. 
 The DS acts as a controller in this mode. If you don't have Diamond or Pearl, then you can "Rent" 
 Pokemon to use. You can also "Rent" Pokemon to use in the single player mode, but the game is more 
 fun when you get to see your beloved Swampert in glorious 3D, and not some random Metagross. The 
 Wi-Fi play is pretty darn good, considering the fact that friend codes are not mandatory. Of course, 
 if you would like to play with a friend that you know, then friend codes are necessary. The stranger 
 Wi-Fi mode works well, and is fun. In fact, I would recommend it over the single player mode. There 
 are a few different character types that you can choose from, such as the sissy boy, girly girl, 
 woman, or man. You can change skin color and clothes+accessories. You start out with virtually 
 no clothes, or accessories, except for the starting ones. Eventually, you will be able to unlock 
 new stuff, such as the "Pikachu Fanny Pack!" or Pikachu makeup. (You can wear it even if you are 
 a male character.)
  
  All in all, I think that Battle Revolution could have used some more production time, or a story 
 mode like Pokemon Colosseum, BUT I had lots of fun playing it, so I can forgive it's flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokokrema94
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 5:05 pm PT
Review:  I was hoping a good pokemon wii game, but in the end is just something to complement well your 
 diamond/pearl version on the ds. Unlike past console pokemon games, this one doesn't has any pokemon 
 to battle (just some few rent pokemon) so if you want the full experience, you need a ds and a 
 copy of diamond or pearl. The gameplay from past games hasn't change, that doesn't mean that is 
 a bad thing but in this game that's really boring because you don't have so much to do apart from 
 battling the cpu or battling online,; in other games you got more varied modes and minigames (like 
 in pokemon stadium or colloseum) , and the online also sometimes doesn't work that well. The character 
 models, stadiums and pokemon look well but that's it. In the end this game's really dissapointing, 
 I hope they make a new pokemon wii game but with much more to do. If you plan to buy this game, 
 make sure you got a ds and pokemon diamond/pearl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipknoob
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Pokmon Battle Revolution -- the first appearance of Pikachu & Friends at the Wii console -- made 
 me think: Is Nintendo a backyard game enterprise? How could they make one of their biggest franchises 
 (probably the most famous one) reach that point?
  
  It has a simple battle engine which has been used for years in the N64 and GCN. OK, what were you 
 expecting? This is Pokmon, battles must keep this way.
  
  Well, I battled a guy whose Pidgey could use Aeroblast! What do you say about this? That's life, 
 homie. It's cheating or being cheated. And it'll keep that way until Nintendo find a way to avoid 
 "genetically modified" pokmons for being used OR cheating softwares developers give up on it. 
 I mean, you won't live to see this happening.
  
  But... But... Pokmons are all weird on this game! Bingo! You've finally reached the main point!
 
  
  Amazing battle arenas, nice menu animations and beautifully designed characters, but pokmons should 
 stay inside their pokballs. The great look of the arenas and the pokmon trainers contrast with 
 horribly designed pokmons.
  
  Firstly, some pokmons look OK, like Haunter, Lucario and a couple others. On the other hand, pokmons 
 like Suicune, Sceptile and Venusaur look stupid. Look at Venusaur and Sceptile's leaves! They're 
 thin like paper and they definitely don't look like leaves. It seems like amateurs have designed 
 them.
  
  Take it easy man, how do you expect them to make beautiful arenas, characters and pokmons? There 
 are almost 500! And they... Shut up, fool! They should have made better pokmons! The pretty arenas 
 just make pokmons to look even worse. If the game were called ARENA Battle Revolution, it would 
 surely be the best game ever! But is its name Arena Battle Revolution? No! It's POKMON Battle 
 Revolution! The focus of the game are the God damn pokmons! Now shut the hell up and let me keep 
 the review!
  
  Where did I stop? Oh, in the ugliest pokmons ever.
  
  OK, secondly, they have few movements. Each pokmon has only one movement for ATK moves, one for 
 SP. ATK moves and one for status moves. Usually, one of them is used as stand-by movement. They 
 keep moving like that while you choose what you're going to do next (if "Incinerate the game disc 
 inside the Wii and then use the ashes to clean internal Wii parts" were an available option, that's 
 what the pokball cursor would point on my TV) .
  
  Thirdly, the attacks and moves animations are horrible. I just can't describe them.
  
  Actually, 
 I don't remember any other bad points of the game, 'cause I haven't played it for months. But I 
 don't remember of any good point as well.
  
  Anyway, I assure you that the good points cannot hide the bad ones. Nintendo couldn't have chosen 
 a worse game to be the first one with the WFC multi player game mode.
  
  Take note of this: Pokmon's place is on small cartridges for the DS and the next Nintendo's portable 
 console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spacepirate58
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunately, this game is not as amazing as the videos released show. I got this game as my first 
 non-Wii Sports game, and expected a game full of things I could do for fun. The fun might have 
 lasted, but only as long as a regular period to rent the game.
  
  The pokemon are 3D, which is sweet, but attacks on opponent teams are often repeated by multiple 
 characters, involving the attack picture and the pokemon walking forward like all it's other attacks.
 
  
  The single player mode involves battling other pokemon trainers. Yep. About it. You can get poke 
 coupons from this to fund for clothes for your trainer. Unfortunately, this whole thing is purposeless.
 
  
  I moved to the online play. I thought that would be interesting, my first Wi-Fi experience after 
 all was this game, but the other trainers online either had hacked versions of their pokemon, such 
 as all shiny, or everything being a legendary pokemon, which are completely taboo. I simply cannot 
 have fun if others have main ideas involving ruining the experience of online gaming.
  
  One positive giving this less than a totally useless grade is the fact that mystery gift is used, 
 giving Pokemon Diamond and Pearl owners secret rare pokemon or hard to find items such as dawn 
 and dusk stones.
  
  If you don't own either DS game, though, this game is less than useful. It is like video game spam 
 to you. Maybe about the same level as a movie-marketing tie-in. If you do own the game, though, 
 a rent is about as much as you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioLinkGenofa
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 10, 2009 5:28 pm PT
Review:  It sucks... in words that i can not describe on gamespot for horendous censors! Stupid censors... 
 Anyways let me start over from the beggining...
  Nothing says fun to kids like people forcing kids into child labor, then using animal cruelty, 
 then using animal violence, then ddrug usage, gambling, animal trading... basicly slave trading 
 i suppose, a redundent story, do i have to go any further? Well it became a hit because it was 
 innovative for making a team different from anyone elses, battles (kinda) and a few other things 
 im to lazy to describe! most console pokemon games are bad, but the minigames make it a solid rental, 
 that was the N64, the Gamecube made a great step and an impressive improvement then it got bad 
 again in XD. So we have stadium 1and 2, and XD bad and collesium good, anyway lets review this.
 
  
  
  
  Graphics- Like in-between 64 and Gamecube mainly 64, that bad image on wii... reallybad image. 
 1/10 
  
  Music- It is as good as Sonic chronicles, only with an annoying annocer that makes me want o break 
 the game in half... faster then i already wanted to. All songs are an annoying pile of crap!! They 
 are an insult to nintendo and tehir famous songs of gaming. 1/10
  
  Ds to wii connection- It Screwed up my DS! Now it changes colors goes blue! Turns yellow, has a 
 lower battery, and is just annoying!!! -349684347/10
  
  Gameplay- taking out the rpgs elements and just keeping the battles... that is what ruins RPG element 
 games. Thats horrendous 1/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Resimaniac
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 12:12 am PT
Review:  I categorize Battle Revolution as an expansion pack for Diamond and Pearl. It's price is very high 
 for the included options ($50) 
  
  Graphics: [7/10]
  - Nice Graphics, but they could have been much more better:
  - Some pokemon Recycled from previous 
 games
  - Some pokemon like Dustox and Graveler are poor detailed
  - Trainers and Attacks are good designed
  
  Gameplay: [6.5/10]
  - Battles are more Realistic
 
  - You can store your team from pokemon Diamond and Pearl
  - Without Diamond and Pearl on Nintendo DS you can't do much
  - You cannot make your own team 
 through the game like Stadium games.
  
  Online: [9.5/10]
  - Online works very good
  - You can share friend passes when the battle is over. This is good If you don't have Nintendo 
 DS (Diamond and Pearl)
  - It needs more options 
  
  OVERALL: [7.5/10]
  
  GOOD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: papermariofan57
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Revolution is a not the best game ever. It has it good points, but I don't recommend anyone 
 to play it. If your a wi-fi fan, then buy it.
  
  Let's start with the good things. This game has excellent graphics in each stage. Is one of the 
 best pokemon games that has very good graphics. Is also the first game with the wi-fi system. You 
 can exchange your pokemon''s from diamond and pearl and translate them to this game. Thats the 
 only way to have your own pokemon, but you could use the pokemon that this game have.
  
  Now let's talk about the bad things. First of all, this games doesn't have a common storyline like 
 the previous games, Pokemon Colosseum and Pokemon XD Gale of Darkness had. The battle system is 
 also very difficult. To beat a stadium or colosseum you need to have very good tactics and very 
 good pokemon so u can manage to beat them. Without a storyline, it makes the game very bored.
 
  
  I think this game is not the best in the wii system. This game could have been better if a storyline 
 was added. Everything is difficult, opponents, colosseums, stadiums, etc. I really didn't liked 
 it, I don't recommend to anyone, unless your a wi-fi fan. I will give a 3.5 of 10. Is not the best 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoNin360
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  When this game first came out, I was hoping (and thought) it was a new Pokemon game with a story 
 and everything (like XD and Colosseum) But no it was just a cheap little game with a very short 
 little thing where you can battle with 6 random pokemon throughout.
  
  The only thing you can really do is transfer some of your Pokemon from D&P and play against people 
 online. But why do that when you can already battle people on the DS over Nintendo Wifi? Sure it 
 looks a little better and everything but it is not worth it. It's just a cheap little game to add 
 to your D or P. Actually no. 
  
  It's not cheap. This game is also $50.. the full price for a Wii game. Sure it's the first Wii 
 game to introduce online play, but it's not that fun. It is kinda cool to see your pokemon from 
 the DS in action on the big screen, but that's about it. With a few smaller features a found this 
 game to be a total disapointment.
  
  Graphics: 9\10- Good graphics
  
  Sound: 8\10- Ok but the announcer can be annoying and the music a little cheesy.
  
  Gameplay: 
 2\10- this doesn't include online stuff
  
  Multiplayer: 6\10- self explanatory
  
  Value: 3\10- Again not worth the money, and a game I rarely go back to play. It's catching all 
 that dust on my shelf though.
  
  Overall: 5\10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cat2red
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 7:15 am PT
Review:  On a southern island rests the pokemon theme park poketopia where pokemon trainers come from all 
 over to test their skills at pokemon battling. Ten different colosseums are spread across poketopia 
 waiting to challenge you with their own uniqe rules. If you have the mettle to conquer them all 
 you will meet the best, the bightest, the strongest trainer of all - the poketopia master.
  At the reception desk, the receptionest ms. anna will give you a tour of the colosseum mode menu. 
 You can go right into the Battle function, but it might notbe a bad idea to check out the storage 
 function to copy your pokemon from pokemon diamond or/and pokemon pearl, or register your birthday 
 and intro in the profile function. Give all of the functions a try to get the hang of the game 
 and check out the tutorial mode to find out how to battle and then go to your first colosseum gatway 
 coloseum. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ice_hole
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Battle Revolution was a game i was looking forward to, and after a graphical start the 
 game looked promising. Despite the long "intro for dummies" i stuck with it and attempted my first 
 battle.
  
  Graphics was awesome, the high detail to pokemon, attacks, trainers looked deserving of a long 
 life inside the wii. Unfortunately the gameplay is far too repetitive with really badly 'attack 
 intros' and 'damage cut senses'. Even the commentator only a limited amount of saying which grew 
 tiresome very quickly. After my 6 battles i knew almost everything the commentator was going to 
 say. I'm sorry for all the Pokemon Battle Revolution fans out there, but as a pokemon fan myself 
 - grown up with it - this game is a total let down from what it COULD BE. It's just a really bad 
 gameboy version, striped the good parts (wild pokemon, items, people, storyline)
  
  A wireless wiimote and nunchuck, I'm pretty sure a hybrid RPG/speed based battle game would have 
 been such a better wii game. They have the graphics right, but a good game isn't just about the 
 graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brinn98
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  its a pretty cool game but it does get sort off boring it should have a adventure mode with a story 
 line were you get to walk around not just fight but really cool graphics and eazy i compleated 
 in 2 days only neon and this angint one is hard but dumb that you cant get pokemon from it set 
 from picachu elitrovive and magmorvator you should be able to steal pokemon like pokemon golasem 
 i thoght it would be like that but it isntbut the picachu is really cool and that you get to make 
 your caricter. battels on it are fun please rate but now i think its booring but cool at the same 
 time i think if you whant to buy this game wait a while till its like 50 dollors in stead of 80 
 to 150 but dony=t buy this game if you dont have dimond or pearl cause you will hate this game 
 but this web site is hard you have to do 800 word to put it in wow but this is only my opinion 
 and go kiwis new zealand 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendonoob
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 30, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  This game really did not live up to its hype. I expected a nice threequel to Pokemon Stadium 1 
 and 2 but it was much more different. If you dont have Pokemon Diamond or PEARL, all you can really 
 do is battle and give your player some new clothes. And in this game you cant chose 6 different 
 pokemon like you could with stadium 1 and 2. Buuut you can make custum passes but again you need 
 Diamond/Pearl. The colloseums arent so good/fun either. The attacks though are very cool too just 
 like the graphics. Other than that this game is baaad! If you are not a pokemon fan please do not 
 get this game. If you are a fan like me its worth a shot. The voice like the person who says the 
 stuff is pretty good and much better than games stadium 1 and 2. After you win a coliseum you get 
 modest prizes and if it your first time beating a certain coliseum youll get extra the stuff, so 
 you can watch out for the prizes. So if you out there looking for a game think twice before you 
 probably get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: panpet
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2008 3:41 am PT
Review:  I love this game. It is 3D, it is so real!! Be sure to chose Nate (the boy) , not Dawn (the girl) . 
 The boy is Sinnoh Trainer but the girl has Hoen Trainer. The battle it is like the classic Pokemon 
 battles but the moves of the pokemon are amazing!!!! Monferno's Fire Punch, Pringplup's Water Pluse 
 and more. Pokemon Battle Revolution is a game that you fight Pokemon on Coloseums. Thats bad. I 
 wanted it to be a game like diamond and pearl (Walk, not only battle) . You can dress up you character. 
 You can do him/her a Pikachu fan) and in the game you battle Leaders of Coloseums .In the game you 
 win medals. You can buy hair, cap, shirt, trousers, medals, bags, TMs, HMs and more. Well this 
 game is too short. I Like the Legend of Zelda better but this game is Amazing.
  
  Thanks for reading!!!
  By Panpet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opalpikachu13
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  Ah yes. Pokemon Battle Revolution. Everyone has dreamed of having a "Stadium 3" with their new 
 Pokemon from newer generations. This kinda didn't live to that though. Here's what I have to say 
 of it..
  
  Well, first of all, the only thing you do in PBR is battle. No mini games, no big screen playback 
 of Diamond or Pearl.. just battling. And customizing your trainer and battle cards are like the 
 only thing not involving you battle.. which is sad really. And worst of all, you DO need Pokemon 
 Diamond and Pearl to actually have fun with this game. 
  
  Unlike Stadium's choices of Rental Pokemon, which were like almost the whole list of Pokemon except 
 for major legendaries (like Lugia, Mewtwo, Ho-oh, didn't mention Mew or Celebi because on Stadium 
 1 and 2 you can unlock them) , and were quite decent, Battle Revolution doesn't give you a choice 
 of rentals at all, the rental cards aren't that good.. you do later on get to trade rentals with 
 in game trainers after you beat what they've used.. but they still aren't good. You wouldn't want 
 to go on Wi-Fi with a Card with Rental Pokemon either. 
  
  Well, the only good points this had was actually making your own trainer besides looking like the 
 same generic male/female trainer as everyone else, getting the Promotional event Pikachu, Electivire, 
 and Magmortar on your D/P game (If you have it) , and battling with your Pokemon in 3D (hence that 
 you have D/P and a DS) , other than that, PBR isn't that worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffmotorsports51
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 20, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game about the time it was released last year. I enjoyed it the first few battles, 
 but over time the game got worse. The battles got so boring that I literally wanted to quit, and 
 never use this game again. The announcer is extremely annoying. I turned him off once, and for 
 all. Thank goodness I never listened to him again. The battles on the first playthrough to me were 
 really easy. I literally smoked the competition. The battles on the second playthrough were really 
 hard. I think Mysterial, the last Pokemon trainer is practically impossible to beat. I was able 
 to beat him, but only with cheats from Diamond, and Pearl. There is no story mode in this game. 
 You can't play handheld games on TV, like you could in Stadium. So, what I am trying to say is 
 avoid playing this game, it's really bad. Overall, mediocre Pokemon game, no story, no ability 
 to play handheld on TV, battles get boring quickly, not much to do in this game. If you like Pokemon 
 games, DO NOT get this, because it will only tick you off! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alapalolee
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  I was really, really, looking forward to buying this game. it got very boring fast, through just 
 doing Pokemon battles, and nothing else. Still, it helps you appreciate the other hand held Pokemon 
 games. Basically, all you do is battle, which might sound fun, but it gets boring FAST! If there 
 ever was such a thing as a companion game, than this is it. It centers around Pokemon diamond and 
 pearl, giving little leftovers to people who don't have those games. At one point, I was in denial 
 about this game being very bad, for I waited so long for it to come out. Still, it gets pretty 
 clear how much it reeks after playing with the same Pokemon over, and over, and over again with 
 no experience points. Its fun for about thirty minutes to one hour, so go to a friend's house to 
 play if your really interested, instead of wasting $50 for awesome graphics and nothing else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elpme
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  Ive followed the game from the first pokemon game out on gameboy and ive never been more dissapointed 
 in a game in my life. Due too the boring repeatative of the battling they could of put more effort 
 in the game made the pokemon move around abit more rather than keep the old stand still turn system 
 hell i might of apprectiated more if ya could at least have a little storyline in it, to make it 
 appealin to not only pokemon fans but people new to the game but instead there running off pokemon 
 D & P to much so all in all i wouldent even recommend it to the motherinlaw for a joke. The only 
 good thing you get out of it you can get 2 pokemon through passwords and 1 for completing the game 
 the online play aint that bad but would be nice for more communication also some sort of ranking 
 system.
  Acquiring items for pokemon D & P is alot more easier but my personal feeling on the game is that 
 they really needed to pull away from pokemon D & P abit more and try some new ideas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LK9988
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  I still find this game a nice addition to the wii game liabary but take heed to my warning: DO. 
 NOT. BUY. THIS. GAME. IF. YOU. DO. NOT. HAVE. DIAMOND. OR. PEARL!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! but that's only 
 if you don't have one of those games. If you do and have a good internet connection, this game 
 is highly recommended to any pokemon fan. What I thought was worst about this game was that it 
 was completley lacking depth. When you complete the "story mode" The only thing really left to 
 do is to battle online.
  
  You should not buy this game if you don't have Diamond or Pearl because Then you would only have 
 2 of the weakest pokemon parties imaginable and you would have to do every battle with them (even 
 online!)
  
  Anyway, Here's the summing up:
  
  Graphics: WOW! just... wow. 10/10
  
  Gameplay: Like other pokemon games, This one is all about doing turn-based battles using your caught 
 pokemon. Just that, on this one it has several twists like CC (completley customiseable) trainers 
 from how they look like to what quotes they say, The different battle stages have different rules, 
 online battles and much more. The only problem is that like most of the game, It's lacking depth. 
 8/10
  
  Story: The only bit of story in this game is at the start. You're a trainer from a land far, far 
 away and you've taken you're time to visit Poketopia (basically a pokemon version of Las Vegas) . 
 But wait there's more, Master trainers from all over the world battle it out here and you choose 
 your pokemon team and decide to join them. That's basically all there is to it. 7/10
  
  Sound: Like graphics, The sound is completley amazing. 9/10
  
  Music: Same as sound. 9/10
 
  
  
  Overall: Apart from lacking in depth in most areas (including online. But I'm just glad there is 
 online) . This game is recommendended to anyone who has pokemon Diamond or Pearl! 7.5/10 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwolfyboy
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 10, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Battle Revoultion is the newest in the series that has followed in Pokemon Stadium Games, but follows 
 short. There are many reasons why this game does less than amaze. First, unless you have a copy 
 of the DS and Diamond and pearl, this game is dead. This is because if you have the DS and game, 
 you can use your Ds Pokemon on the Wii. If you don't, you get crappy rental Pokemon that can't 
 even level up! There is no way to get other Pokemon without and DS and maybe Pokemon Ranch. The 
 battles are stupid looking, characters have no emotion, more like a Street fighter game, replaced 
 with a crappy rental system. It's like the devolpers decided to forget the other 484 Pokemon, and 
 just make us buy both games. It makes PBR look like a TV expansion pack for the Ds game. Retarded? No 
 Insanely Stupid? Definite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 2:05 am PT
Review:  In the game you get all the pokemon from Diamond and Pearl and you use them to battle trainers 
 that have the same level of there pokemon that is the highest of yours. The Gameplay sucks. There 
 is no story to it. The game is hard. You get points when you beat a tourney and you can buy clothes 
 and accesorys in the game and you can get some stuff for Diamond and Pearl. The game sucks so bad 
 the only thing good is wifi really.
  
  So the good the Wifi.
  
  The Bad the game sucks poorly.
  
  If you are thinking about getting this game I wouldn't the 
 game sucks so bad it ain't even funny. So this is why I rate this game 1.5 outta 10. If your friends 
 tell you to get the game I wouldn't they are just trying to rip you off. But the fun part is Wifi 
 really so if you are a major Wifi person then get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cHAOSofDIOMEDES
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 17, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  I have been a huge Poke'mon fan since the day the Red and Blue versions came out. Since then, Poke'mon 
 has evolved (haha) to completely new levels. It's not only a game anymore, there's a TV Show Series, 
 Trading Cards, Action Figures, Movies, Stuffed Animals, almost anything you can imagine!! The Diamond 
 and Pearl versions, which are the most recent games to be released on the DS, feature the largest 
 selection of Poke'mon to date (493 total) . Now, if you have given Poke'mon Battle Revolution a 
 bad review, think of it this way: Don't those 2-D battles on the small DS screen get boring after 
 a while? Ever wish you had more trainers to battle or more challenges to overcome? Well PKMN Battle 
 Revolution is the perfect expansion to the Diamond and Pearl games. You can copy your own trained 
 poke'mon to your Wii Console and use them to fight vigorous battles in the various Colosseums through 
 out Poke'topia (that's the name of the area where the game takes place) . Also, if your friends 
 own a DS and a copy of Diamond or Pearl, you and up to 3 friends can wirelessly connect to the 
 Wii Console and dual it out 2 vs 2!!! The graphics are great and the narrations are better than 
 any other previous Stadium-Like game. Plus, you can now customize your trainer! Choose their Hat, 
 Hair, Face, Glasses, Shirt, Gloves, Pants, Shoes, Badges, and Bags!!! It's awesome!!! If there 
 is one series that never bores me, it's Poke'mon, and Battle Revolution only adds to the fun! I 
 can't stress enough how much I recommend this game to all Poke'mon fans! You won't be disappointed 
 ; )
  
  ~cHAOS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peppita001
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon revolution is a boring video game. I was so exciting when I first started but the more 
 I played, the more it got boring. The video game looks really cool and neat but when I played it, 
 I was so boring. It is also a waste of time and money. I sold the video game after a while and got 
 a new video game instead. I think it could of been better if there is not a lot of battling and 
 more exploring. I know pokemon is mostly about battling other pokemon but I would like to explore 
 a bit, meet new people and battle with more fun. In the video game, when 2 pokemon battle, you 
 press the move you want your pokemon to do. What I want is, where you can do neat things, such 
 as, shaking the wii mote to do a move. It would of been better for me. Pokemon revolution could 
 of been a little more fun for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peach100
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  When I started playing it I liked it. I played it for three days, however, and I got extremely 
 bored of it. 
  
  The battle graphics are funny to watch and I liked how a voice was added into the game telling 
 you what move your Pokemon just used, how much intensity the move just used, etc.
  
  But, that didn't change the fact that I still got bored fast and am still bored of the game to 
 this moment.
  
  The Trainers and the Pokemon that are included into the game are not challenging enough.
  
 
  The Wi-Fi that is provided with the game was probably what kept me playing it two days longer, 
 but even that hasn't peaked my interest to the point of me returning to it.
  
  It deserves the low rating Gamespot has given to it.
  
  I have no desire to play it whatsoever. 
 I would not recommend this game. It's not what I would call "fun". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kirby-fu-
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is great for any Pokemon fan but its probably not the best game if you don't own Diamon 
 of Pearl but even if you don't you can still squeeze a fair amount of life out of it.
  
  Graphics-
  Tremendous, nearly some of the best graphics we've seen on the Wii they look and sound 
 great. They never slip up or have any faults throughout.
  
  Gameplay-
  The gameplay in Battle Revolution is smooth and interesting. It may get repetitive but looking 
 at the pokemon and your trainer in 3D like that will keep you transfixed and it'll never get old. 
 Copying Pokemon from diamond of Pearl is just a plus to an already great game. Like being able 
 to use your precious Torterra named Turk (in my case) . The online is great and lagfree and you'll 
 nearly always find a game to play. The "Story" is fun and great pradctice but Battle Revolutions 
 bread and butter is Multiplayer.
  
  Overall a great game that you'll play more than once definitely and will have a blast with fellow 
 Pokemon collectors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  The good: Graphics are decent, sound is way better than the first 3 games combined
  The bad: only fun with Diamond and Pearl, gets repetitive and boring, online multiplayer lacks 
 detail, barely an improvement over the previous 3D Pokemon games
  
  Game-play: 5/10
  Graphics: 7/10
  Sound: 7/10
  Value: 5/10
  Tilt: 4/10
  Average Score: 5.6/10
  
  Over 
 the past few years, The handheld Pokemon games have been regarded as much better than the 3D games. 
 This is an example of that category. With a weak online multiplayer, and fun only with Diamond 
 and Pearl Pokemon Battle Revolution is best for being rented.
  
  The game features new pokemon to play with, such as Lucario, and has a great cast of Pokemon. Still, 
 while the game has its promising features, the amazingness of the strong cast will turn weak thin 
 quickly. The game plays like a remake of Pokemon Stadium rather than a new Pokemon game, and had 
 it been a remake, it would've been much better.
  
  Graphically, the game doesn't look half bad, but it's not as detailed as even the first Pokemon 
 Stadium. The quality of the sound is questionably mixed to generally average, but it feels like 
 a good spot in the Pokemon games, considering is much, much better than before, bt lacks the quality 
 of even the handheld games.
  
  Overall, Pokemon Battle Revolution should've been a remake of Pokemon Stadium instead of an actual 
 game, and it's weak online multiplayer seriously shadows over it. If you liked all the Pokemon 
 games, you can take a crack at this game. But if you want a Pokemon game with seriously more detail, 
 you might not want to reccomend this then.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stargui
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 5:37 am PT
Review:  Pokmon Battle Revolution is a great add to the Wii, if you have Diamond/Pearl for DS, because 
 otherwise you could only play it with pre-set rental teams, and this SUCKS!!!
  Even with that, it has a great online to-do things, an if you have D/P, this game would totally 
 rock, but in my opinion, there are few colosseums for you to play, and a few of these few are regular, 
 I mean, old-school, that's the most famous style.
  The trainer customization is another cool feature, but it's only cool in the beginning, later it 
 sucks, like the rest of the game.
  
  My rating: 7, Why? Here: (I rate like Gamespot, except that tilt is price, if it's worth buying 
 or not)
  
  Gameplay: 8/10 - Many modes of playing, which are great if you like battling all the day.
  
 
  Audio: 4/10 - Musics ARE nostalgic and old-school.
  
  Graphics: 10/10 - 3D graphics are really outstanding.
  
  Value: 6.5/10 - The games that are 
 new always begin in an amazing form, but then they become boring for various reasons.
  
  Price: 7.5/10 - If you really like battling all the day, of course it's yes, but if you don't, 
 this can distract you for a few hours.
  
  Total (average) : 7.2 - Got down to 7 because i prefer extracting 0.2 than adding 0.3
  
  If 
 you agree/disagree message me in Gamespot telling why. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fryboy715
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Battle Revolution is a game that gets really boring quickly because of its repetitiveness. 
 The game is pretty easy, but online, it doesn't give you any help or anything. Another big thing 
 is that the Pokemon battles don't seem that amazing, I mean, its the first POKEMON game for the 
 newest Nintendo game console. It should be a little less good than Mario Galaxy, I mean, Mario 
 is a classic, and same with Pokemon, so they should have made the game better. Another thing is 
 that the game is really quite similar to Pokemon Diamond and Pearl. If you have one of those games 
 for the DS, there is really no point in buying this game. A good thing about the game is that it 
 is very colorful and fun, but it gets old very, very, very quickly. This would be a good first 
 game for a longtime Pokemon fan who hasn't played Diamond or Pearl, but all in all, it isn't that 
 great of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smojus
Rating: 7
Date: May 21, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Although this game includes the fourth installment of the pokemon series it lacks a couple of things 
 like weeellll for starters there is'nt any story line.....
  But this game is decent ike i said anyways here are the positivs and the negatives.
  
  
  
 Positives=] :
  You can actually battle people without a friend code, Thanks God!
  this game has moderately amusing challenges like the baby pokemon league
  you can get a magical 
 pikachu that knows surf!
  you can get special berries off of MYSTERY 
  
  Negatives 
 = [:
  NO STORYLINE } = [ ]
  if your a cheapo hacker like me you don't get to have any fun cuz they block off all shiny legendaries 
  .  
  Alright so i have to say get this game if you have the $30.99 and you have everything else and 
 Diamond or Pearl others Don't even rent it.
  
  (P. S.) my time spent playing might be a bit off cuz well i action replayed the hell outta my Diamond 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brambleclaw46
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 4, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  This is just one of those pokemon battle games. Thats all it is nothing else but battle. When i 
 first got it i couldn't to see all me cool pokemon from my diamond game come to life. When i started 
 playing the first battles were to easy my pokemon just killed them in one hit it got a little harder 
 but not by much. Then it has that horrible voice that says what happens in the battle but trys 
 to make it sound amazeing. Like say if Palkia used Spacial Rend the person will say torn a part 
 by Spacial Rend! The only fun part was dressing your person up in different clothes and chooseing 
 what they said when they won, lost (etc.) If you dont have diamond or pearl dont even bother getting 
 this because then you have to use the rental pokemon whitch are all pretty bad.
  Overall unless you like doing nothing but battling you should buy the game if you dont stick with 
 diamond and perarl, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Chozo
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 23, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  I hope this doesn't turn into a rant but I'm afraid it might. To avoid this as long as possible, 
 I'll start with the things in this game that are done right. Pokemon are in 3d. It is a thrill 
 to see all 493 pokemon in 3d doing their thing. The online battle system is also very straightforward 
 and very fluid. The actual battle system is still the same as it has always been. The backgrounds 
 are absolutely gorgeous, especially for Wii graphics. Last but not least, using and connecting 
 your DS to your Wii is easy as pie and it works phenomenally. 
  
  
  
  Now what is wrong with the game? A LOT! Let's start with the pokemon themselves. When you see the 
 surroundings of the battlefield, it gets you thinking that you are in for a visual treat... until 
 your pokemon releases from its pokeball. Then you see 3d pokemon, which is good, but when compared 
 to the backgrounds it looks like a 12 year old animated them. 
  
  
  
  They looks very flat and featureless, almost as if they were told to withhold as much detail as 
 possible. Next are the attack animations. As has always been a problem with the 3d pokemon games, 
 some of the attacks are lame to watch. You use tackle and your pokemon jumps in the direction of 
 you opponent's pokemon and suddenly the opponent's pokemon is hit by, well, nothing and is pushed 
 backward with a painful expression on its face. No contact occurring whatsoever. Some people might 
 say, they did it so the game would seem less violent, but in my argument, the tv show is directed 
 towards children more so than the games and they show contact. Also some of the moves' animations 
 are just plain boring. Visually they are actually gorgeous but when I hear an attack called shockwave, 
 I expect quite a severe looking attack and that is not what you get. 
  
  
  
  Now I will give credit where credit is due, some of the attacks look good and make sense to the 
 nature of the attack. Another thing that bothers me, and this isn't the only game where this occurs 
 but it's the only game I'm talking about right now. I wonder, why is it that my lvl1 Dratini's 
 hyper beam looks exactly like it does when it has become a lvl100 Dragonite? Maybe it is just me, 
 but I feel that the attacks should look more powerful as the pokemon grows more powerful; is this 
 such a strange concept? If you watched the latest pokemon movie you can clearly see a difference 
 in the potency of Lickylicky's hyper beam as opposed to Dialga's. There's one last thing about 
 the battle animations that really gets me mad. Let's say I used hyper beam with my lvl100 Dragonite. 
 It shoots the opponent's pokemon and drains all of its hp. This is what happens: Dragonite uses 
 hyper beam, it hits the opposing pokemon and knocks it to the floor, the opposing pokemon gets 
 up, returns to its original position, then stumbles around dizzily until it falls. Why does this 
 happen!?!?!? Why doesn't it just stay down!?!?!? Who programmed this? I want to slap you! 
  
  
  
  The game's most disappointing shortcoming would have to be the lack of a story mode. 
 That's right, all you do in this game is battle battle battle. We're back to the ways of Pokemon 
 Stadium. So, this game with all of its problems and those couple good things manage a 4 out of 
 10 from me. The lack of story mode take away most points in my book. It keeps four because the 
 game actually works and if you want to battle your friends online, it is great. But for $50 and 
 with all of those shortcomings, I feel a 4 is quite generous.
  
  4/10
  
  -CA
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: leonsnewgroove2
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo helped make allot of POKEMON games, but did Pokemon battle revolution be good enough to 
 sell allot of copies, THE ANSWER IS NOOOOOOOOOOOOO!!!!! They did not even sell over a million copies!! 
 People if I where you don't get it because you won't enjoy it!!! That was a mistake I made. Only 
 complete idiots would buy the game. Okay , lets get to the review!! The battling is quick you can 
 win easily , and you can't enjoy it without a Nintendo Ds ,
  and you need a copy of Diamond and Pearl!!! So the battling deserves a 6/10. 
  Not doing good 
 so far!! Well let's see oh yeah you can get in wi-fi battles, but if you don't have a friend code, 
 you could end up battling random people, and sometimes your wi-fi might be messed up!! wi-fi deserves 
 a 5/10.
  
  
  They ONLY released it for the WII, not a big problem, but alot of people won't be able to enjoy 
 it!!!!! Not allot I can say about the game. Hmm...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PikaPikaboo
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon: Battle Revolution is the first of a series that began with Pokemon Stadium on the Nintendo 
 64. The thing with Battle Revolution is that it only contains a single aspect of the entire Pokemon 
 franchise, the battles. And unfortunately the Pokemon battles alone are quite boring and after 
 only a few moves, already becomes repetitive especially if you lack Pokemon Diamond or Pearl as 
 if you have not already put in the effort to either of the two then the game does not have much 
 going for it.
  
  Pokemon Battle Revolution is set in the island of Poketopia, a place where Pokemon trainers can 
 battle each other to their hearts' content. The best way to acquire the full experience of this 
 game involves interaction with Pokemon Diamond or Pearl on the DS but there are a few other ways 
 to battle. The DS battle mode is the simplest, and in a way, it best exemplifies what this game 
 is all about: making Pokemon fights look cool. Players use their Diamond or Pearl DS games and 
 the DS itself as the controller. This allows two to four players to have a Pokemon throw-down as 
 big, polygonal versions of the pocket monsters do their thing on the TV.
  
  Pokemon Battle Revolution's multiplayer options don't end with local battles as in addition to 
 the local multiplayer options, Battle Revolution can be played online against other players. It's 
 gives you the option to either battle randomly against other trainers or directly challenge another 
 trainer who you have exchanged friend codes with. Heres the draw back, your friend code for Pokemon 
 Battle Revolution isn't the same as the code for the Wii itself. It's not much different from how 
 the DS is used online and Nintendo has stated that it intends on doing the same for any Wii games 
 that go online. It shouldn't be a surprise to anyone however it remains a bit of a hassle.
  
  It's also possible to import Pokemon you've captured in Diamond or Pearl into the Colosseum 
 mode, where you can make yourself a trainer out of a few basic models and battle your way through 
 each different Colosseum. Each victory will gain you a sum of money that can be used to acquire 
 new clothing and accessories for your trainer or trainers. It is also possible to transfer items 
 and information from the game back to your DS such as the mystery items but unfortunately that's 
 the extent of the games ability to send information back to DS. It's recommended that you have 
 a copy of Diamond or Pearl before purchasing Battle Revolution as without at least one of them, 
 your options for this game will be quite limited. For example: In the colosseum mode, you can't 
 build your own trainer from the ground up; instead you have to choose a pre-designed trainer who 
 comes with a set group of pokemon. You can still dress up whichever trainer that you choose, but 
 you're stuck with the Pokemon that came with him/her. Luckily you'll eventually gain access to 
 other trainers that you can trade, but it still remains limited.
  
  Unfortunately despite if you take advantage of the DS connectivity you will still face the core 
 problem of the game, that none of the battles are really involving. You choose which of your Pokemon 
 you'll bring into battle, then you pick one of the four attacks. After that "complicated" procedure 
 is complete all thats left to do is watch the pokemon bash each other. Although this same repetitiveness 
 is in the core game, Battle Revolution is not compensated by progress- Your Pokemon grow stronger, 
 you capture new Pokemon, and the story progresses. In Pokemon Battle Revolution, the battles are 
 an end unto themselves.
  
  The biggest disappointment for this game though is the at best, half-assed job at making the battles 
 and attacks look exciting or fun. Everything, the trainers, arenas, pokemon, ect look good but 
 there is no emotion to the movement, no drama to the action. Sure, some select attacks look flashy 
 and the game manages to make throwing a ball look exciting but majority of the attacks look very 
 plain. To top it off, the trainers look stiff and stagy when they command the pokemon like they 
 are just going through the motions. It's probably best to warn people that there is a at first 
 amusing announcer that quickly turns to irritating but luckily there is a mute for him.
  
  Most would imagine the game to be exciting due to the constant mention of DS connectivity but sadly 
 the entire game is faulted by straight-forwardness and being single minded. Although some may find 
 that seeing the pokemon they spent hours training in 3D good enough reason to buy this game but 
 everyone else; it's even less appealing then a real pokemon game.
  
  Sum Up:
  The game largely favors those who have experience with the franchise, leaving those new to it in 
 the dark to try and enjoy the little given to them.
  
  Good:
  -First online Wii game of the US
  -Extensive use of DS compatibility
  
  Bad:
  -Quickly 
 turns repetitive
  -Battles aren't dynamic
  -bare-boned online support
  -Not much to do for those without Diamond/Pearl
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Graphics: [6/10]
  Sound: [4/10]
  Gameplay: [5/10]
  Controls: [6/10]
  Replay Value: [2/10]
  Overall: 4.6
  
  -Average_Joe
  
  For more Reviews like this, check: 
 http://Wiiniis-United. co. nr 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Impulse_Drive
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 14, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  only buy this game if you want to add to your collection but other than that i suggest you stay 
 away from this game.
  
  the first thing you do when you turn on this game is it asked you which trainer card do you want 
 and you pick one then after that you have the option to play online, purchase clothes, transfer 
 pokemon from your DS game, duel or battle (single player) . 
  
  The online - its very boring, it only has the option of 3 vs. 3 or 4vs. 4 which is a double. it 
 sometime takes forever to find an opponent and if you do he is either using very cheap pokemon 
 or worthless pokemon. And there is also no leaderboard, so you could be battling for hours and 
 days and it would be all for nothing in the end.
  
  Purchasing clothes - you can purchase clothes to dress up your trainer to look pimpin' during a 
 battle.
  
  Transferring pokemon - you can transfer all the pokemon you have on you DS game, if you don't then 
 you are out of luck and are only stuck with the sh**ty pokemon you chose at the start.
  
  Duel - you can play with your friends... 
  
  Battle Colloseum - you can battle your way to 
 the top (can beat the whole thing in a mere 3-4 hours if you have strong pokemon)
  
  ok now if you have experienced all those, what to do next? nothing! that is pretty much the whole 
 game, if you have beat the battle colloseum you have the option to battle online till you drop 
 (which is fun for 1 hour max because it just gets too repetitive) . 
  
  all in all, this game is a waste of time and money. if you do happen to buy it by mistake and want 
 to return it, tell them its defective and get a new one and return the new one the next day and 
 tell them your sister bought it for you for your b-day but you already have it. this worked for 
 me, it should work for you too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiplay1
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  Most everyone, especially Pokemaniacs, did indeed expect a Pokmon game for the Wii; it's pretty 
 obvious that Nintendo would live up to do that. Most were expecting another Coliseum game, or a 
 sequel to the highly populated Pokmon XD: Gale of Darkness, although Nintendo wanted something 
 different, but unfortunately, the mass market did not.
  
  When you start playing, it shows how to play. Not like the screen you always see before playing, 
 but it shows you how to point your Wii remote at the screen and how to play. Ok Nintendo, we aren't 
 stupid, so please, one warning about the wrist strap is enough, but another about how to play Pokmon 
 Battle Revolution?
  
  You have an option for Coliseum mode, which is kind of like where you do everything except DS battles. 
 It starts you out by asking your name. Then it shows you Poketopia and you go to this little counter 
 where this lady shows you what does what.
  
  Here's where the problem comes in. Guess what the story mode is all about? All it's about is getting 
 battle passes, that's it. You can rent a battle pass, and if you win every battle you have to do, 
 you can keep it. After that, then what; really, nothing. Just you are battling other people and 
 nothing more.
  
  There is also an option for Wi-Fi battles, which you still have to use battle passes for those. 
 This is the first Wi-Fi titled game in the US, so this is a first time thing. It connects to the 
 internet either wirelessly or with a purchased LAN adaptor, and then you choose a battle pass. 
 After that, it looks for an opponent anywhere around the world, and then you battle. This is where 
 you will find the most excitement in the game, but not much. It is still just an ordinary battle 
 only your opponent will actually use more strategy.
  
  You can also customize your character on the menu, shop for items, and save your game. There are 
 also still a few other options, but there are no options that will satisfy you. Nintendo fails 
 to live up to it's analogy when it says "Bring your battles to the big screen" as this isn't much 
 more than another Pokmon game that still lives next to your TV.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon-chan
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  I love franchises, I really do, but in every franchise an epic failure must suck the life out of 
 a great series like the leach it is. 
  
  To be honest, the main reason Pokemon Battle Revolution is so disappointing is it just doesn't 
 live up to the stadium series before it, it's supposed to be the next and improve upon what's already 
 there, not take back steps and pretty much for the most part makes an unimpressive venture. 
  
  Don't get me wrong, I love Pokemon, I buy a lot of their games and will continue to do so despite 
 this disappointment, but I'd have to wonder what the heck Nintendo was thinking and why they thought 
 this would be a good idea.
  
  Pokemon Battle Revolution really has no story other than you're a tourist in Poketopia, a place 
 where you're aloud to battle other trainers and get some stuff to send to your game, other than 
 saying that you completed this game, there's really no gratification in playing through this entire 
 game which is all to short and an entire let down. 
  
  That's not to say that the game doesn't have certain merits to it, you get to see your hard trained 
 Pokemon in spiffed out graphics and totally redone moves as well as customizing your own trainer. 
 You can battle other trainers over Wi-Fi but it's just as well to battle them over your DS instead, 
 you'll probably have just as much enjoyment. You can buy things in order to send them to your game 
 and there's also some secret codes that once entered into the game will allow you to send two rare 
 Pokemon to your Diamond or Pearl version. It's most likely though that your patients for this game 
 will run out quickly and you won't want to accomplish any of this, when it came out it was fifty 
 bucks and really not worth the money put into it. 
  
  Kicking it to the masses,
  
  This game really brings nothing new to the Pokemon series and does an embarrassing job for what 
 is considered a next generation game. Suck out all the life, role playing, mini games, and trading 
 capability and you pretty much have Pokemon Battle Revolution.
  
  Graphics: Very well done, it's cool to see your Pokemon's moves tricked out with flare and style, 
 but other than that it's all flash and has no true essence. 
  
  Sound: Quirky and fun, it's appropriate for the title and has that Pokemon feel that we all know 
 and associate with the series.
  
  Playability: the controls are pretty much point and click and there's really no skill involved 
 in battle, its simple really, pick the Pokemon that's going to kick the most butt and you don't 
 have to worry about anything else. I literally beat this game with one Pokemon. A legend, but still, 
 even in the other stadium titles Mewtwo was able to be taken down.
  
  Entertainment: A pretty novelty that lasts all of 20 minutes, after you've explored all there is 
 to be you're really left expecting something more and the game certainly does not deliver to this 
 desire. 
  
  Replay: There are a few codes to get extra stuff for your Pokemon DS games, but other than that, 
 this game has virtually no replay value and is stunningly short, if you took out all the time it 
 took to animate attacks this game could probably be completed in less than an evening's time. 
 
  
  All in all: This game is really for the true Pokemon maniacs that just absolutely must have every 
 game in the series compilation, but other than that, really stay away from this game, its not worth 
 the time or your hard-earned money. Stripped down it's basically battle simulation and leaves a 
 lot to be desired. Hope next game is a hit rather than a miss. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mechashock
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 8, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  i asked for this game for Christmas hoping for an excellent well made game, even fantasizing about 
 a diamond and pearl 3D remake but no it turns out its another Pokemon stadium remake but if thats 
 not enough when i put my Typhlosion on to revolution it turns out the awesome flame on its neck 
 doesn't seem so awesome on revolution i was expecting a well created interesting flame but we get 
 a paper striped pink and yellow its not enough we deserve something better then paper on a 3D game!!! But 
 i suppose it deserves our appreciation on how good the moves look an Dialga and Palkia [looking 
 stunning by the way guys] If i were to buy the sequel [if there is one] it shall have to be a 3D 
 rpg consisting on all the pokemon games yellow-diamond in a storyline morphed game if not i'm disapointed 
 nintendo!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpg_lover_freak
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 10:13 pm PT
Review:  this game can either suck hard or be amazing * how i review 
  
  genre 
  series (if its a sequel)
  overall 
  
  Ok first this game has the most flawless graphics ever 
 you ask for a flamethrower not legging ever I've done so much that all i can say is flawless
  plot ... there is no plot. game play amazing rpg_lover_freak is my name hello anyway i love rpgs 
 but this game is only for the fans of Pokemon and if you have these requirements 
  
  1 you like rpgs (duhh)
  2 you have the pearl/diamond games 
  3 you are not looking for a great 
 plot but instead looking for a great graphic game
  4 if you have good Pokemon 
  
  more importantly this game is easy yet hard have you ever tryed the long lasting 100 battle course ( 
 thats the castle for your info) it is insainly hard i have like probably the most powerful party 
 ever (and some luck too) and i only got to 60 something. moving on the game its self is pretty average 
 for a non-portable system game you go and upload Pokemon you beat more of the game and you end 
 up having fun this game is also the best idea ever to have your DS as a controller while playing 
 tis makes the game better in two ways 1you battle hard people 2 its not a com and they use stupid 
 moves like having a Pokemon use protect then explosion. while with a real person its different 
 they switch more they use actual moves on you. in other words its human. 
  
  genre score 8.5/10.0 (Pokemon stadium 2 is the best 10.0/10.0)
  
  
  series wise its pretty 
 much the same as the very first game (Pokemon stadium) but defiantly the best ideas (the Pokemon 
 battle with your DS thing) only thing i don't like is there is no earl academy that was so huge 
 and useful if you didn't have it in the second series well basically your screwed. only thing different 
 that they could; when i say that i mean if they can cram it in with earls academy is the mini games. 
 fun ok but not incredibly entertaining. 
  
  series score: 7.5/10.0 
  
  as for the overall this is my conclusion:
  
  graphics 10.0/10.0
  game play 9.0/10.0
  tilt 
 7.5/10.0
  value 9.0/10.0
  sound 8.0/10.0 (not great but ok )
  
  this has been made possible by: rpg_lover_freak 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic7777777
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 1, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  The games the same thing over and over again. What would really of made it an awesome game though 
 is if they had made it like pokemon tournament, where you could choose from a list of different 
 pokemon. But it doesn't have that and the only was to do that is to import your pokemon from your 
 DS witch is cool but you can't use you pokemon twice unless you catch two of the same kind and 
 I'm not even sure if you can do that. The graphics though are pretty good. You can see your pokemon 
 battle in 3-D witch is probably one of the coolest things about it. The gameplay is obviously battling. 
 You can customize your character and the accessories are actually pretty cool. Like you can dress 
 your trainer into a pikachu outfit or cool/gangster kind of guy. Overall its and OK game and its 
 really short but you'll have fun in the first few hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaBrownie
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 31, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  It's the same pokemon games, but with no story line at all. If you like battling people unendingly, 
 then this game is for you. The graphics are terrible, and looks more like a Gamecube game. The 
 announcer repeats himself every ten seconds, and only has about five different sayingd throughout 
 the entire game. The replay value is extreamly low, and there is nothing worth playing for after 
 you beat the last stadium. If you dont have a good team in the DS games, then dont buy this at 
 all. You have to use rental passes with lame pokemon with moves that a level 5 pokemon would know. 
 (ex-why is my Shinx at level 50 and still knows tackle and growl?) This game is the second worst 
 in the series (yes Dash, your at the top) Its a lame game all together, and the first twenty minutes 
 of it is teaching players how to point a Wiimote at the flippin tv screen. Thanks, I didn't know 
 before. The only reason this game is worth playing is to see your pokemon in 3D and see their moves 
 come to life. You can use Wi-fi connection to battle anyone playing (rarely anyone) but if it takes 
 forever to read and imput your commands. It's just not worth the price to buy such an empty boring 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eeveefan93
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  Well This Is Like The Pokemon Stadiom Games For Wii! But You Can Costomize Cariters And How There 
 Like! And This Pokemon Game Is Like The 1st Pokemon Game To Costomize Your Chariter! I Did Make 
 Chariters From My Pokemon Siries! It Has Great Graphics, Still You Can Do The Same Old Pokemon 
 Battels In 3D (2D Battles Are Boring)
  I Have To Say That Game Was Addicting To Me When I Got It That I Waited Unpacently For My Wii Turns! 
 And One Day I Have To Send My Wii Back To Nintendo To Check The Power Suply! It Was A Boing Time 
 Till It Came Back! That's How Addicting This Game Is!
  
  What I Like About This Game: Same Old Pokemon, Great 3D Battles, And You Can Costomize Chariters!
 
  
  What I Dislike About This Game: You Can't Battle In The Lagon Colisiom Waile Your Not At Wi-Fi!
 
  
  Therefore This Game Is Addicting For Pokemon Fans Evreywhere! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitchykiz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  This game was... ok. It certainly did change the way of Pokemon battling. But it got very repetative 
 and boring after a while. This is the kind of game that you would be playing while talking on your 
 phone, on the computer, reading and eating a sandwhich at the same time. The wifi battling was 
 surprisingly good and revolutionary on Pokemon games but you would always vs hackers who would 
 be stingy and have a party full of lvl. 100 legendaries. The design your own character was fun 
 and the battle pass design was good to. The make your own catchphrases, to me, was fantastic, iv'e 
 always wanted to do that. The mystery gift to Pokemon Diamond and Pearl was interesting. The surfing 
 Pikachu mystery gift almost made it worth it. The graphics were fantastic and the scenery was beautiful. 
 As Pokemon Stadium players would know you have to put up with the annoying announcer who states 
 the obvious everytime he opens his mouth "what a amazing attack from chimchar" (does like ten damage) . 
 Overall the game is only for hardcore pokemon fans. so if you have never been a big fan, put back 
 on the shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Polo136
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 6, 2008 2:36 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Battle Revolution is a mile off being a revolution, apparently you can improve the graphics, 
 add some new Pokemon and then WALLAH! It's a 'Revolution'. It's very repeatative, and slow, I mean, 
 it is made for li'l kids. The graphics are pretty good for a Wii game but it seems that is the 
 only thing that prevented this game from being mediocre for me. The Pokemon are interesting, but 
 I never was into Pokemon. But I really think they ought to get some good names, I mean, Lickatung? 
 WTF were they thinking? I seriously dont know where this review is going, so how about some rambling? 
 The only Pokemon I found amusing was Monferno but I was pretty bored with him after five Fire Punches 
 which magically do damage when no contact is even made! All the other ones got boring too. I leave 
 you now with this: Serendipity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GammaShard
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  It kinda angers me when a game is so good and your waiting for a sequell but it turns out to be 
 plain crap. well while pokemon battle revolution isnt a sequel it is basically an attachement to 
 the pokemon ds games diamond and pearl. I got diamond a month before revoulution came out and it 
 was the best ds game i ever played with controls so well enginerreed you would think the ds was 
 built just for this game. So it wasnt unlikley that after playing diamond so much that i would 
 be excited to be playing its expansion. I was so looking forward to seeing my group of hardcore 
 monsters brought to life. but no when i played my first match i was like what the f. honestly the 
 battles look more epic on the ds then then they do on my television. My favorite one Dialga has 
 an ultimate move "roar of time" in which cataclysmic events took place and destroyed any planet 
 in the way. but then on revoulution it was just a simple beam that came from his mouth, boring. 
 any way if u like diamond or pearl just dont relliey on revoulution to bring all ur fantasies to 
 life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayergirlkal
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  My little brother's friend has this game and I've watched him play and it just looks so lame and 
 stupid especially since you really need the DS games to enjoy the game. And he has them but he 
 still loses all the time in those really stupid battles!
  
  I was playing pokmon when there was only Blue and Red versions for the game boy color and those 
 were the best and it was all good fun trying to fill up your pokdex and trade and now I don't 
 even get the point of the game!
  
  I prefer the original pokmon the first 150 were the best and as they've started getting more and 
 adding to it the games haven't been as exciting. Gold, Silver, and Cyrstal were/are exciting games 
 but I think since Pokmon has gotten away from the game boy system the games have become crap. 
 Even FireRed and LeafGreen aren't that exciting, because of all the new changes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjhorton25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  The game is amazing it has graphics that look beautiful. The game has cool Wi-Fi. The game play is 
 very good. It has DS battle mode were you can face people on their DS and the same graphics. There 
 is an announcer that says things when you attack the cpu. This game can be played over and over 
 again. You can even copy your pokemon from other pokemon games. this game .The music is wonderful 
 on the boss fights and the normal battles to all the pokemon you use are level 50. This game is 
 a lot like Pearl and Diamond. The custom battle pass is made by you and made of your pokemon. You 
 can choose the pokemon you like best and battle with them on free battle. your best pokemon is the 
 same level as the cpu. If you are pokemon fan this game is for you your family will love this game 
 if they are pokemon fans to. You can play two players in the game you can take turns in double battles. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariosonic91
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 14, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  This is far from a revolution and only lead the pokemon series to take a step back. Pokemon Battle 
 revolution for Wii took the elements out of the pokemon series that made battling fun in the 1st 
 place.
  
  
  Gameplay 6/10: Your goal is simple, to become the greatest pokemon trainer on the island. You go 
 around fighting trainers with a few mixed in events. In past games the presentation of this was 
 acceptable because elements like leveleling up your pokemon or catching more pokemon and many times 
 a good storyline were added in to create a fun RPG style game . However, in this most recent outing, 
 most of those elements have been removed to just leave plain and dull battling. I will admit that 
 this game has 2 impressive features: its the 1st Wii game to have DS connectivity and its the 1st 
 Wii game with online play. With this being said, its only reason to try this game as it cannot 
 stand on its own as a solid game. When you begin you are given random trainer cards with basic 
 pokemon to fight all your battles, you are able to trade and upgrade these rental passes but its 
 not always for the best. With the Ds you can bring all your well trained pokemon from Diamond or 
 Pearl ( whatever version you have) and use them in your own customized pass but this doesnt escape 
 the fact that you will be doing the same thing over and over again. When you clear colleseums, 
 you will earn points as well as unlock more colleseums. Without the Ds, these are praticully pointless. 
 You can buy new accesories to stylize your trainer but this serves as their only use rather than 
 being an extra. Using the Ds makes these points worthwhile as you buy special hard to obtaina items 
 that you may send back to your Ds game. Wi-fi is also nice because you can battle against trainers 
 around the world but only comes to use if you have a DS. Theres just not enough content to keep 
 you interested for long unless your planning to get everything out of Diamond or Pearl.
  
  Graphics 9/10: There are moments when this game can be fun, and it does help that the pokemon look 
 their best during these moments. The colleseums have very nice lighting affects as well as some 
 of the best graphcis seen on the Wii. Many of the pokemon look impressive and so do their attacks. 
 Some pokemon can use some fine tuning but seems to be reasonalbe with the fact that the creators 
 had to bring 493 different creatures to the 3D life as well as hundreds of attacks with much of 
 it looking stunning.
  
  Sound 6/10/ The music is decent with some enjoyable tunes but are usually silenced by attacking 
 sounds, crowds and the announcer talking. The announcer is an interesting addition to the pokemon 
 seires as it really sounds like an event with some emotion, but after a while you'll start thinking 
 in your head maybe he could be quiet now as he gets rather annoying.
  
  With the 2 special features, its at least worth a rent providing a decent experience as well as 
 benifits for the DS versions, but with just the game alone you'll find that isnt the pokemon that 
 many fans fell in love with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer-XZ
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the original generation of Pokemon, and back in the 90's, it ruled the whole 
 damn world. I always had fun playing Pokemon Stadium 1 and 2, and when I first heard of PBR two 
 years back, I had hopes that this would rule, the fact that I enjoyed Diamond/Pearl, and that it 
 had Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection got me excited. When I played it a couple of times, however, the 
 disappointment hit me like a crate of 10,000 cows. First of all, if you DON'T have Pokemon Diamond 
 or Pearl, you're royally screwed to have a worser experience. You see, you're able to transfer 
 Pokemon from D/P into the game, and if you dont have it, you're restricted to a bunch of crappy 
 low-level Pokemon that you don't even get to use. Stadium 1/2 let you choose Pokemon from Generation 
 1 and 2, I do not know why it didn't continue here. And don't even think of trying to win online 
 with them. If you DO have D/P, your fine with the custom character, Single-Player Modes, and Nintendo 
 Wi-Fi for a while, but it quickly gets boring and dull afterwards (C'mon, even the Master Trainer 
 plays like a total n00b, sorry if I sounded annoying from that last sentence, but.... c'mon!) . overall, 
 this is THE worst Pokemon console game I played, I mean it almost makes Pokemon Channel look like 
 The Orange Box , don't even bother looking at the game cover at the store next time... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: janlukky
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  gameplay : ok game to play if you have a DS verson D/P and wi-fi with a few friends it can be great, 
 it is best buying as a bargan game, this is a down right remake of the pokemon stadium games for 
 N64 colloseum battles only , and very short no story if you want a story i suggest pokemon colloseum 
 or XD gale of darkness for GC - great mutiplayer though, i only bought this for its potental that 
 is wi-fi with my team from pokemon DS and being a anime fan
  
  story: there is no story, only duels
  
  sound: i have herd different things about this it has 
 ok music but the anouncer can drive you nutts but without it the game can put you to sleep
  
  overall: the few things i liked about it is the colliseum's different rules and wi-fi, but 
 if you choose to not use your own pokemon that could be a problem or a challenge, if we are to 
 use our own some can get harder but its mostly easy because of our increased stats
  4/5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroidaholic44
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 23, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is broke (not that broke) . No walking, no evolutions, you name it. I mean, BUY YOUR OWN 
 FREAKIN' CLOTHES WITH POKEDOLLARS!?!?!? I Bought it for $50; sold it on ebay and wasted $20. Heck, 
 even the old forum I used to be in thought it sucked (I mean everyone in that forum) . Nintendo, 
 you need better pokemon crap for the Wii, maybe you could make a remake of that game, except with 
 compatibilties with XD, though i really liked how you can use the DS and how you don't need..... 
 well..... nevermind
  
  Though a few things are okay, like when you battle, i kinda feel like i'm there. Wait, cross out 
 that "few" and "a" replace them with "one thing". I'd rather play Crystal half of the time more 
 than this. Yeah it's that bad except for little 6-8 year-olders (they don't have good taste) .
 
  
  The graphics are the same as XD, but this is a few years later which means no excuses. Nintendo 
 is the lowest on graphics. But we'll all remember this game... for it's suckyness 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chazer127
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 21, 2008 2:53 am PT
Review:  Now If you said Pokemon to a Nintendo fan they will tell you about the great games Nintendo made 
 with the little critters over the past 10 or so years so Battle revolution is a bit of a disappointment 
 as it isn't the same as past games in the series.
  
  Im not saying its bad, its just not as good as past games in the series and the only way to get 
 the fullest out of it is getting the DS game Diamond or Pearl, and the on-line play isnt that good 
 either. and if you a level 100 Palikia you will walk through this game like a faster than a cruse 
 missile going 500 mph, there is also no feel of progression after clearing a Colosseum as there 
 are no exploring elements from the portable versions of the games
  
  The good thing is that the graphics are great and you can change your trainer with several pieces 
 of equipment from a black hat to red face-paint.
  
  Overall Battle revolution is not as good as the original games but there were worse ones in the 
 series, Like Pokemon ranger! *gets shot* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mercedes_5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Battle Revolution Review
  
  Pokemon Battle Revolution is the first Pokemon game to be released for the critically acclaimed 
 Nintendo console the 'Wii'. The game was release in the last quarter of 2007 and since then has 
 had fairly average sales that as usual with spinoffs; reflect the sales of the main RPGs quite 
 poorly. The average review score for PBR is currently 55%.
  However, this game's quality is one of great dispute and this makes it all the more interesting 
 to review. There are two main arguments. One is that the game is useless as an actual video game 
 and is a mere accessory to Diamond & Pearl, whereas the other is that all video games are useless 
 without the players understanding and therefore Pokemon Battle Revolution should only be judged 
 on its merits.
  My personal view could be considered 'sitting on the fence' somewhat. I wouldn't really call it 
 that, but I suppose that you can decide for yourself.
  The game starts off with a trainer arriving on the exquisite resort of Poketopia, but this is going 
 to be no relaxing vacation! Hundreds of battles and hours of game play lie ahead of the trainer 
 should they choose to fully complete the game. In usual Pokemon style, it starts off extremely 
 tame, which contrary to popular belief and opinion I feel is probably to lull casual gamers into 
 a false sense of security. The game is obviously easier if you have a solid team to upload from 
 a DS game, but this is not always the case. Battle passes are there for people who don't have Diamond 
 or Pearl, but they aren't always the best, so I can see why some people who bought this game and 
 not the portable titles found it tedious. As for overall difficulty, the game itself is generally 
 easy except for a couple of coliseums near the middle, which again is in usual Pokemon style. Which 
 other games have peak difficulty in the middle of the story rather than the end? Not many, but 
 you've still got to love them. That's the main storyline over with which let's face it has to cater 
 to Nintendo, Pokemon and the Wii's fairly wide target audience ranges. The post-game scenario is 
 very different. Suddenly Poketopia becomes quite challenging even for veteran Pokemon players and 
 then it has its party piece, the WiFi compatibility which you can use to test your skills against 
 random players or against your friends. In this game, the opponent and your own team define the 
 difficulty and you can really start to enjoy this game. However this is not to say that it isn't 
 open to abuse. Hacked and fully uber teams plague the random battle section and can become extremely 
 annoying. I would classify PBR as an easy game for the main story or medium-quite hard for the 
 overall game.
  The storyline is probably the most debated point. The arguments are that it either doesn't have 
 a storyline or that it does have one, but not in the usual sense. I disagree with both really because 
 it is just a game in which you progress by just battling rather than one that actually has a plot. 
 It is a similar case as with the Gran Turismo series. Those games are just racing with no real 
 plot, yet strangely they get double the storyline points in reviews in most cases when compared 
 to Pokemon Battle Revolution. What's going on there then? I personally just treat the game as a 
 direct descendant of the Pokemon Stadium games, but with even more features. I would rate it as 
 N/A for storyline just as I did with Gran Turismo 4, but if I had to put a number on plot related 
 quality it would be between seven and eight.
  Graphically and audibly Pokemon Battle Revolution is more than decent. The graphics are crisp and 
 defined and are best viewed on a medium sized LCD/Plasma TV as they can be really shown off that 
 way without blurring or stretching. The Pokemon are more detailed that previous 3D titles as you 
 would expect and the coliseums look better than ever. The sound is very nice and though it isn't 
 to everyone's satisfaction I feel that the commentator adds to the atmosphere very well with his 
 occasional jokes and sometimes unintentionally when he makes some extremely generic comments! The 
 actual graphics engine used by the games isn't that strong, but Pokemon Battle Revolution really 
 does make the best of what it has. There is also a common complaint about the sound and that is 
 that the Pokemon don't say their cries as they do in the anime, which suggests to me that people 
 still haven't realised the line between the games and the anime. My argument is that Pokemon don't 
 say their names in the games to add a little 'possibility of realism' in contrast to the usually 
 totally unreal feel of the anime, I have never seen a cat go around screaming 'feline, cat, cat' 
 so I don't really expect Rampardos to cry out its name either. Plus, there is the language barrier. 
 
  As for value, the games are indeed full price but I think that they are worth their peanuts. Compared 
 to some of the other Wii titles out there at 39.99, I'd say that Pokemon Battle Revolution fits 
 comfortably in the middle where quality is concerned. However, if this is your first Pokemon game 
 and you don't plan on buying Diamond or Pearl then I suggest you don't buy it. If you have played 
 previous Pokemon titles then it then even if you don't have Diamond or Pearl I'm sure that you'd 
 love it, but as a first and only it wouldn't really stand up and you'd probably just add to its 
 poor reputation, which it really doesn't deserve. As you've probably guessed, this game is a must 
 own for competitive battlers of all skill levels and especially those who like Pokemon purely for 
 that reason.
  Overall, Pokemon battle revolution is a magnificent game that is all too often overlooked. It has 
 its quirks and issues, but the game as a whole is nothing to be ignored. If you love battling and 
 don't really care for a story (Diamond and Pearl's storyline should be enough to satisfy anyway) 
 then you will love this game all the more. Also, Pokemon Stadium lovers will probably like this 
 regardless of their status with the handheld games for its sheer nostalgic value. Unfortunately 
 though, I can't give it an unrealistic score as this is a review for a game and not just a Pokemon 
 game, if it was then maybe I would give it an extremely high score, but it simply doesn't work 
 that way. I do however have the utmost respect for those who score it as a Pokemon game and even 
 those who review it as mediocre video game, I can see where both arguments are coming from but 
 I just can't fully agree with either.
  My official rating of this game is: 74% 
  By Ben Brown
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: litchfieldbears
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 13, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Battle Revolution is an attempt to rekindle the good old days of pokemon stadium 1 & 2. 
 This has lots of pokemon to choose from shore but has no story mode and mini games. when i was 
 playing pokemon stadium on the N64 the story mode was all that i played. and when friends came 
 over, the mini games kept us entertained. This is very far a revolution. the only thing i could 
 think of is that you can now play online, which is no big joy either. The graphics are good at 
 best and the music and commentary just gets really annoying. The sound could have been done better 
 too. what so hard about putting in some real pokemon sounds not. Reeaah. Screech. the animation 
 havent changed either, and for this day and age i expected more.
  If you are a pokemon addict this will satisfy your needs, but yours and yours only. You should 
 get a few hours out of it if you have Diamond and Pearl as well. 
  
  Very UN revolutionary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sugarcandysin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  This game's OK, it's not that bad, but it could be better. Continue reading. =)
  
  Gameplay (7/10)
  OK, it starts with you going to a place called Poketopia. All the good trainers 
 like, go there. All you do is fight, fight, and fight more with your Pokemon Diamond/Pearl game 
 Pokemon copied on your Wii. If you don't have a DS game, that probably just makes everything worse... the 
 wi-fi is awesome, you can actually find an opponent at random but if you don't have Wi-Fi or the 
 DS games, this game's just boring.
  
  Graphics (9/10)
  Nice graphics, it's 3-D and stuff and anime. Pretty good.
  
  Sound (7/10)
  The music isn't 
 really impressive, and the Pokemon cries are basically the same obviously. =P
  
  Value (7/10)
  You shouldn't get this if you don't have Wi-Fi or the DS Pokemon games. It really 
 is just up to you whether you want to buy it or not.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (7/10)
  Nice game with Wi-Fi, but otherwise, it's pretty boring. = (
  
  -TOTAL SCORE- (7.5/10)
  Not 
 the best game in the wrld, but not the worst. The Wi-Fi's awesome, and the graphics are, too. But 
 normal, non-online play is pretty OK, I guess. Get it if you want. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jacobar
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 25, 2007 4:52 am PT
Review:  This new pokemon game was appealing to me because they are very good at making the covers very 
 well, however the gameplay itself was very dissapointing and didn't meet my standards at all!
 
  good feature was that you could download your pokemon from your diamond or pearl! but the bad 
 points, well, i have a few.
  1st the game play does repeat it self quite alot!
  It get boring very easily.
  Finally, there isn't the feature of WiFi play to go against others 
 around the world.
  This game isnt worth the price it is at because of the missing features and the bad play content.
 
  So i give this game a decent score of......
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowtrooper25
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  A little over seven years ago, American Pokfans got their hands on Pokmon Stadium for the Nintendo 
 64. Pokmon Stadium offered players, who had worked hard raising their little Pocket Monsters on 
 the GameBoy, a chance to see their Pokmon duke it out in full 3D combat. It wasn't just a shift 
 to 3D -- Stadium featured a way to play the GameBoy games on the TV, nine Pokmon-themed minigames, 
 picture taking (and printing those pictures as stickers) , four tournaments, the ominous Gym Leader 
 Castle, Pokmon trading, the ability to unlock and download rare or one-of-a-kind Pokmon, and 
 even a fully interactive 3D PokDex.
  
  As the years progressed, the GameCube successors to the franchise added original (albeit limited) 
 RPG storylines on top of the established battle mode. Each console iteration of the Pokmon RPG 
 franchise has offered a number of options in addition to the routine battles -- apparently that all 
 stops here, with Pokmon Battle Revolution. Honestly, we've seen better coming out of Genius Sonority 
 and know that the Pokmon franchise is capable of more. Pokmon Battle Revolution feels like it's 
 taking a giant leap backwards. That's not to say that this game is terrible, but rather that it 
 feels less revolutionary and more antiquated.
  
  Visually, Pokmon Battle Revolution is an attractive game with fairly detailed Pokmon, trainers, 
 and environments. Certainly the game's polygon count can't compete with a game like, say, Crysis, 
 but the overall visual style is warm and inviting (if a bit cutesy) . The colosseums are vibrant 
 and look much like the environments found in the Pokmon anime. Attack animations make nice use 
 of heat distortion, particle effects, reflectivity, etc. For the most part we still get no physical 
 contact between the Pokmon though there are a few exceptions where the illusion of actual contact 
 is given, something that is a welcome change. The trainers are pretty well modeled and animated 
 and add yet more visual depth to the game. Seeing your trainer actually issuing the attack order, 
 yelling and gesturing, adds to the overall look and feel of every battle. Unfortunately, pretty 
 much every trainer you encounter is one of the only six available player models with different 
 clothes thrown on. It would have been nice to see more diversity there so you don't feel like you're 
 battling the same cookie-cutter trainer over and over again.
  
  The audio is fairly solid, but nothing more than we've gotten in games like Pokmon Colosseum. 
 Pokmon still use their ber-compressed screeches from the handheld games, though it doesn't take 
 away much from the overall experience. An announcer provides play-by-play commentary throughout 
 each battle, something new for the franchise. It's a nice touch practically pulled right from the 
 television show but it can get pretty redundant. The lines are repeated fairly often and you may 
 very well hear the same lines of commentary three or four times in just one match. The music is 
 really nothing new, it's mostly the same Pokmon music you've heard many times before. That's not 
 exactly a bad thing as Pokmon game music tends to fairly well composed. The music that is new 
 fits right in with the overall tone of the game.
  
  The actual gameplay is solid, after all, the combat is exactly the same as what you've been getting 
 in Diamond & Pearl. While that ensures that the combat retains its depth, it really lacks much 
 in the way of motivation. The RPG installments (as well as past Stadium-like games) have offered 
 a number of other diversions and rewards to motivate you to keep on playing. About the only real 
 motivator to completing the game (other than simply wanting to beat it) is getting the special, 
 downloadable Surfing Pikachu who's only special because it knows the move Surf. Though you can 
 unlock new clothes and accessories for your trainer by challenging the colosseums multiple times, 
 I personally don't find that to be a big draw.
  
  Don't expect much from Pokmon Battle Revolution's wi-fi either, it's very minimal. Imagine the 
 matchmaking on Mario Kart DS but with almost all the already sparse options stripped away. Essentially 
 you can only choose your battle pass and your preferred locale to do battle in. An opponent is 
 then randomly selected for you. Then you battle. Then you (optionally) swap battle passes. That's 
 it. Though the game does keep track of the number of battles you've participated in, it does not 
 keep a win-loss record, provide leaderboards, or any other form of online statistics tracking. 
 Oh, and your custom sayings -- those won't show up online. Instead you'll just get canned, pre-determined 
 lines of text based on your trainer title. It would have been nice to see more with the first Wi-Fi 
 Connection Wii game; after all, Diamond & Pearl both have more online functionality and less storage 
 space and processing power to work with.
  
  While Pokmon Battle Revolution is certainly not a bad game, it falls very short of being a good 
 game. It seems almost like a really long tech demo. While it's certainly nice to see the Pokmon 
 you've worked so hard to raise in all their 3D splendor, it's also disappointing to see that Nintendo 
 and Genius Sonority didn't do more with such an adaptable franchise. It's also a bit disappointing 
 that if you don't own Diamond and/or Pearl you're really going to be limited in what you can do. 
 In the end, Pokmon Battle Revolution feels like a hurried attempt to get something Pokmon-related 
 onto the Wii as quickly as possible. If you're a hardcore Pokmaniac you may find plenty to love 
 about this game, but if you're a more casual Pokmon fan you're probably better off renting the 
 game first.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: no1nick
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  In this game you will find that you can either copy pokemon from your pokemon diamond or pearl 
 ds games onto the wii or you can use rental cards.
  Problem 1: NO MINIGAMES!.
  Problem 2: Very repetetive
  Problem 3: Rental cards all have bad pokemon
  Problem 4: Too Easy
 
  Problem 5: The Wifi isnt very good for this game
  Problem 6: You beat it too fast and theres nothing to do after
  Problem 7: Every Item Cost TOO 
 MUCH $$$$$$
  
  This game is soo repetetive that i got soo bored with it that it took me 3 months to beat it because 
 the rental cards suck and the computers fight cheap. It looks good because everyone remembers the 
 older ones with minigames and better 2 player, however do not fall for this marketing technique 
 because this game is a total waste of money and should have never been released by Nintendo. But 
 Thats just my opinion.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursemarkChris
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 5, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Like I said i love he graphics in this game , its like they are actually real Pokemon !!! The battling 
 is pretty good , but it could be a little bit more spicy. but other than that the battlings good. 
 the way you can designe your trainer is so mind blowing , you could make yor mii trainer ! i also 
 love the fact that the game has Wi Fi mode where you can play with your friends next door , down 
 the street , around the corner, and across the world !!! This is why i give this game a 9. I give 
 it a 9 because of the amazing graphics . Also the Cool amazing battling. Also the way you can make 
 your very own mii trainer. And lastly but sertainly not least , because of the Wonderful, breath 
 taking Wi Fi mode for battling online. So you better keep tune for my next review , i will be review 
 one peice unlimited adveture and more. so keep reading my reviews . Cause Im out there, and remember 
 whos the best gamer in the world , yeah its me the one and only Curse Mark Chris, the great !!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_tails
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 5:26 am PT
Review:  I remember the old games for the N64, Pokmon Stadium 1 & 2. Those two games worked, because of 
 their new and fresh feeling. Not only if gave players to battle their hard trained Pokmon in full 
 3D, but allowed them to trade through the 64, and even play a l Super Gameboy on their TV screens.
 
  
  Pokmon Battle Revolution, is the latest incarnation of that old Stadium game formula, and frankly, 
 is a formula Nintendo and Game Freak have to go back and re-think. 
  
  The presentation of the game is shabby, and frankly looks like a pretty N64 game, which, as did 
 the Gamecube "Stadium" games.
  
  As for the game, it's just sloppy. The difficulty of the game is poor, and not well thought out. 
 Nintendo did try to mix things up by adding different themed battle into the mix (having you and 
 your opponent pick your Pokmon by chance using both players teams and etc) but instead of adding 
 a new layer to gameplay, just adds frustration. 
  
  There isn't much good things one can say about this game, except some of the battle animations 
 look pretty. Even though this game was made for those who own the DS Pokmon games, it doesn't 
 really make a difference, only you can use your own Pokmon instead of game rentals. 
  
  Even though I did enjoy playing this game, sadly 90% of that enjoyment came from battling with 
 a friend through the DS Battle Mode, where we continuously fought using 6 on 6 teams from our own 
 DS'.
  
  If your a huge mega fan of the DS games, than get it, and prepare to be annoyed. If you can look 
 past the horrible and sloppy presentation, you might actually find some slither of joy in the battling. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jiggaloj
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 11:20 pm PT
Review:  This is one game I wished I hadn't purchased. I loved Pokemon Coliseum and I was hoping this would 
 kind of be the same thing (it kind of is but it just isn't the same) . I admit I was excited when 
 this came out because this was the first Wii wifi game (I think) and pokemon was hot on fire around 
 then. I guess I bought this on impulse not really sure what I bought it for. In my opinion, all 
 this game offers you is the option to watch your match in 3-D and have a couple of battles in different 
 themed parks with some different stipulations. This game is good if you're a huge fan of pokemon. 
 I think you'd have to be nuts about pokemon to get this because it offers basically all the same 
 features Diamond and Pearl offers you (wifi battles, friend matches) . Good thing is you get a free 
 surfing Pikachu out of it (at least that's what I heard) but everybody probably already has one 
 and cloned on D/P and traded it off to someone who doesn't have Battle Revolution. Overall I think 
 you should purchase this game if you desperately want to collect all pokemon things alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  It kind of saddens me to see some of the bad reviews this game has received, when in reality it's 
 not at all bad. 
  It just seems to me some people expected too much.
  Why they did I don't know.
  The main purpose for this style of Pokemon game has always been to 
 bring the Pokemon Battle formula we know and love to a third dimension and it does just that and 
 a fine job of it too.
  
  About the only thing this game lacks that other Pokemon Stadium style games had is minigames, but 
 be honest - does the Wii really need MORE minigames? I don't think so.
  
  The game has a single-player componant in which you take your team of Pokemon and battle against 
 all the trainers on the Island so eventually you can be crowned master. Great fun.
  But naturally the most fun comes from multiplayer, battling the creatures you've spent hours raising 
 in the DS games and putting them in combat in full 3D.
  
  There honestly isn't a whole lot you can say here.
  If you don't like Pokemon, this won't be 
 for you.
  If you expect anything more then a tool to make your battles 3D, you'll be disapointed.
  But 
 those of you who have actually been paying attention to this game, the games in this vain before 
 it - they'll know what to expect - and chances are you'll be fine with what you recieve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlie_bm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Battle Revolution features one thing: Pokemon. And you do one thing with them: battle. In short 
 words, that's what this game is about. But seriously, there are many tastes in the world and I'm 
 going to say why I liked PBR.
  
  First of all, I'm an addicted RPG player, and Pokemon is not an exception from this. I got my pearl 
 version as soon as it was released and played a lot levelling up my party. Where I live, there 
 are few people who own a DS, and I am the only one who owns a Pokemon game. So I could see my party 
 in action only against the CPU rivals. And there is where PBR changes this, different from the 
 online battles of D/P, in PBR the battles are in real time. It feels great when you beat someone 
 with a tough party and greater if you beat them again.
  
  Apart from the battles, the graphics in this game are cool; the colosseums are big and well-detailed. 
 From the bright Gate Colosseum to the smoked-lava colosseum you won't get tired of atmospheres. 
 The music for each one is also good, some with the best Pokemon audio I've ever heard. 
  
  Customising your trainer is also great, perhaps a bit to slow, as you need many battles to buy 
 a pair of pants, but it feels awesome to see your own, personalized trainer.
  
  Pokemon Battle Revolution is a great experience. The online mode never gets bad, and you have plenty 
 modes to spend your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bryancoolboy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  excelent graphics awesome online play but it need a story i mean like go to different colleseums 
 you dont even get to walk around but other than that its a nice game except for the announcer fortunetly 
 his voice can be turned of
  i got this game the first day it came out i was very excited till i got it saw no storyline and 
 it was to easy wifi connection saved the game though also dressing up your character to the game 
 isnt that bad though but its a rent expect for the wifi thats the only reason you should buy it 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erebyssial
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 25, 2008 4:18 am PT
Review:  The Good: Gives more options for Diamond/Pearl owners || Simple Wi-Fi system is nice for competitive 
 Pokemon fans ||
  
  The Bad: Lacks depth in main gameplay || Basically useless without the DS games || Slow paced ||
 
  
  _______________________
  
  Before the actual review, there's something very important you should know if you're considering 
 picking up this game. If you haven't got a copy of Pokemon Diamond or Pearl for the Nintendo DS, 
 Pokemon Battle Revolution's value significantly drops, to the point where it gets boring extremely 
 quickly. Interested in getting into the Pokemon franchise? (Highly recommended) , then buy Pokemon 
 Diamond or Pearl and play the RPG thoroughly then move to this game. This will be explained later 
 on.
  
  Unlike the RPG Games on the Game Boy and DS versions, Pokemon Battle Revolution is simply only 
 the turn based battling mechanics of Pokemon battling, which does require a tactical brain to become 
 good at, but no leveling up, walking around or going through an adventure or storyline. Pretty 
 much all you're doing is going through a number of different stadiums in a step-by-step process, 
 and as you conquer their leaders you progress to a new one.
  
  The start of the game is quite boring. If you are experienced in Pokemon battling, the first couple 
 of challenges are extremely easy and don't entertain much at all. There are a number of stadiums, 
 around 10 I believe, that offer different ways to battle with your Pokemon, whether they're the 
 ones trained and transfered from your DS games, or a Rental Pass offered to be used. Example, one 
 stadium is a simple battling colliseum, then another is done tournament-knockout style, and also 
 fun and more luck-based stadiums such as spinning a wheel to determine which Pokemon you can use 
 for that particular battle. Thankfully, after you finish the first play-through of the game (Defeating 
 all stadiums) , some will have a new difficulty level for you to challenge. Without this, the main 
 game would have had no replay value. After defeating a stadium you receive a certain amount of 
 Battle Points depending on how well you did, which can be used to buy certain items through the 
 Shop feature. 
  
  But the main and most important role of the gameplay as mentioned before - the ability to copy 
 your trained Pokemon from Diamond and Pearl on the DS. The copying process is very simple, all 
 you do is go to a certain menu option, "copy" your DS game data to the game and then any of the 
 Pokemon from the DS versions can easily be used in Battle Revolution. Also, after finishing the 
 first play-through of the game you can receive a special gift from the game to be transfered to 
 your DS game; a special Pikachu with Volt Tackle, which is extremely hard to get, and Surf which 
 is impossible to get otherwise. This leads to, and as I said before, the fact that this game is 
 practically useless and very boring without being able to use your Pokemon from the DS Games. Without 
 it, you have to live with using the lame Rental Passes that the game offers, which doesn't affect 
 the gameplay variations. Overall, the gameplay is pretty good if you like the variety in using 
 your DS Pokemon.
  
  The graphics compared to previous 3D Pokemon games has improved a bit. The interaction between 
 Pokemon while they're fighting is a bit more advanced than previous games, and also the basic graphics 
 and art direction such as particles and character designs is improved.
  
  There are 3 main features which contribute to the games replay value, and for this particular title 
 are very important. Firstly, theres Battling online through Nintendo Wi-Fi: Great feature, it allows 
 you to battle anyone randomly throughout the world online. Very simple process, I've had about 
 30 battles or so online and it only takes maximum 20, maybe 30 seconds for an opponent to be found. 
 Next, theres having the ability to customise your Trainer. As mentioned before, you can earn Battle 
 Points. These can be saved up to purchase gear to customise your Trainer's appearance that appears 
 in all your battles, including online. The other category of items you can buy are items that can 
 be transfered to your DS Pokemon games, including ones that are extremely rare or impossible to 
 get in-game. Finally, there's the harder difficulty level that can be unlocked for all the different 
 stadiums. Most notably, there's the Courtyard Colliseum which is a massive challenge involving 
 a 100-Battle marathon, where when you finish at a certain point you will receive Battle Points 
 which increase the further you go, as well as difficulty which also progressively increases.
  
  Conclusion: If you're a long time player or just a fan of Pokemon in general, this game will 
 appeal a lot more. Being able to use your DS Pokemon gives the game reasonable replay value and 
 without it the game would be really bad and lack serious depth. So, like I said before, it's highly 
 recommended you buy the DS Pokemon games and play them thoroughly so you know if Pokemon is right 
 for you before playing this game. But still, the restriction to no RPG elements like the Gamecube 
 versions, or mini-games like the N64 version lets this game down quite a lot. I hope they make 
 a follow up type game with more options in the future.
  
  Overall score: 69 / 100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShockerX01
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  First few days I got it, it was good. But after awhile, I realized how much the game lacks. The 
 game is still good to buy specifically because of wifi capabilities. (and being the first on the 
 Wii)
  
  While the graphics on the game are enhanced and some pokemon are looking better than the past 3-D 
 pokemon games, but there are alot of graphical errors which feels like the makers of the game did 
 not put MUCH effort, if any. And pokemon using physical moves, actually hits the pokemon with said 
 moves so is a small plus.
  
  Single player aspect is fine, but there is no storyline content. Just strictly straight to battling 
 against trainers then against "arena leaders." As you progress and beating trainers, you'll have 
 access to more trainer cards, DS gift transfer choices, and new character clothing. Which is all 
 dandy and fine, but singleplayer is lacking and boring.
  
  As for wifi features, its good. You'll be able to play against any trainers on the globe (I believe) . 
 Tho', there are minor issues, like firewall for example. there are times (or maybe often enough) 
 you'll get d/c'ed and unable to connect to players. The game do track your number of battles, and 
 such, but it does NOT specifically track your victory or loss, which is the HUGE turn off for me.
 
  
  What else is good on Wifi, is that you can battle against friends as well using friend codes. Pokemon 
 PBR uses its own, not the Wii's for a reason. There are 4 save slots on the game and have its own 
 code, so you wouldn't really want all 4 save slots (Have 3, one for myself and 2 brothers) uses 
 the same Wii code. :)
  
  The game have potential to be one of the best Pokemon 3-D game, but it is not. Despite better features 
 and wifi capability, by today's standards, it feel like playing a BETA version of the original 
 pokemon Stadium. So, buy this game ONLY if you have diamond/pearl, and if you have friends to play 
 with or like to play against other trainers around the globe on wifi. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pichuking45
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  this game is much better then any other pokemon game ive played, but im still thinking if this 
 game sux or rox.... i say sulrox .a. k. a. both sux and rox. so absicaly if your looking for a pokemon 
 game for the wii (if your a pokemon fan) , then this is the game for you! and if you are needing 
 help on this game then get pokemon daimond/pearl and transfer your pokemon from daimond or pearl. 
 some pepole have proplems when they need to transfer. and they forget, then they cant transfer. 
 with sux.
  but the rox part is its the newest member to the pokemon family! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooperred
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Battle Revolution is a good game, but I have to say that It's sorta an addition to Diamond 
 and Pearl.
  
  The game's good sides is the transferring Pokemon from D&amp; P and seeing them on the big screen, 
 getting Magmortar and Electrivire with codes from Pokemon. com, getting surfing Pikachu to D&amp; P, 
 and Wi-Fi battles.
  
  The bad sides, the game chooses the Pokemon you get, you can't walk in the game like Pokemon XD 
 or Colosseum, no items are allowed except for holded items, no leveling up/new moves, and it's 
 a little boring after you finish the game.
  
  The buttons, anyways, is smooth, you just aim the Wii remote and click the A button. That's all 
 of the gameplay. The Pokemon do the work.
  
  Graphics: 4 and a half Stars
  
  Gameplay:3 and a half Stars
  
  Motion Usage:1 Star 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackyroberts
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game is pretty much a flop. I hate to say too because i'm a poke fan, but this game sucks. 
 It was cool to see the pokemon in 3D anime but it was only cool until my brother had to go home 
 and take his DS with him, then it just was boring. The story mode (if you want to call it that) 
 is lame and very little to no competition. I basically need just two of my pokemon to win the entire 
 battle, sometime one. This game is a rent, do not buy, You have been warned, but I got to say The 
 Online gameplay is awesome!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroidfan220
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  For me, having Pokemon Diamond and my DS in my pocket when I bought the game epitomized the audience 
 this game serves: people who are absolutely obsessed with getting every last drop of game that 
 Pokemon Diamond and Pearl has to offer. These are the people that celebrated the day they topped 
 300, and then a week later the day they topped 400. You know who I'm talking about. I'm one of 
 them, and if you're reading this review, you might be one of us too.
  The problem is, without having one of those two things, you will only get about 70 battles worth 
 of fun out of the game, and the reward you get for finishing will mean nothing to you. I won't 
 ruin the surprise, but it's cute, yellow, and has a surfboard. Anyway, stay away if you don't have 
 Diamond or Pearl. Make that investment first if you really want to, but wait a while and train 
 through, or else you'll be no better off. However, if you have Diamond or Pearl, this game rocks! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KAKAZI_jp
Rating: 1.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game for my Wii, I had assumed it would deliver the same addictive gameplay 
 that is found in Pokemon Diamond and Pearl. But it was nothing like D/P.
  The only reason why someone would buy Battle Revolution is to see their Pokemon duke it out over 
 Wi-fi in 3D. That's it. There is no entertaining story mode, and you have to use rental Pokemon 
 if you don't import your little beasts from D/P. No, you can't go out looking like a fool in the 
 tall grass, like most of us enjoy.
  This is the same game that you saw on your old GameCube all those years ago. They just fine-tuned 
 the graphics and injected the new character models. It's all the same, and Nintendo certainly could 
 have done better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostRider799
Rating: 1.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is repetitive. It's worse than the Pokemon Stadium games. Hell, its a lot worse. The 
 only thing that makes it worth playing is looking at Pokemon from D/P in 3-D.
  The only thing good about it is the sound quality. The learning curve is easy, just point at what 
 you want to do. However, its not worth watching little Pokemon walk up to each other and see teeth 
 flash up at the top of the screen. This is the Wii's biggest disappointment to date. Which is exactly 
 why i have 3 words to close this review with: Guitar Hero 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxx12381
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 7, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  When PBR first came out, i was so excited. i called four different Game Stops before i found some. 
 In the begining, you pretty much have to figure out everything for your-self. the receptionist 
 helps a little but doesent get into much detail (the more you play the game, the sicker you get 
 of looking at her) . Anyway, the game is alot easier in the beggining if you transfer your pokemon 
 right off the bat. but as the game progresses, you find that your hacked shiny EV trained Darkri 
 isnt gona be good enough for your battles anymore. although this game failed in many ways, i have 
 to respect the fact that it forces you to stratisize on how to use your pokemon, instead of using 
 powerhouse pokemon. the game can get very frustrating as it progreses as well. some of the more 
 frustrating times is when you have to borrow pokemon, in stead of yousing your own. i suggest buying 
 this game only if you have ALOT of time and paticients on your hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warcrafted
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 6, 2007 1:16 am PT
Review:  If you have ever played any stadium you can figure out what this game is.. Basicly there are 10 
 main arenas that you can battle through and re battle if you wish... But after the first time through 
 very few will ever make you want to re-battle them. Another note is if you don't own diamond or 
 pearl there is no reason to buy this game. You will be stuck with rental teams that are less then 
 stellar ad all the rewards you can get will be of no use to you
  
  There is only one thing in PBR that is worth any note at all. That would be the WiFi. It is truely 
 the only thing i play it for anymore since you can randomly play with anyone around the world. 
 This is the games only truely fun feature in it. To conclude this game had a lot of promise but 
 fails to deliver. And if you don't own the pokemon D or P there is no reason to even pick up a 
 copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simpsonsfan2
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  I played this with a few friends, and, it wasn't great. The best part of the game is the online 
 mode, but it can get boring at times, especially when you are searching for an opponent, which 
 can sometimes take a while.
  
  The main story is that you go battle computer opponents (in the main mode) , and for winning, you 
 earn points, which you can use to purchase items.
  
  If you don't own a DS and a copy of Diamond or Pearl, then this game will be even more boring then 
 it already is.
  
  The graphics in this are okay, but sometimes look a little sloppy. The Pokemon character models 
 for some Pokemon look different then they do in Diamond or Pearl.
  
  If you want a good Pokemon game, you should get Pokemon Stadium 1 or 2 for the Nintendo 64. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexx88
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Now don't get me wrong I'm a diehard pokemon fanatic but even this wont keep me interested. The 
 only reason I bought it was so I could do some battling online with friends and see my pokemon 
 in 3-d. The sad thing is thats all I got. It isn't 100% Pokemon Stadium because there is nothing 
 else to do but, battle. No minigames. No big payoff. The online is ok except that people just do 
 the sissy way out and use an army of Legendaries to stop you &gt;.&gt;
  The game looks very very good for a Wii game and doesn't disappoint in that aspect. Also customizing 
 your trainer is very fun. The sound in the game is decent with tunes that sounds like they stole 
 it from older pokemon games although the announcer in this game is less annoying and knows whatever 
 pokemon that comes out.
  
  Overall- Basicly if you want to play online anytime you want ,because on Diamond and Peral you 
 must have friends to play online, and you play all the time. Then by all means pick this up but 
 If not pass it..... unless you want the many mystery gift items 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KonohaKakashi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 11:43 pm PT
Review:  I've had this game for a couple months, and it's pretty decent. However, if you don't have the 
 Pokemon RPGs for the DS, Diamond and/or Pearl, then it probably isn't too great of an idea to buy 
 the game. I have the diamond version, so I found this game a pretty nice part of my collection.
 
  
  Gameplay - The battles are just like any Pokemon RPG, so gameplay is great for me. In this game, 
 when a Pokemon uses a physical attack, the Pokemon actually runs up to it's opponent and attacks, 
 unlike Battle Revolution's counterpart, Stadium. However, like Stadium, you fight in different 
 Colloseums, each more difficult than the last. Each Colloseum has it's own unique rules too, so 
 the game gets variety from that.
  You can customize your character in PBR, which is actually rather cool. :P You can buy new outfits 
 like hats, sunglasses, etc. to make your character looks awesome!
  There is one thing that I have to complain about the gameplay, though: there aren't any mini-games. 
 This is actually what kills the 10 rating for this game, in my opinion. Mini-games are amazing, 
 and PBR should have had them.
  
  Graphics - For those of you who think the Wii has bad graphics, take a look at this game before 
 saying something ignorant like that. No Wii game has bad graphics, but the graphics in this game 
 are just magnificent. All the attacks looks amazing and have great battle sequences, notably moves 
 like Dark Pulse and Seismic Toss.
  
  This game has Wi-Fi, of course, so you can battle anyone in the world with PBR. :D
  
  PBR's 
 strongest point, and the point that makes it good, is its relationship with Diamond/Pearl. If you 
 have either of those two games and PBR, you can copy your DS Pokemon over to the Wii and fight 
 PBR's opponents with them! However, there's a catch: PBR won't accept badly hacked Pokemon, like 
 Pokemon with more than 510 EVs and/or abilities they shouldn't have. In PBR, there is also a Mystery 
 Gift shop where you can purchase items to transfer over to your copy of Diamond/Pearl via Mystery 
 Gift by purchasing them first with Poke Coupons (You win those by beating Colloseums) .
  
  Finally, you can also get special Pokemon by doing special things, such as beating all the Colloseums 
 for the first time. I won't spoil what the Pokemon are, but you will love them. ;)
  
  There are more things to know about PBR, but I'll leave that to you, the readers, to find out! 
 Rememebr: This game is only really worth it if you have Diamond or Pearl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerosliver
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  Yes finally, the next Pokemon installment. Which comes back to the classical Stadium series, where 
 battling in 3d is the main part. If u would like a pokemon rpg, go back to Colosseum or the Sucky 
 pokemon XD.
  
  When u got the ds with pokemon diamond or pearl the game is really interesting. I f you havent got 
 a ds and pokemon diamond or pearl, shame on u to buy this games. Its all about the ds and Pokemon 
 Diamond/Pearl.
  The reason why i like this game is because it really adds a fun thing to diamond and pearl. Playing 
 it on a 3d screen.
  
  Of course to make the most out of it, you got to have wifi. Its really easy to own some noobs or 
 have some good battles. Or battle ur friends with ease!
  
  So my Final conclusion:
  If you havent got The Pokemon Games DIamond and Pearl: 5 If you only got Diamond/Pearl: 7.5
  
 IF you got wifi: 10 foru sure
  
  Total rating 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asm607
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  If you have been reading reviews for this game, you'll notice that some are good and some are bad. 
 There is really one factor that will completely decide if you like it or not. If you have Diamond 
 or Pearl, it is fun. If you don't, it is completely lame. This came is really made to be compatible 
 with D/P. It is possible to play it without D/P, but you can only use the 6 rental passes that 
 you are provided with, and that gets boring really fast. On the other hand, if you do have the 
 DS games, you get to use your pokemon from your DS to battle against gyms as well as real people 
 online, which is quite fun. This game is not really comparable with pokemon stadium games for n64 
 though. It lacks all of the fun stuff like mini-games and gymleader castle. Plus you don't have 
 the option to rent almost any pokemon you want for a battle. You're pretty much stuck with the 
 ones you have. For this game, I would say if you are not a big fan of pokemon, or you don't have 
 D/P, don't bother with this game. Otherwise, it may be worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weilongli2003
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game, it was not just because I wanted to try out wi-fi, but also because I liked 
 pokemon. now, after this game, I'm starting to think they should stick to handhelds. I mean, the 
 coliseums (spelling?) were too easy. I mean, sure, my pokemon are all lvl 100, but they should 
 be just as good. But instead, you get a game with AI that does random, idiotic moves, a woman that 
 won't shut up, and gay coliseum types. I mean, who wants to pick pokemon that aren't theirs anyway? 
 Lets hope we don't have to see another PBRR again. Nintendo should have saved wi-fi for something 
 else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrashunreal
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  I'll be the first to tell you that I was one of those Pokemaniacs on the edge of their seats reading 
 all the Previews about Pokemon: BR and absolutely having a fit over it. Everything seemed like 
 it was going to be so well-done and so pumped up for a next gen. release! I had it reserved, and 
 when I finally got it home, I almost cried. My tears of joy quickly turned to tears of anger however. 
 As I should have expected, it follows a very similar formula to the previous Stadium releases... 
 which is bad. Because that means few character animations, the announcer saying the same thing 
 over and over again, and hours and hours of mind-numbingly boring Pokemon battles. I didn't even 
 finish it. Not even nearly. I took it back and traded it in for store credit towards Metroid Prime 
 3. My suggestion: don't get it if you don't want your faith in Nintendo's dedication to the series 
 seriously damaged.
  
  C'mon guys. You KNOW you can do better. PLEASE DO!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Android009
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  This game was the first for a lot of things
  
  First game on the wii to have Wi Fi
  The first pokemon game on the Wii
  The first game to use your ds as a controler
  The first 
 to use your ds on the wii
  
  But it was a failure you start out as a trainer going for the ranke of poketopia Master battling 
 through various stages of trainers to reach the boss fight and when you win you get poketopia cupons 
 and new stages to explore. I have to admit the game looks good but it's the same old pokemon game 
 you played on your Nintendo 64 it just has more stages a diffrent battle system and better graphics 
 other than that its not worth $49.99. The pokemon stay in one place throut pritty much of the battle 
 and it gets boring real boring it would be nice if they moved around the field. Hopefuly if they 
 make an adveture rpg pokemon game for the wii it will make up for Pokemon Battle Revolution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paksiwin
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Now this game is a mixed bag. Some will say this game will not be worth it and some will say it 
 is. Being the Wiis first online game, Pokemon Battle Revolution has a lot to prove to the world 
 whether Nintendo is serious about online or not. Did they succeed? Yes and No.
  
  Yes in the sense if you are a owner of the Nintendo Pokemon Games Diamond and Pearl, you will fully 
 enjoy taking your trained Pokemons and importing it in the game to battle trainers from around 
 the globe. So far this game it the only way to play with random people in the pokemon world (a 
 obvious feature lacking in the handheld games) .
  
  But while it succeeds, it also fails cause the game fills of more of a $50 expansion pack to the 
 DS games. If you dont have a DS, chances are you would want to throw your wii motes in frustrations 
 since you will have a hard time completing coliseums in single players as well as competing with 
 a lot of Uber abuser in online.
  
  So would you buy it or not, depends really on what kind of person you are. Pokemon fans would likely 
 pick this up but if your not, stay away from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umd1998
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 18, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  As someone who isnt a Pokemaniac, the premise of Pokemon Battle Revolution was initially lost 
 on me.
  Then I learned one of the anime fads biggest draws is being able to level-up your pocket monster, 
 developing new skills as it gains experience.
  Yet that vital ability is absent from Revolution. Gamers use six pre-chosen Pokemon to battle 
 through 10 arena tournaments and earn points for winning each championship match. But the points 
 cant be used to improve Pokemon abilities, only to buy clothing for their trainer character -- 
 which does nothing for you in combat.
  Overall, Revolution is pretty much useless, unless youre a Pokemaniac and own Pokemon Diamond 
 or Pearl for the Nintendo DS. The Wii game is nothing more than a $50 expansion pack for its 
 two DS counterparts.
  Heres how it works: Revolution allows Pokemon cultivated by gamers in Diamond or Pearl to 
 be transferred wirelessly to the Wii game and used in battles.
  So at its most basic, Revolution is simply a way for gamers to use their tiny DS-bred Pokemon 
 in big battle arenas on a larger screen than the handheld console provides.
  On its own, Revolution is a good-looking but shallow and repetitive turn-based fighting game.
 
  The graphics are the games best attribute -- its anime theme and attack moves, particularly liquids, 
 are pleasing to the eyes.
  Theres some strategy to fighting, but winning is too easy once you figure out the most-effective 
 attacks.
  Surprisingly, Revolution makes no use of the Wiis motion-sensing controllers. The nunchuk is 
 not needed and the Wiimote can only be used to point and click on menu choices.
  Sure, Revolution can boast about being the Wiis debut of online multiplayer. But you cant battle 
 anyone online unless you exchange yet another set of bothersome friend codes beforehand -- no random 
 battles are allowed.
  Lets face it, anything Pokemon-related is a cash cow, and Nintendo knew Pokemaniacs would flock 
 to buy Revolution the day it came out. And they surely love it.
  But non-fans without the DS games will scratch their heads and wonder what the attraction is, and 
 why Revolution is so brief and threadbare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codezer0
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 17, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Battle Revolution is the latest iteration of the console-based Pokemon battling games. 
 The biggest features that were hyped up for this iteration were the ability to use your DS as a 
 controller and the ability to play online on a (typically) larger TV screen.
  
  Well, for those who were hoping for extensive DS-to-Wii integration, forget it. The mode is only 
 available in two to four player off line battling, and there is no support for this feature anywhere 
 else in the game as far as I could find on my own. It feels like a wasted opportunity for something 
 that could have been so cool. Never mind the fact that the feature requires for each connected 
 DS to have their own Pokemon game cartridge to launch it. It would be nice if there were say a 
 rental pool that users who didn't have their own copies of Pokemon on DS to play with could have 
 used in lieu, or even allow to borrow from the pool of those that you copy/upload, or even a rental 
 pass stable. No such luck there, I'm afraid.
  
  Besides that, there is the Colosseum mode which has you making battle passes (with a matching avatar 
 that you can customize to a degree) and go to different coliseums in the Poketopia island to battle 
 following a different set of themed rules in each. A good number follow relatively typical Pokemon 
 battling conventions, though there is one that follows a traditional tournament, one that employs 
 a round-robin scoring system approach, and one in where you and your opponent's Pokemon are set 
 up in a roulette wheel and you have to (hopefully) land a pokeball on the ones you'd want from 
 the group, or use this as a way of stealing the opponent's good stuff for use against them, and 
 hope they get a team full of suck.
  
  It's all well and good if you're a fan of the Pokemon battling and/or just have to be able to enjoy 
 your critters on the big screen, but in all, the game is very featureless. There is no campaign/story 
 mode like there was (supposed to be) in Colosseum and Pokemon XD on the Nintendo GameCube, and 
 much to relief, the GameCube games will still play on the Wii. You also don't really get to use 
 any items other than the ones that your Pokemon end up holding anyway, which while following with 
 the tradition of the games since Stadium, just feels like an artificial limit. If anything, one 
 should be allowed to use items from the pool of what you had stored like what was possible in the 
 original stadium. But I suppose there is some logic in this, because while the game does allow 
 you to copy your entire list of stored and active Pokemon in the main Colosseum mode for use in 
 the various Colosseum battles, there is no way to copy them back into the game, where the original 
 stadium games were able to do this.
  
  As such, this game focuses solely on the battling segment of the Pokemon game, which is all well 
 and good if you're into that sort of thing. However, there's one thing to note... if any of you 
 are like me and felt that the battling going from generation 3 to 4 became a lot slower (literally... 
 in emerald, even with the battle animations enabled, it still feels faster than playing diamond 
 with them turned off! that's just not right ) , well you're in for some more slowing down of the 
 formula. I simply cannot see why the game keeps being made slower, when it already is basically 
 being setup as a turn-based strategy/rpg. At the very least, how about a turbo mode so that those 
 of us who don't want to wait for things to play out for the umpteenth time can just skip ahead 
 to find out if we won or not. I find myself going half asleep while going through the typical coliseums 
 as a result. Or better yet, how about some real-time battling so that we don't have to sit back 
 and watch them do the same animations over and over again?
  
  The graphics in the game are a mixed bag. The stadiums and the newest Pokemon all look great of 
 course... but you can see that Nintendo blatantly recycled all the previous models they've been 
 using since generation one. Many of those gen1 Pokemon look just as blurry and fuzzy (even with 
 480p) as they first did on Stadium on the n64. Furthermore, the various Pokemon only get the same 
 recycled audio cries that they would have in the DS games. Would it have been too much to ask for 
 some touching up on the Pokemon graphically and maybe the TV/anime voices that they would have 
 instead, Nintendo? The Wii enjoys a full-size dvd for space... and re compressing in mp3 files 
 for audio, it should fit very well with room to spare. It's sloppy to the point of blatant, and 
 completely lazy. They gave us a bonus in Stadium in the form of a talking pikachu if you used a 
 Yellow version GB copy... and never again since. or what about how a surfing pikachu would pull 
 out a board as he rides the attacking wave? Nope.
  
  The Wii remote works as well as expected... but its role is effectively reduced to a pointer for 
 pointing it at the screen to select menu options, and if you choose the sideways control scheme, 
 you'd hardly use it at all save for the roulette wheel selection in the neon Colosseum. So for 
 as advanced as the Wii was with control interfaces, and how Nintendo could have really done something 
 new and intuitive, they instead chose to fall back and give us something ultra-plain for how the 
 game controls. Not surprising, maybe... but unfortunate.
  
  I listed the difficulty as hard not because it's hard to play, but because it almost feels like 
 you have to cheat in the Colosseum mode to win... particularly with the neon Colosseum. Unless 
 you have your timing just right and have the right moves, prepare to have your opponent steal all 
 your best Pokemon and have them mop the floor with your ass again and again. This recurring cheap 
 A. I. borders to the point of frustrating more times than I'd care to mention.
  
  And I just have to add... some may like the announcer because it sounds like the same guy in the 
 tv shows, but I find him to be the most irritating voice, always saying things that would be blatantly 
 obvious over and over again. Coming from other games where the announcers would actually have something 
 interesting to say, this guy borders on the John Madden level of stupidity. Thank god that his 
 voice can be turned off, because I wouldn't have had the tolerance to put up with it long enough 
 to write this review otherwise.
  
  So in summary... ultra-lazy rehash of the same models since the original Stadium. Even less nice, 
 unique touches , or at the least some proper sounds. No campaign mode. Extremely limited DS to 
 Wii functionality (and arbitrary requirements) . Completely vapid trainer avatars with limited (and 
 expensive, considering how many points are required to buy the various things you may want to customize 
 them with) in scope and ability. A total letdown in interface and control. Even slower paced battling, 
 which shouldn't be, considering it's already turn-based to begin with. A cheating A. I., and what 
 has to amount to one of the most irritating announcers I've heard in any game. Ever.
  
  If you absolutely have to have the ability to play online with your tv and be able to earn/buy 
 certain mystery gifts to upload to your DS game, it would be worth at least two rentals to unlock 
 the various modes and then replay them to get the points you need. But it's hard to recommend this 
 game otherwise... I can only hope that the sequel (let's face it, there will be a sequel) , has 
 a proper SP/campaign/quest mode and does more with the Wii-to-DS functionality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZF
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  well where should i start. well if you have a working DS and wi-fi connection it would be cooler 
 then just playing with some random guy dishing it out with random pokemon and fighting other random 
 people (or CPU) with random pokemon also if you have a brother/sister it would be fun to do DS 
 battles and stuff also the battle graphics are awesome better the any other pokemon game though 
 i gave it 8 because i have all the things i mentioned
  it's a great sub if you don't have Diamond/Pearl wi-fi connection so if you have all the things 
 i mentioned 8.5 if not 6.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackhungova
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 9, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  If you are a pokemon fan well this game isn't all that good unless you have: a Nintendo ds, copy 
 of diamond/pearl and after you completed diamond/pearl, pal park to take your other great or not 
 so great pokemon and give more to diamond/pearl so you can fully use battle revolution better.
 
  
  If you don't have any of those requirements for Battle revolution then its no use to you since 
 you can't use the wifi system to its full extend. You can use your ds or wii remote to point attacks 
 but if you use wii remote your opponent from wifi can see your moves. Oh and also if you don't 
 have a wifi signal makes it useless for you since you can't mainly do anything but battle computer 
 players. What you mainly do in this game is you fight players from over the world. If you win you 
 get points so you can buy yourself accessories for your custumizable character. you can use rental 
 pokemon but its not recommended since you can not get points but you can put a loss on your oppenent 
 but the fact you can buy stuff for your character is a nice idea for the game (im a big fan for 
 customizable characters or skills) .
  
  Beware of users with lv 100 pokemon for which they might have cheated on pearl/diamond for they 
 could have used an action replay which will make things tougher for you since you could've worked 
 your ass off training to 100 and the other person got a big shortcut. This ends my review with 
 giving pokemon battle rev a 3 out of 5 in other words i do not recommend this since no rpg, andd 
 all you do is battle i am sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameaddict190
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit.. im a huge pokemon fan but.. not even a true pokemon fan can truely like this 
 game. FIRST some good things about this game even though there are so few...
  - You can copy your pokemon from pokemon diamond and pearl.
  - It's fun making the phrases your 
 person says all during the battle.
  - WiFi
  OKAAAAY now the bad things xD
  - no mini games of any sort like pokemon stadium for nintendo 64.
  - So boring i'd rather stare 
 at a wall instead of playing this game.
  - Renting pokemon on battle passes and not being able to choose them.
  - Not worth the money.
 
  - Theres just nothing... SpEcIaL about it.. just.. the same old same old..
  - music is very annoying (well to ME anyways)
  Sooo the wrap up about this game? DON'T BUY IT 
 there are better games out there for the wii than this one. I hope my review came in handy =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gangstaa9
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 1, 2007 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Where should i start first off the game is just batilling not evan any mini games!!! It's cool 
 that iit shows the pokemon attacking each other but that wares off around the i don't now THE THIRD 
 MOVE. its cool that you can copy pokemon from D+P but buy the time it takes to train the to level 
 50 you'll probally be sick of battiling buy that time so you wont want to do it again. On the plus 
 side um............. o yea you can battel people online and......... and buy stuff from revoltion 
 and trade it over to D+P. Last thing the only way you should get this game is if you have D+P if 
 not the keep you're money and buy them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nag
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 26, 2007 12:17 am PT
Review:  This stupid game, humm I cannot describe this, I just threw it away.. This game tasted the floor 
 many times, I threw it on the middle of the road but cars dodged it because this game su*** freaking 
 ballz ! My brother just asked: God why you putted that s... on the earth . Do not look at the pokemon 
 battle revolution banner or it will blow your mind. May God forgives you and me, for this error 
 of judgement... And time spent is about 2 mins ( the time it took for my Wii to show this s..... 
 title screen!)
  
  P. S: I can't put 0 so that's why it's 1/10
  P. P. S: Minus 5 should have been a good mark for it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adult_Kafei
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 11:22 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you need to know is that you cannot fully enjoy this game without a DS and either 
 Diamond or Pearl. This is part of the reason why people give PBR such low scores, because it is 
 more of an accesory than a full-fleged game. If you do have a DS and Diamond/Pearl, then this game 
 can be quite addicting, especially online mode. Online is entertaining because you can fight with 
 random people from around the world, which is more exciting than just playing against your friends 
 all the time. And single player isn't too bad either. The colloseums have special rules to keep 
 battles from getting too repetitive, so you can get quite a lot of playtime out of the single player 
 mode.
  Now, this game still has its cons, but most of them are mere annoyances than gamplay-ruining flaws. 
 As mentioned above, you need a DS and Diamond/Pearl to trully experience this title. The announcer 
 in this game is terrible. I liked the one in Pokemon Stadium a lot more. Before you do anything 
 else, turn him off.
  You can make custom phrases for your trainer to use in battle. However, these do not carry over 
 to online play, so it kinda destroys the purpose.
  Most of the Pokemon models (except the 4th gen ones) are taken from the previous console games. 
 Most of them have been spruced up, but a few of them look hardly any better than they did on the 
 N64. But otherwise, the graphics are beautiful.
  Finally, the sound. Most of the sound effects, most notably the victory fanfare, are taken from 
 Colloseum and XD. The music however is a wonderful collection of enthusiastic tunes. It'll remind 
 you of Colloseum and XD in a few places, but other than that, it's all original. In closing, if 
 you do not have a copy of Diamond or Pearl, you might not see much in this game. Otherwise, Pokemon 
 Battle Revolution can be a fun way to experience Pokemon in 3D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redfalco
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 19, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  this is really bad no story line no catching pokemon if u dont have WiFi a Ds pokemon Diamond or 
 pearl and if u bought it u bought the worst pokemon game ever if i could i would give this game 
 a 0 not worth getting at all if u have a Wii get Legend of Zelda Twilight Prinsess all though it 
 is not as good as it could be it is FAIR and right now the Wii has really bad games out right now 
 until it gets good games on it dont buy one it is a bore machine and it is a let down 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vivvav
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  Pok&eacute; mon Battle Revolution is NOT good as a videogame itself. As an extension to Diamond 
 and Pearl, it's tons of fun, but it shouldn't be charged the full price for a game.
  The Good:
  Trainer Design: After years of begging, Pok&eacute; mon Trainers finally get what we 
 wanted: To customize our looks. You start out with some default crap, but as the game progresses, 
 you get some good crap. While it still leaves a bit to be desired, the game itself is solid.
  Rendition of the Pok&eacute; mon: Pok&eacute; mon Battle Revolution has great visuals for a Pok&eacute; mon 
 game. The fact that the Pok&eacute; mon are finally shown hitting each other (With a Few Exceptions) 
 is a real improvement, though they could be a little less lazy in creating mmore motions for the 
 Pok&eacute; mon. Which now brings me to the bad:
  The Bad:
  Lack of Story: Pok&eacute; mon Colluseum and Pok&eacute; mon XD: Gale of Darkness had a new story 
 line which gave the Pok&eacute; mon games a whole new feel. Pok&eacute; mon Battle Revolution has 
 no such storyline, and as such, it is unfair of Nintendo and Game Stores to charge you $50.00. 
 It should only be about 20, because it's an extension.
  Overall, I give Pok&eacute; mon Battle Revolution 6.5/10. If you don't mind paying fifty bucks for 
 expanding your Diamon and Pearl experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killermanjaro
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 12, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  I got Pokemon Battle Revolution about a month ago and I have to say, it could have been better.
 
  
  Now, first things first, the game is short. Im not talking about beat it in like a day short. Im 
 talking about beat it in 5 hours short. Other than that however, it was a pretty good time. I enjoy 
 the fact that you can battle pokemon in 3D and that you can transfer pokemon from your DS game 
 to your Wii. The battles in the game were much easier than in the DS game, but you can get used 
 to that. The battle animations were pretty good, but alot of them were repetitive and wore on me 
 pretty quickly. Also, the 3D models sucked. The models were reused ones back from the N64 days. 
 Some of them looked better than others, especially the models of the new pokemon. They were the 
 ones that looked best, probably because they were newer. I havent gotten to playing online, so 
 ill get back to you guys on that.
  
  All in all, the game was pretty good. Could have been longer, could have looked better, and could 
 have been less repetitive, but if you wanna play something just to lay of some steam, i recommend 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lol_Bidoof
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 12, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  I for one was expecting a way better game than this but this is not a game that deserves so much 
 hate as it is as of right now. As we all know this game is trash without wifi or diamond and pearl 
 but if you got those 2 on you're list than you sure are in for a treat. You arrive in poketopia 
 as a young boy or girl from a jet ride and you meet up with a lady who gives all information you 
 need on poketopia and gets you ready for the colloseums. There are ten colloseums to battle in 
 which get harder and harder in diffulculty as it progreses. You can chose from a custom pass which 
 is you're pokemon from diamond or pearl transferd into the 3D poke world or a rental pass which 
 is a pokemon pass which is already set up but not so good. After you are done with the colloseums 
 you can use you're tickets to buy items and tm's and even a surfing pikachu you can transfer back 
 to the ds. Also you can customize you're character with accesories from the shop. So this is basiclly 
 all that is too the game. But wait i still havent mentioned the big part. The amazing wifi. Yes 
 the only real reason to buy this game is the wifi. Its truley incredible. Instead of having to 
 have a friends friend code to battle you can just go in random battles either double or single 
 and its very beautiful to look at also. The reason is that the graphics are absoluley the best 
 you can find on the wii. They are really breathtaking and the enviroments change with attacks like 
 rain dance are used. So as you can see this game isnt all that. basicly a downgrade form most pokemon 
 games. But it still brings a good time with online play and has great graphics which will satisfy 
 most pokemon fans. But be warned this game is for true pokemon fans only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supuhpapuhmario
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 11, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  slow, not apealing, boring, not many options, don't get this gamme and save a good ol fifty bucks 
 ||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||| 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
 sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky sucky 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Treize_
Rating: 2.8
Date: Aug 11, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  Wow. I was so excited when they announced this game. Online Wii game! Pokemon on Wii! YAY! IM GETTING 
 THIS! -_-. Never again. This has been a total dissapointment with horrible single player, and you 
 need to play $200 do play a ok multiplayer game. 150 for the DS and 50 for Pearl or Diamond. The 
 game doesn't deserve to be rented, if you want to rent it, it should be about 50 cents. Nah, thats 
 to expensive. Just use the 50 cents for a gumball or something. I bloody hate this game. Long story 
 short, do not buy this game, unless you just wanna support Nintendo then set it on fire, or feed 
 it to your dog or something. Just dont buy it. You'll be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baldwinc47
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 9, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Most of the pokemon games have a story line, most of which are the same, this game, has no story. 
 I am very disappointed about the fact that it is $50 and you have to waste it all on a game which 
 the main purpose is connecting your ds and battle. There is no absolute value to this game, rent 
 it don't buy it.
  If you want a good home console pokemon game, go for Pokemon Coloseum or Gale of Darkness. If you 
 are a battle person and eager to battle people in full 3-D then go ahead buy it, otherwise Rent 
 It.
  
  The Ups. You are allowed to battle on Wi-Fi.
  
  The Downs.
  No Story Line.
  
  There is nothing else to review on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wazzo_Wisto_2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 8, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely something new in pokemon, it's complete failure.
  I thought it would be like pokemon stadium or xd or those together but I realized it wasn't good. 
 You can't get the few juice of it if you don't have diamond and/or pearl the onlne game is good 
 but it's 99% because something's miissing and i say mii because i would have liked to see instead 
 of those ugly people ,the game full with miis. But the pokemon action is cool it would be a 7.5 
 game obviously. First rent it and see if you like it. It is not worthy of buying it instantly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGamemannn
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 7, 2007 10:31 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Impressive graphics, WiFi.
  
  The Bad- Where the @$#% are the mini games?; Game play gets old after ten minutes; little reason 
 to play at all; poor replay value; no leader boards to check your statistics; basically a $50 accessory 
 for your DS.
  
  Introduction: When it was hinted the Pokemon Battle Revolution was being released in the US soon, 
 this information was in all the game magazines such as Game Informer. Pokemon fans rejoiced happily 
 as the days of its release neared. I was one of those fans. Little did I know I was purchasing 
 the biggest disappointment in the Pokemon franchise so far.
  
  Plot: None to be found.
  
  Game play: The dissapointment starts right at the title screen. It shows the three starter 
 Pokemon evolutions in poses with a black background. THAT'S IT. WTF? From what I've known, Pokemon 
 Diamond had a better opening than that. Scratch that. MUCH BETTER than that. Well, enough of my 
 mini rant, on to actual game play.
  
  You will be pulled into a pointless tutorial about how to play and even how to AIM THE WII REMOTE 
 AT THE SCREEN. What does PBR think we are? Idiots or something?
  
  Anyway, the core gameplay is basically this: battle, battle, BATTLE. If you don't have a copy of 
 Pokemon Diamond or Pearl, then you get some cheesy trainer card with useless Pokemon that will 
 lose in battle in the blink of an eye. However, if you DO oown a copy, you use the DS's and the 
 Wii's WiFi capabilities to copy your Pokemon on to your new trainer card for you to use in battle.
 
  
  The Battles themselves? They get old in less than ten minutes. Know why? Two reasons:
  
  1. It takes an eternity to beat the Pokemon your battling.
  
  2. It's the same thing over 
 and over again.
  
  And defeating a eight trainers in a row, your reward is very pathetic and in order for it to be 
 worth something, your have to keep battling over and over again.
  
  It is also worth noting that there are no mini games. WTF (sorry for my excessive use of WTF ) ? 
 The two N64 versions had minigames to tide you over after all that battling. Seriously, this is 
 2007, and the developers couldn't have added a few minigames to bring a variety?
  
  Gezz....
  
  Score:6/10
  
  Graphics: Overall impressive, but I guess the developers depended 
 too much on graphics to care much about game play. GRAPHICS DON'T MAKE A GAME. What makes a game 
 are decent controls, good characters, and solid replay value. Sad that Nintendo has yet to learn 
 this lesson.
  
  Score: 9/10
  
  Sound: The sound effects are cool, but the music get repetitive after a short while.
  
  Score: 
 7/10
  
  Overall: PBR is not the worst game I have ever play, nor is it bad in general. But this is the 
 BIGGEST disappointment to come in a long time. Too bad the developers couldn't add a couple of 
 mini games and whatnot. I just hope this is just a one time mess up, and Nintendo will take more 
 consideration for the content level of their games.
  
  Score: 6.1 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sword-Hunter277
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 6, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  There's not much that can be said about the latest installment within the Pokemon universe. Why, 
 you might ask? That's simple. It's because, quite frankly, there is not much to do within it. You 
 have your typical Pokemon Stadium features, including Colosseum battles, battles using your Game 
 Boy, and the option to create your own team. However, features that were a big part of the prior 
 games, such as various mini-games, Pokemon that you can actually rent, and Quick-Battles against 
 the Computer or your friends, are all missing. In place of that, a shop system has been set up 
 that allows you to purchase clothing to enhance your character's appearance, as well as various 
 mystery gifts that you can transfer to your Pokemon Diamond and Pearl games via the DS wireless 
 connection. The other new feature is the Wi-Fi battles that take place over Wi-Fi. This is perhaps 
 the most addicting part of Pokemon Battle Revolution, as the matchmaking system that Nintendo has 
 decided to set up will get you into a match with another player in seconds. Unfortunately, the 
 Wi-Fi area is overflowing with Pre-teens who use the rental Pokemon, which can make your experience 
 quite tedious due to being able to obliterate kids within 3-4 turns.
  
  Overall, the new features do not make up for the lack of features from the past games. Unless you 
 own a copy of Pokemon Diamond or Pearl, this is one title that you (and your wallet) can afford 
 to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naruto10000
Rating: 3.6
Date: Aug 5, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  Okay, so lets see... the music is quite good, not including the announcer who gets so annoying. 
 The game... in a few words, sucks balls! Anyone who gets this game must have a DS and Diamond/Pearl 
 fully played through. If not, have fun with $50 less dollars! The wifi constantly disconnects, 
 Friend codes are not the Wii numbers, and is their any more evil??? The gameplay sucks. Attacks 
 repeat a lot. And if you have good pokemon. You own this game, excluding a few Colosseums. So.... the 
 lesson here is DON'T BUY THIS GAME UNLESS YOU LOVE POKEMON AND NINTENDO!!! Rent... maybe, but don't 
 make the mistake of buying it. I made that mistake. Now, to go get Strikers and return this game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sora250
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 3, 2007 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo and Genius Sonority is giving us another Pokemon game for us to enjoy. Pokemon battle 
 Revolution might be a Pokemon fan dream but what about everyone else?
  
  Sound:
  Pokemon games were not know much for there sound and this game disappoints compare to the portable 
 games. Each Colosseum loops the same music over again each match with each Pokemon having there 
 old cries from the portable games which seem outdated when put on the wii. If you missed him in 
 Pokemon Colosseum and XD then you will glad to know that the announcer makes a return but he can 
 get repetitive very fast and you might see yourself turning him off once in a while. The music 
 pass but not by much.
  score: 6
  
  graphics: The graphics are ok for Pokemon battle revolution. Some of the Pokemon look really good 
 while other look like they were copy and paste from Pokemon Colosseum. The backgrounds look different 
 and great and that trainer look good, some of the Pokemon still look bad. Score: 6
  
  Game play:
  The Pokemon games has almost ot never change with each of the new games and it does 
 not change in Battle Revolution ether. Your main goal is make a team of Pokemon, go around battling 
 people and catching all the Pokemon so you can become the master. You have all your Pokemon and 
 types in this game. Pokemon battle revolution bring the fighting side of Pokemon to 3D but many 
 thing are lacking that Pokemon Diamond and Pearl had. You will make your own trainer, give him 
 his clothes and then battle with your team of Pokemon. There are two major things added to battle 
 revolution. First is the trainer shop where you can buy items (shirt, pants, shoes and many others) 
 for your trainer and make him look different. The second new thing which is not really new but 
 improved on Diamond and Pearl is Wi fi mode thanks to Nintendo wi fi connection set up and for 
 the first time, you can battle random people. The problem with this is that there are no ladder 
 and the game does not keep track of wins or loses which makes wi fi seem kind of pointless other 
 than bragging rights. On the single player side of the game, battle revolution offer Colosseum 
 to battle in. You will start with only a couple of Colosseum and then you will earn your way though 
 out all of them. Depending on how much you play on wi fi, all the game main hours can all be counted 
 on your two hands but for Pokemon fans, this game can last over 35 hours at the least.
  score : 8
  
  Overall: People, you have to remember, this is not a game but more or less an 
 extension to Pokemon Diamond and Pearl. If you are looking to milk Diamond and Pearl out until 
 it end, then Pokemon battle revolution does get it job done but for normal gamer without diamond 
 and pearl. Stay away from this game at all cost with alright looking graphics, no story, and music 
 being the same thing every time. Next time Nintendo, give the Pokemon system games to game freak 
 instead of Genius Sonority.
  Over all score: 6.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clutzyaj
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 2, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  When Pokemon first hit Amaerica's shores in the mid-90's, my skeptic parents wouldn't let me get 
 close to the frenzy. Now a days, I like the franchise better than the Mario franchise, but not 
 as much as Starfox. I rented this game, and what I expereinced wasn't the worst , but more like 
 the Mario Party type appeal.
  
  Pokemon: Battle Revolution is a game that gives you the chance to see your either disgutingly cute 
 (like Pikachu and Jigglypuff) , cartoony yet cool, or awsome dawned critters fight in a 3-D plane. 
 It's all right, but what you get is a game that's missing something...
  
  Graphics are a big thing here, and most will agree, some of the pokemon have never looked better. 
 In reallity though, it's mostly the cute pokemon who look good. I was upset with the fact that 
 my Ninetales almost looked more like a porcalain statue than some fire-powered fox, in fact, most 
 of the highly-evovled pokemon are like this. Even though they move around and some of the animations 
 are neat, it's a big upset that ledgendaries, certain 2nd level evovled, and fully evovled monsters 
 seem to be ripped out of the Gamecube polygon enviroment. However, the frame-rate stays pretty 
 constant except when a critical hit happens and the game uses a cliche matrix effect, otherwise 
 it's a sacrafice that isn't too big of a deal.
  
  The trainers are customizeable, to certain point in the begging, but progress will eventually allow 
 you to make a unique character. The game's goal is basic: beat the various matches and move on 
 to become the ultimate trainer. Now this is where the game goes off in either becoming your worst 
 nightmare or a cheap thrill. If you DON'T have a DS AND Pokemon Diamond and/or Pearl, you'll be 
 stuck using the rental pass. The pass comes equiped with six acceptable pokemon that sadly can 
 never be changed, which will make the game worthless. If you DO have a DS AND Pokemon Diamond and/or 
 Pearl, you create a custom trainer and two and use your Pokemon that can be switched around. Considering 
 the last scenario, you can make this really easy on yourself or really diffcult and boring. If 
 you have pokemon that have gone over Level 80, this game winds up being a piece of cake, especailly 
 in the begging, but it will hurt you later sometimes. Use the rentals, and well, you probably threw 
 your money away.
  
  For me, music in the games is a big deal, and this stuff is ok. I was expecting to get some decent 
 stuff that was nice, fat, and orchestratistic like that of SSBM, but you get the usual up-beat 
 techno stuff that after you heard it enough in Diamond or Pearl, it's just not impresive. Some 
 of the losing and opening sequences are nice, and seem to add some touch to when you win or lose.
 
  
  The game has no dialouge, which is nice becuase you can create some of your own catch prhases. 
 This serves you no good alone, which is why take this game on in it's main glory: Multi-player. 
 I haven't tried out the Wi-Fi, but what I saw in the manual is pretty basic: find some random player 
 and challenge them.
  
  Overall, this game is more of a game that depends on your personal prefences. If you're a poke 
 fanatic, you'll buy it anyway. If your a guy who likes pokemon and enjoys the series, but won't 
 go to extremes, wait for the game's price to drop or get it used (that's what I'm planning on doing) . 
 If you had enough kids' stuff , you're not going to want to spend that dime I talked about earlier. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devil_Vergil
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 2, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is a teter toter. it has its good and its bad. For those of you who do not have Diamond 
 / Pearl PLEASE don't waste your money buying A used DS and a used Pokemon Diamond / Pearl is much 
 worth it. For the ones who do have a DS + P/D this game rocks the graphics are amazing and they 
 bring out the best of Poke'mon looks. Online is sweet and allows tons of hours of play! I'm going 
 to rate this game on my own personal experience. So just read a bunch of other reveiws first before 
 you make your ultimate judgement oon this game. For me I'd say its good really good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonickingdom77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 1, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon is something i always liked. when i got this a week ago and i think its good. i played some 
 ok Pokemon games but there is something that grabbed me. I suggest you get this game if you like 
 pokemon. The olny thing i do not like is the DS transfer. what if you do not have a DS or the pokemon 
 games on DS. otherwise i think its all worth it. The gameplay does not use the wii remote to its 
 full use. so its good for the wii but i think it can get rid of that DS thing. But im not saying 
 its a bad game or anthing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solid757
Rating: 4.2
Date: Aug 1, 2007 4:53 am PT
Review:  A 50 dollar loyalty tax to Pok&eacute; mon fans. That quote took the words right out of my mouth, 
 thanks Boze.
  Seriously though this game is NOT WORTH 50 DOLLARS. DO NOT BUY THIS GAME, unless you love giving 
 nintendo money. if that is the case, then go right ahead. $
  $
  $
  
  so if you want it so bad maybe you will get lucky and find it beside far cry vengeance, happy bargain 
 bin hunting, and for those who say this game is fun, your the ones that love giving nintendo money. 
 Well that is all I have left to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Niky325
Rating: 6.4
Date: Aug 5, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is just what all pokemon lovers come to expect, the turn based formula we all come to 
 know and love. The thing is, if you get any bit bored of the gameplay, you just let this game collect 
 dust on your shelf. Lets break it down to 4 categories (categories that matter) :
  
  -Graphics: The graphics in this game are high-tier when it comes to the wii, but im talking about 
 the graphics, not the battle animations, those get a 5 from me,
  the Graphics:8
  
  -Gameplay: Like I said before, this game has that same poke'turn based formula we all seem to find 
 addicting.
  Gameplay: 8
  
  1p: CRAP! Seriously, why did they have to throw the adventure style out the window in exchange 
 for a select your arena, choose your pokemon, complete a mission (done by battling) , repeat. This 
 really makes the gameplay boring, which means never playing the game. So the only way to not hate 
 this game is to not play it, at least not 5 hours a day.
  1p mode: 3
  
  Wifi: Okay heres where the game really tries to win you over: WIFI on the WII! You would think it 
 would make the game better, but no, it doesnt. The Wifi is just a battle against someone, thats 
 it! I would of liked it a whole lot more if it had more options for a match, because it only lets 
 you use 3 at a time (singles, 4 for doubles) . It also doesnt keep you records which sucks. Even 
 though it has the gameplay, the wifi throws away your accomplishments. Therefore the Wifi:6 Thank 
 you for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrDziekuje
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 30, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Battle Revolution was released last year just like Diamond and Pearl in Japan. I personally wasvery 
 excited over this game. After all, it was the first Wii game to utilize Nintendo Wi-Fi. And what 
 could be more fun than battling people all over the world, right from your own home, and in full 
 3-D? Adding to the game a bit would have been a start. You see, Battle Revolution has two things; 
 battles and Battle Passes. The Battles are very well done. 2 vs 2 is the standard however some 
 colosseums use 1 vs 1. Each colosseum has slighty different rules, from doing a round-robin style 
 tournament, to using only battle passes with pre-set teams, to mixing your team with your opponent's. 
 The there's the Battle Passes. You can create a custom trainer and team of your own Pokemon to 
 use in gameplay. You can upload your entire arsenal of Pokemon from Diamond and Pearl, which includes 
 your party and all PC boxes. By clearing colosseums, you can also unlock new clothes and accessories 
 to customise your trainer to the fullest. And if that wasn't enough, you can change the background 
 of your pass and make custom lines that your trainer says in battle. Online play is good although 
 it didn't meet the hype. You can have random match-ups without friend-codes which is a plus. You 
 can also pick the battle type (double or single) and colosseum. There's also one online-exclusive 
 colosseum. And you may also collect Friend Passes, or the Battle Passes of trainers you battle 
 online. On the negative side, your custom lines and and any nicknames your Pokemon have are set 
 to default to prevent profanity over Wi-Fi. Which isn't really a bad thing, but it's a dissappointment 
 to see harmless stuff like Bubba revert to Raichu. Visuals are top-notch. All the formerly recycled 
 Stadium 1 and 2 Pokemon models have been cleaned up and re-done to match the new additions. However, 
 Genius Sonority couldn't be expected to go the whole nine yards. They made sure to recycle the 
 third generation Pokemon to make sure everyone noticed they weren't trying hard. Of course, as 
 far as I can tell, there are some exceptions. Like Groudon is a third-gen Pokemon, and maybe it's 
 just my eyes, but they made it look a bit better. And the opposite is true, as some first and second-gen 
 Pokemon don't look much different than they did six years ago. So that's it. While Stadium 1 and 
 2 had fun mini-games, R/B and G/S gyms, Gameboy Tower to play your games on the big screen, and 
 Stadium 2's Acadamy and very helpful Library, Battle Rev has none of that. Sifting through your 
 boxes gives you all the info it would on the DS but it's no substitue for Professor Oak's Lab. 
 In the end, Battle Rev is a must have for Pokemaniacs but even then it's not worth the $50. People 
 who aren't really huge fans of Pokemon or those who don't have Diamond and Pearl should definately 
 stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdazednconfused
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 29, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Were was the mini games and rentals we all loved from stadium! Online play makes it the only reason 
 to buy. Makes sure you have diamond and pearl or its rental passes for you and they are suc, ky 
 to the max. The graphics did make me cream at first. The moves graphics are so much better then 
 the pokemon are. The origanal two stadiums were so much better. The game play is quick and some 
 of the different styles of battle suck balls. Online is sort of slow and you cant brag or make 
 fun of the person ur playing. No record is made of your victories either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dpunkrocker10
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 27, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Im going to make this short and sweet, this game is not bad at the beginning but once you get through 
 it and u see the same faces over and over again it gets boring. And yes, it does get harder every 
 time you pass the arena its still kinda dull. The only upside that i can see this game is the the 
 first online play and also uploading the pokemon which isnt new but does give you a wide choose 
 of creatures to play with rather than the rental. Overall you should get the game for online play 
 but if your waiting for a very good online game i would wait for Mario Kart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superslackbro
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 26, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  the game was an expansion pack and should be treated as such. the game is good for many FANS but 
 not for the casual gamer. i bought this game the moment it came out because I finished diamond 
 and wanted more i wanted to play with random people online, i wanted to see my Pokemon attack each 
 other with blows that hit the opponent and that is what I got. But it could have been better in 
 many other ways. The game needed to be more in complex and have a story line. More player interaction 
 would have been nice to such as have a action decide your move not a pointer and such. Also online 
 tournaments would have been awesome. in conclusion treat the game as it should be a game for fans 
 and fans alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decoy1978
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 25, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  I never liked the Battle Revolution game that came out for GC. I thought it was too monotnous and 
 repetitive and I was met with the same fanfare for this game. Basic concept is your in a tournament 
 and you go around fight trainers. Thats all you do, there are no exploration and no side quests 
 per say. All you do is participate in a tournament and reach the top. The only redeemable value 
 this game has is that you can port your monsters from Diamond/Pearl and compete with them. It also 
 hosts first online play for the Wii, but I guarantee you that you will tire of that real fast.
 
  
  Overall if your a pokemon fanatic, then you'll enjoy this game, but if your looking for a more 
 solid game then your better off elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PBz0r
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jul 24, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Yes, of course. There are those that just don't seem to want to like Pokemon and will try to bash 
 the franchise by all means. Looking at the score I gave this game, you'll probably expect me to 
 be a hater. However, with over 3000 hours of playing time with games ranging from Pok&eacute; mon 
 Snap to Blue, from Puzzle League to Diamond and from Crystal to Stadium, I'd say I'm well worthy 
 of the title Pok&eacute; veteran. I couldn't possibly hate this game. Though after I saw Diamond 
 and Pearl were actually the best Pokemon games to date, I did expect a lot from Pok&eacute; mon 
 Battle Revolution. Let's just describe this game in only one word to start things off: half-assed.
 
  
  You start the game and get to see the title screen. Now of course a flashy intro doesn't determine 
 how good a game is, but even the first Pok&eacute; mon Stadium already featured the fanservice goodness 
 known as a game intro, so there's the first disappointment. Anyway, you press any button and continue 
 to the main menu. Three options: Options. Options allows you to change controls and that's about 
 it. Multiplayer. Multiplayer is for DS owners only (so there's no way you're gonna duke it out 
 with random friends and random pokemon) . Most of the time there are no friends around with a copy 
 of D/P so you won't use this feature a whole lot. In previous games you could select pokemon you 
 didn't actually train, which wasn't as fun as battling others with a respectable Pokemon savefile, 
 but at least threw a fully functioning multiplayer feature into the mix.
  Adventure. You're on an airplane. Suddenly a nautical version of Las Vegas emerges from the horizon: 
 you have just arrived in Pok&eacute; topia, the world where PBR takes place. Then a nice-looking 
 counterlady appears, who explains to you how the game works: enter in cups, get money, pimp your 
 character's looks. Because you don't want to fight with absolutely useless Pokemon you're gonna 
 want to import your monsters from D/P. Yes, you'll get a preset party of Pokemon if you don't have 
 the game, so no democracy here. But hey, why would you buy the game anyway if you don't even have 
 Diamond or Pearl?
  So you start out battling, and you see the island once again. Pick the only tournament that allows 
 you to use imported Pokemon, start making mince meat out of other trainers (they SUCK) and after 
 defeating the first leader, you're pretty much done playing this game. Really. No free roaming 
 adventure, no minigames, no other greatness found in any other Stadium series game. Just battles. 
 Repetitive battles. You've seen it all.
  
  I have absolutely no idea what the developers were thinking when leaving out the minigames, pok&eacute; school, 
 pok&eacute; lab, gym leader castle or anything that made the previous Stadiums worth your while. 
 There's really nothing to do in this game. It doesn't look bad, but animations, formula and commentary 
 of the battles are at N64-level. Compared to consoles we now have (most notably the PS3) , the graphics 
 still look cheap so you won't ever gasp in awe, though how the game looks is still the best thing 
 about it. In other words: the original Pok&eacute; mon Stadium is a better game. Not only at the 
 time, but even in this day and age. Now search on Gamespot for the original Stadium review and 
 you'll see that wasn't such a great game either, even at the time.
  
  So there you have it: the game that has the most FAIL written al over it in about 3 years. Stadiums 
 were always a welcome addition to the complete Pocket Monster experience, but even the greatest 
 fans should stay away from Pok&eacute; mon Battle Revolution. It fails to make the 4th generation 
 of Pok&eacute; mon RPG's the best one. Considering how Pok&eacute; mon Stadium 2 was much more fun, 
 the best gen for now is the 2nd. End of story 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmdragon
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jul 23, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  This game could of been a whole lot better. You can't even catch your own pokemon. Wish i would of 
 rented first could of used the money for a xbox 360 game or ps3. IT does make a good coaster though. Just 
 let your dog have it for a chew toy. Definitley rent it first would not recommend it. I have diamond 
 and pearl both and it still gets boring quik. This game is worse than cooking with mama. I hope they 
 plan on making a different one i really like playing online with my friends but not all the time. There 
 is nothing to keep you busy on that rainy day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shim_K
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 22, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  As a very strong Pokemon fan, and a very easy-going reviewer, this game isn't very thrilling. The 
 cost ($50!?) is WAY too much, but, I suppose I'm getting the use outta it.
  
  Pros:
  + Brings back the classic Nintendo Console Pokemon game feel
  + D/P Transfers
  + Custom gear
 
  + Freeform battle
  + Amazing graphics
  
  Cons:
  - Well... the gameplay
  - Boring too easily
  - TAKES TOO LONG
  - That lady that lectures you on everything
  
  Gameplay 
 6
  --------------------
  The concept of just battleing, no level ups, no new moves, is just fine for me, considering I have 
 Action Replay to soop it up. The veriety of game modes is also a fine touch. But 7 trainers per 
 stadium is just too freakin' much. As for multiplayer, I haven't got it to work yet, but heard 
 much good from it. The basic concept, battle to unlock more tedious battles to earn points to earn 
 gear or mystery gifts for the D/P game. The DS to DS feature is... well, a waste, considering the 
 steps. 1) Boot up the Wii 2) Open up PBR 3) Select mode 4) Boot up DS and play. Why not just boot up 
 the DS systems alone? The graphics are the only reason I can think of... and just another needless 
 feature to bulk up it's already atrocious rating.
  
  Graphics 10
  --------------------
  What a high poly count! The graphics are the best a Wii can so far support next to Zelda! You can 
 see no etches and no flaws in the 3D except for Marshstomp's mouth. And the effects are great!!! 
 The only major graphics flaw I can point out is the fact that bite still makes no direct contact.
 
  
  Sound 9
  --------------------
  Perhaps I am being too generous. Not much to be said except a bravo for keeping the same narrorator 
 as in the anime!
  
  Value 5
  --------------------
  Whelp, not worth the money. You only earn a small bit of pokemon. They could at least be able to 
 buy Pokes for storage for your custom card. You can't earn much and just a repulsive game value.
 
  
  Overall 7.7
  --------------------
  ---------------
  ----------
  -----
  --
  -
  . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZoaKnight
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 21, 2007 6:06 am PT
Review:  Poke'mon Battle Revolution is a okay game without Diamnd and Pearl to say the least. It has good 
 visual effects and amazing graphics and the sound is top notch. Gameplay was addicting as usual 
 but, could've used something new. But, never get's old. And it'll keep you playing for a month 
 or 2 1/2 but, not to say there weren't missing components. This game feel like a 3D simulator for 
 Diamand/Pearl and less than a game. It's like they took a step back and went Poke'mon Staudim on 
 us. With no leveling up or use of items it felt, well, bare-bones. And the fact that you need DIamand 
 and Pearl to fully use the game is really stupid. Put it this way; the game is a device to battle 
 Diamand and Pearl creatures on the big screen. You failed nintendo. Bottom line: Don't buy it. 
 Rent it. A waste of 50 bucks unless you have Diamand &amp; Pearl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMarioDude1
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jul 20, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  No, it is absolutely NOT revolutionary. It's barley long enough to be a game. In fact, PBR is exactly 
 like Battle Frontier from Pokemon Emerald. Well, not exactly. It's basically Battle Frontier+gay 
 announcer+another billion Pokemon. On the plus side, the graphics are outstanding, and battles, 
 though repetitive, are still kind of fun. But this isn't enough to save this game from total failure. 
 Oh yeah, and the online sucks %$#@. I guess we're going to have to wait until Mario Strikers Charged 
 for a real online game. *Oh yeah, and if you're one of those dweebs who thinks this game is awesome 
 because it's a Pokemon game, you especially should stay away from this game. Because if I hear 
 another Pokemon ********** is awesome because it has Pikachu in it , I am going to go on a homicidal 
 rampage.
  
  * Imagine that I put this at the end of my Pokemon Ranger/ Channel reviews, too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 20, 2007 4:49 am PT
Review:  This game might appeal somewhat to pokefans but in short, this devastating game fails to bring 
 any new or old elements that made the franchise ever so popular except for fighting. Their is no 
 exp gaining, catching, training, raising, breeding, nothing! Even worse, this game is practically 
 an extension to diamond and pearl as it offers the copy system which enables the user to copy his 
 or her pokemon from the ds... if you dont have the game, you'll have to settle with a different 
 trainer card that comes prepared with bad pokemon. All the negative being said, the game does bring 
 a few new aspects to it. It's collesum battles each have their own aspect. And thank god that this 
 time around the narrator can be muted! In short, i expect much more from the pokemon company. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yochab
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jul 18, 2007 12:47 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Battle Revolution is a turn based RPG game, that introduces to the player the world of 
 Pokemon, and Poke-battles, on the big screen -- as its producers would like to call it.
  
  In fact, Pokemon Battle Revolution is yet another game that is clearly under developed, under animated 
 and does not pass any review, no matter from which angel you look at it.
  
  Pokemon battle Revolution simulates the Pokemon Stadium series of games, that was developed for 
 the Nintedno 64!
  I believe that the gaming community and games themselves have gone though a vast improovment since 
 those days, and what sufficed back then ( and it really did. Pokemon Stadium was an enjoyable game) , 
 would cut it today, and just as it as, will be passed out as a cheap knock-off of the original 
 game, mearly as an attempt to extract a bit more money from the crazed out fans, and from the children 
 of the world.
  
  To me, Pokemon Battle Revolution is yet another game that should just be ignored, for lack of a 
 better word. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TLeBlanc
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 17, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Pros
  
  1. Great Graphics, and coiosseums.
  2. The first ever Wi-Fi game for the Wii.
  3. Varitey of character clothing.
  4. Creative Colosseum Rules in a few of them.
  
  Cons
 
  1. Wi-Fi could've been set up better.
  2. Tons of classic Pok&eacute; mon's sprites were recycled.
  3. Colosseum challenges are quicker 
 to go through then expected.
  
  
  Going back to Stadium; it wasn't really that much of a good game at all unless you had the Gameboy 
 versions that were in the game's region or under. Pok&eacute; mon Battle Revolution however, is 
 somewhat the same as Stadium was. Also, there was another solution to use; rental pokemon. But 
 not that much of rental choices in Pok&eacute; mon Battle Revolution.
  Instead, you got these things called Rental Passes which there were only two to start out with. 
 The Pok&eacute; mon that are in the rental passes were not that good at all.
  
  Controls are possibly the most simple thing to use in Pok&eacute; mon Battle Revolution just point 
 the Wii Remote that the object you want to select, then press A. Nothing much creative like in 
 Pok&eacute; mon Diamond and Pearl versions like doing all the battle options via touch screen.
 
  
  The graphics are possibly the best thing on Pok&eacute; mon Battle Revolution. The Pok&eacute; mon, 
 and the Colosseums were built creatively. But the Colosseums were one of the things that suprised 
 me the most out of all of the things that Pok&eacute; mon Battle Revolution has to offer.
  
  Sound was given to the objectives they deserved to be, and the music in this game is pretty good 
 compared to all of the other Pok&eacute; mon home consle games.
  
  Most of the value of this game comes from the Wi-Fi, and the Pok&eacute; mon D/P connectivity which 
 copies all of the Pok&eacute; mon from your boxes, onto your Pok&eacute; mon Battle Revolution profile. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acein12
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 17, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  I rented this game and I know that it is not worth the whole $50 they want for it.
  
  Gameplay: This game is naturally fun if you like to battle with pokemon. But thats all you can 
 do. No mini games, side quest, nothing. While there is alot of collosiums to go and big challenges 
 to complete there, there aren't many. Only two per collosium, not much. But they are fun, and have 
 very different twists to them. You would also want to own Diamond or pearl if you plan on battling 
 with good pokemon because the rentals are crappy. And also if you have Diamond or pearl; you can 
 trade down special tms via mystery gift; but thats if you know the password for it in D/p (Diamond 
 and Pearl) The online play hasn't got much to say for itself. Nintendo has this stirct rule where, 
 if you don't have their friend code, you can't see their connection, team, or anything untill you 
 battle them. And its been this way in all Nintendo games, and while it was good in other places; 
 its bad here. No leader boards, no lobby, nothing. You go online to play. No one elses friend code. 
 No control over who you play. Thats bad. Graphics: This is amazing. Great. No if only they wheren't 
 so stiff.
  
  Sound: Good, here able, don't know if techno's is the way to go though.
  
  Value: Not worth $50
  
  Tilt: You'll find your self coming back up untill you beat it. Other 
 wise... you might just do it for the tms. Or... you might no like it period. So rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeus-Guy
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 11:48 pm PT
Review:  If I've come to realize anything about the Pokmon franchise is that games that are part of the 
 spin-off series (as I like to call it) are more often than not inferior to games in the main series, 
 and that opinion hasn't changed over the years. The next entry in the spin-off series is Pokmon 
 Battle Revolution, a sequel (if you can call it that) to the Pokmon Stadium games for the Nintendo 
 64 released about 7 years ago.
  
  Much like the stadium games before it, Battle Revolution (which I'm going to abbreviate "PBR" from 
 now on to save time) focuses on one aspect of the Pokmon franchise, the battles. Your goal is 
 to use a team of Pokmon to battle rival Pokmon trainers and climb the ranks on the battle-themed 
 island Poktopia. You can choose to use a preset team the game provides or you can wirelessly link 
 up the Wii with the DS and Pokmon Diamond and Pearl and download your own team from the DS games 
 (it's a lot better to use the latter) . It certainly beats having to shell out an extra 20 bucks 
 for a link cable. Pokmon battles are easy to get into, especially for veterans of the series, 
 which I'm sure by now there's a lot of. You and your opponent use a team of Pokmon and battle 
 each other using one of four attacks the Pokmon knows, each taking turns attacking until one team 
 exhausts the other team's Pokmon. Some of the game's colosseums stretch the rules by adding a 
 certain theme, such as choosing your team via a roulette wheel. Winning these fights awards you 
 with points that are redeemable in goodies that can be transferred to the DS games.
  
  Perhaps the biggest new feature PBR has to offer is one that series fans have been griping about 
 for a while, customizable trainers. You are given a choice of six different avatars (four have 
 to be unlocked first) that you can dress up with an assortment of clothes, hair colors and accessories. 
 As you climb the ranks, more garments can be purchased for your character, although some are merely 
 recolors. Later on, you can get full Pokmon costumes like Pachirisu, Lucario, Kyogre and Groudon, 
 though they come as a set and aren't interchangeable. Although this feature isn't perfect, it's 
 not bad for a first attempt and should defiantly become a recurring theme in any subsequent Pokmon 
 game.
  
  Unfortunately, the main problem with the gameplay in PBR, like it's predecessors, becomes apparent 
 very quickly  the game does not have an RPG-style adventure mode similar to what is featured on 
 the handheld games. Without any of the other features that made Pokmon what it is today (such 
 as the exploration) , the thrill of battles wears thin very quickly. Being able to see your Pokmon 
 collection battle in full 3D, interesting as it may sound, does not enhance the overall experience 
 beyond a visual point of view and it's a problem that's been with the console Pokmon games since 
 day one, though we did get a break on the Game Cube with Colosseum and XD: Gale of Darkness. It's 
 this problem that make PBR feel more like an expansion than a full-fledged game. When you consider 
 that it doesn't offer nearly as much content as Diamond and Pearl, you feel ripped off paying 50 
 bucks for an "incomplete experience". More on that a little later.
  
  The game's appearance is sort of a mixed bag. The human characters, attack effects, backgrounds 
 and 100+ new Pokmon look very good and are some of the better graphics seen on the Wii since Legend 
 of Zelda: Twilight Princess. On the other hand, the original 386 Pokmon look as though they were 
 ripped straight from the Game Cube games with little to no modification of any sort, which is a 
 bad thing because 250 of those Pokmon originated from the Stadium games on the N64. Those who 
 saw early footage of PBR will notice that destructible environments have been omitted from the 
 final product, a big disappointment. The animations are another problem. Most attacks still show 
 the user starting the animation and then cutting away to the target getting hit. For some attacks 
 the user takes a few steps forward, begin the animation and again, cut away to the targeting taking 
 the hit; only seldomly does it show the attacker making physical contract with the target. Also, 
 a knocked out Pokmon will return to its idle stance before it actually starts its fainting animation.
 
  
  Audio wise, again, it's a mixed bag. Pokmon cries are still lifted from the handheld games, although 
 this is likely due to limitations, so I guess it can be forgiven, though it's high time they start 
 figuring out a way to work around that. Making a return to the series is the play-by-play announcer 
 (who's voice actor did the anime's narrator) . He quickly becomes annoying to listen to since he 
 continues to run his mouth off with only a handful of dull phrases, but the good news is you can 
 shut him up. The music isn't the best I've heard for a Pokmon console game (at least some are 
 more memorable than others) , but at the very least, they're passable.
  
  PBR marks the first Wii game to use Nintendo Wi-Fi connection, something that has been exclusive 
 to Nintendo DS for the last year or so. However, there are few options and it doesn't offer nearly 
 as much as the DS games since you can't do stuff like trade your Pokmon or use voice chat (although 
 I never tried it so I may be wrong) . Furthermore, there's no online scoreboard to show off and 
 keep track of your victories, so if you scored a major win against a tough opponent, you and your 
 unfortunate victim will be the only ones who know about it. The biggest problem is one that has 
 been brought up in other reviews, if you run into an error during the Wi-Fi connection, you're 
 forced back to the menu screen and you have to restart the whole process again, quickly turning 
 online play into one big hassle and if you're like me, you'll run into this problem a number of 
 times.
  
  As it's a Pokmon game, Battle Revolution will likely sell very well (which it probably is) , despite 
 its many flaws. The problem is the creators might only see the success of the game from a finical 
 point of view and therefore might not make any attempt to fix it, potentially plaguing the Wii 
 with more mediocre games like this. If it weren't for Pokmon Diamond and Pearl, right about now 
 I'd be starting to question if the series would be able to stay alive. As it stands, PBR looks 
 and feels like nothing more than an expansion and is defiantly not worth the price of a full-fledged 
 Wii game ($50) . Pokmon fan or not, you'd better off avoiding this game and sticking with Diamond 
 and Pearl. The Pokmon series deserves much better than this.
  
  Gameplay  5
  Visuals  6.5
  Audio  5
  Replay  5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: je_taime_RB_27
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 14, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon: Battle Revolution
  
  Yes! I rent this game (because of a friend) and it's really boring and a waste of time. I think 
 Nintendo are turning around with this franchise!
  I like the Pokemon's on gameboy. The Pokemon: Colosseum and DX Gale of Darkness were okay but this 
 one...
  
  It's like the Colosseum but with no story (I think, because I played less than 30 minutes) . Oh 
 yeah and if I'm not correct, please tell me!
  
  There's one thing taht I appreciated about the game. It's the 3-D graphics, they were great! The 
 attaks were well made.
  The sounds were good. But the gameplay was really bad. It was almost the same at the gameboy.
 
  This game could be put on gamecube or even gameboy and it would be the same.
  
  PLEASE don't buy this game!!
  
  Thanks for read ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yankeez1311
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 14, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  GRAPHICS: C-
  The Good: The back round of the coliseums are very creative and colorful. The Trainer character 
 models are detailed and look similar to the cartoon series character.
  
  The Bad: The Pokemon designs are bland. The mostly all animations are repetitive. For example, 
 when a Pokemon gets hit by an attack it will do the same animation, when it faints it will do the 
 same animation and so on. The of the animations of the original 150 Pokemon look like they have 
 been recycled from the original Pokemon Stadium. To add to it the battle animations get boring 
 after awhile.
  
  SOUND: D
  The Good: Thank god theres an option to turn off the announcer.
  
  The Bad: The announcer at 
 first seems semi-worth listening but corny, then he becomes highly repetitive and at that point 
 you'd wish there wasn't one. The music for game isn't anything worth purchasing in a store as a 
 soundtrack. There is no speech in the game.
  
  CONTROL: C
  The Good: Its point and click there's not much more to it.
  
  The Bad: Nothing beside the fact 
 that you do barely anything with the controller.
  
  GAME PLAY ( with a DS and Pokemon Diamond/Pearl) C-, (with out) F
  The Good: Pokemon Battle Revolution 
 boasts the first Wii to DS connectivity. It allows you to Copy your Pokemon to your hard drive. 
 It also allows for you to battle online against random people or people you have traded friend 
 codes with.
  
  The Bad: Storing your Pokemon on your hard drive is the only Wii to DS connectivity. For online 
 there is no noticeable rank system, although it mentions having one on the back of the game. There 
 is no online voice chat. You can't trade friend codes with people you randomly battled. As for 
 single player there seems to be no point in beating any coliseum. All you get are poke' coupons 
 to customize your trainer or purchase mystery items you can receive in your DS Pokemon game. None 
 of these items you couldn't already get in your DS game. OVERALL D+
  This game is lacking a foundation on the multi player side and single player lacks incentive for 
 the player to beat. It's boring to just point click and watch your Pokemon attack. The only redeeming 
 quality is having your own Pokemon dominate every trainer in the game, which say one of two things:
 
  
  A- Your a good trainer
  
  B- The game is too easy
  
  I'd go with B because Genius Sonority managed to do a sub par job at making this game so it probably 
 not the might of my Pokemon. If you don't have Diamond or Pearl to connect to PBR trade PBR back 
 in there's no point in playing unless you enjoy battling with garbage Pokemon with garbage attacks. 
 I believe this game wasn't ever going to be a blockbuster, but i did believe it was going to be 
 a lot more than it turned out to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seth_rules
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about this game?
  
  First of all, when you play Pokemon Battle Revolution, you have only one thing to do... battle. 
 The longer you play, the more repetitive the battles get. Also, I understand that the ones who 
 made this game wanted to renew the battle animation, but if we look to every moves that exist in 
 the game we can notice that most of the attacks are related to each other by some base animations. 
 What's the point with all these rental pass? In the previous Pokemon Stadium, the only "rental" 
 things were the Pokemon. Pokemon that were level 5, 15, 50 and 100 with preset moves. The previous 
 Pokemon Stadium allowed you to choose 6 pokemon of all the pokemon available. That way you could 
 have a team depending on YOUR preferences. In Pokemon Battle Revolution, they give you the pass 
 and the pokemon no way for you to choose your team unless you have a Pokemon Diamond or Pearl if 
 you don't, that's too bad. That brings me to this point.
  
  Second of all, like Pokemon Stadium 1 & 2, Pokemon Battle Revolution has a storage system.... but 
 is it the same as the previous Pokemon Stadium ? I don't think so. In the latest Pokemon Stadium, 
 which is Pokemon Stadium 2, you could store your pokemon in it. Not only you could store them, 
 you could save them in here so you could start over your Pokemon (silver, gold, etc.) . The only 
 way to get your pokemon back was to respect the requirements which were to have the pokedex and 
 the 8 badges... simple. But in Pokemon Battle Revolution, the storage system is totally different. 
 The only thing it does is copying all of your pokemon to your Pokemon Battle Revolution game. There's 
 no chance of getting them back. Also, it requires that you use the same Pokemon game. It means 
 that you can't start over your game or else, the stored Pokemon will be deleted.
  
  Third of all, this is the last reason why people shouldn't buy this game. In Pokemon Stadium 2, 
 there was a Pokemon Academy for the people who didn't know about the Pokemon Universe. There was 
 in it a library showing all the pokemon with their evolution just like a pokedex. Also, the information 
 you could find on the pokemon were quite useful like the moves they could learn by leveling up, 
 egg moves, TM, HM and move tutors. There was also some battling classes with short explanations, 
 short exams and short battles. In these battles, they taught you how to use combos and when to 
 use it which is quite helping if you're a beginner.
  
  I wouldn't recommend this game to any Pokemon Fan, because I'm maybe a Pokemon Fan but I'm not 
 stupid. I know that you've all been waiting for this, but you need to admit it was a little bit 
 disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dunestar
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 10, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  One of the things I used to love about the console Pokemon games was you could download your trained 
 critters and fight them against the computer. It was refreshing from the same old missions you 
 had to deal with in Pokemon itself.
  
  Even Colloseum and Pokemon XD put a spin on the traditional tale where you actually had to snag 
 opponents Pokemon and 'purify' them, then you could even import those Pokemon into your game. So 
 when I heard about Pokemon Battle Revolution being announced for the Wii, my head swam with random 
 concepts GAMEFREAK and the Pokemon Company might implement with the series. Especially now with 
 the addition of Online Play.
  
  Regrettably, what we ended up acquiring from Nintendo was an extremely poor man's version of Pokemon 
 Stadium sans the minigames, or even the possibility of some story line for offline play. Not to 
 mention the chance of unlocking those secret 'Event' Pokemon which games apparently love hacking 
 at the risk of ruining their DS game in the bargain.
  
  Instead of simply wailing on the game itself, why don't I at least put out the good points of Battle 
 Revolution.
  
  Just like in Stadium, you have to battle at different areas with a unique set of rules. You're 
 given the option of using a Rental Battle Pass, or if you have Pearl or Diamond, copy your collection 
 onto your Wii Memory and create your own specialized Battle Pass, with your own character and background.
 
  
  At least Nintendo compensates PBR's shortcomings with better CGI animation and battle moves this 
 time. Rather than just having your Pokemon make a jerky move and having special effects dazzle 
 us, they actually move out and execute attacks. Another unique touch is the 3Desque HP Meter which 
 appears and is whittled down by the attack effects itself, rather than just showing an 'energy' 
 bar drop like in the DS game .
  
  But the problem here is, your Pokemon don't gain EXP, nor can you switch out items (like Hold items, 
 not healing) , meaning if you want to train your Pokemon, you have to do it on the DS then re-copy 
 the updated information onto the Wii. The blessing here is though, the updates take effect while 
 keeping your Battle Pass still intact.
  
  Another brief compensation is, after beating certain areas, you unlock new Gear, Battle Passes, 
 and earn PokeCoupons (hasn't anyone heard of cash anymore at these places?) to purchase items, 
 or unlock Mystery Gift items.
  
  The only problem here is, most of the unlocked items are rather limited, and the Mystery Gift network 
 has rather a chintzy function. For those unfamiliar with MG, it was a concept originally used in 
 Gold and Silver for the GBC with wireless link. After performing a special stunt [usually telling 
 a certain someone a specific phrase at a location] , you unlock this function where it basically 
 allows you downloads of items from friends, players, and possibly events.
  
  In PBR, the Mystery Gift items are usually TMs and rare rocks, which you could acquire with a Lv. 
 100 Meowth, or a Pokemon with Pickup. Considering the ridiculous pricing for these MGs, you're 
 better off with the Pokemon. But even if you manage battling day and night to earn your elusive 
 Mystery Gift, the way it functions is rather limited.
  
  Apparently when you either purchase, or earn, a Mystery Gift, the game instructs you to immediately 
 activate your DS at the end of the lengthy explanation of how the MG Function works. Regrettably 
 you have about 180 seconds (approx. 3 mins) to activate your DS, select Mystery Gift, choose Via 
 Wireless, and download it into your game.
  
  Otherwise, if you miss this window of opportunity, and forget to do it for two more days, you lose 
 the Mystery Gift forever as well as your PokeCoupons you used to earn them. Though you can suck 
 it up and re-earn the PCoupons, if you ended up earning a Mystery Gift, this can be a major letdown. 
 And as expected, you can only use certain Mystery Gifts once per game, so don't think you can corner 
 the market with Dusk and Dawn Stones.
  
  Focusing on Nintendo WFC. Naturally it uses FCs, I'm suspecting it either uses the FC from your 
 DS game, or generates one online. But it's optional, since like in Mario Kart DS, you can also 
 play random battles as well. My only beef here is, just like in MKDS, opponents can pull out from 
 battle if they like, and there's no record of how many battles you've won or lost. However, for 
 some odd reason, you can procure Friend Battle Passes, which others can use when playing against 
 one another using Rentals and not initiating a DS battle.
  
  Speaking of the DS/Wii ratio, though I know PBR , Diamond and Pearl are completely different games, 
 what's up with the non-leveling? If I recall, the past games allowed you to do so (even the Battle 
 Tower levels in Colloseum and PXD did) as sort of a way of Training your Pokemon in both EV and 
 IV levels.
  
  Meaning here, if you want to improve your Pokemon's stats, you have to painstakingly battle endlessly 
 on your DS, save your game, then copy the updated files to your Wii. Which is rather tedious, though 
 the DS/Wii connection is rather expedient. I feel this kind of detracts from the game, and though 
 the Rental Pass concept is great for those without the games, you can't really select which Pokemon 
 you want.
  
  Then you have the severe lack of minigames which kept the concept from getting old too fast. Even 
 though some seem childish, they were still fun and you got to earn items for playing them as well. 
 Here, the only way to earn anything remotely decent is to play through the games about 100 times. 
 Naturally, this becomes boring -- if not frustrating -- rather quickly. Mainly because not only do 
 the trainers vary each time you play the same area over, sometimes the AI does have a way of cheating 
 now and again. Also the Wii Remote does have a nasty habit of not calibrating at times with this 
 game, where one misclick could have you accidentally either selecting the wrong move, or worse, 
 inadvertently knocking out your Pokemon in a Double Battle.
  
  Overall, PBR is somewhat tolerable, but it seems the Pokemon Company and Nintendo were focusing 
 more towards Online Play than the actual game itself. Personally, I feel if they had at least put 
 a story, or quest mode, into the game, PBR would be a bit more enjoyable to the non-Pearl and Diamond 
 folks out there. Instead PBR comes off appearing as a merchandising ploy for gamers to go out and 
 purchase a DS Lite and game, than the unique experience we hoped for.
  
  Ah, well, there's always Super Smash Bros. Brawl, I suppose... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blazing2007
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jul 10, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  When I was younger, I use to always watch/play anything related to pokemon. After awhile, I thought 
 it was corny. So this year, I decide to try out the new pokemon game, pokemon pearl. Im glad I 
 did. Later this year, another pokemon game came out. This time for the Wii. Pokemon pearl gave 
 the impression that new pokemon game, Pokemon revolution, would be good. I bought the game for 
 $ 50. I want my money back. In this game, all you do is battle random trainers. Your pokemon dont 
 level up. The trainers are easy to defeat. The animation is repetitive. And the soundtrack sucks. 
 A feature in this game allows you to bring your pokemon from the DS game to Revolution to battle. 
 Even with this feature, I still think this game is boring. If you are thinking of buying this 
 game and you dont have any of the DS pokemon games, I encourage you not to. If you have any of 
 the DS pokemon game and youre not a real fan of pokemon, I also encourage you not to buy this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAMEZNOW23
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 10, 2007 1:21 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in this is pretty straight forward, nothing new in the least bit. The game doesn't 
 have a story, it is entirely based around battles in a few coliseums. The game takes place on an 
 island, and that island comes with a ridiculously clever name Poketopia (Note the sarcasm in the 
 previous statement) . The game starts with a lengthy intro with a secretary of sorts introducing 
 you to the controls and different things on the menu. The gameplay is like every other Pokemon 
 game, so there really is no need to explain the battling aspect of the game. You choose fight, 
 choose an attack, and hope your speed stat is good enough! You battle using a Battle Pass these 
 are almost cool with the customizable aspect of them. The backgrounds are ugly, and the picture 
 of your character are highlighted by large stripes. There are two types of Battle Passes in the 
 game, the first and worse of the two is the Rental Pass. You in no way control who is on it, and 
 who is on it isn't exactly good. It consists of some second stage starters, and some other no-name 
 Pokemon. They're all at level 50, and have very average stats. It is highly recommend that you 
 avoid the Rental Pass at all costs! This of course is where the games main problem comes into play. 
 The other Battle Pass option bears the same name as the item, a Battle Pass. This pass consists 
 of a fully customizable avatar, look, and of course Pokemon. The only probably is, you only get 
 one if you copy some Pokemon from either Pokemon Pearl or Diamond. Which raises a question. Why 
 did Nintendo release a $50 game, for their console system, that is basically unplayable unless 
 you own another game for another system? It truly bothers me that they made this game full price, 
 and made it really just an extension of the DS games. That is most definitely the downfall of this 
 game, and the worst part about it. Within the game you can purchase clothes and accessories for 
 your avatar to wear with money you win through coliseum battles.
  
  Graphics:
  The next few sections are going to be significantly shorter then the last one. Mainly because this 
 game is not in the least bit built around the look of it. The graphics are sub par at best here, 
 it's cartoony as they should be, but bad cartoony. The animations are lackluster, and the character 
 models are blocky and all around trashy. What really gets me is the repetitiveness of the animations 
 in battle. When a Pokemon is hit it does the same thing over and over, but here is the worst part. 
 Say it's a killing blow, the Pokemon should fall right then and there, am I right? No, they don't 
 they repeat the same animations, as in Alakazam, he gets pushed back and then levitates back as 
 his usual cocky-esqe self only to fall over when he gets there. That's really not well done in 
 my opinion, not at all. The menu's and presentation are fairly good, and well put together and 
 the characters look pretty neat with addition of clothes once you get into it.
  
  Sound:
  What can I say here? Sound is extremely unimportant in a Pokemon game. It's the same upbeat battle 
 music thats in every other game. It works, and doesn't get annoying too fast. The only thing that's 
 really worth mentioning is the fact that the announcer is repetitive and annoying. He says the 
 same thing over and over, it's a lot like the current Madden games, you just want him to shut the 
 heck up! Although he is the same announcer from the Pokemon cartoon for those of you out there 
 that actually care!
  
  Online gameplay:
  This one was big for me, and really the main reason I went out and bought this game. I wanted to 
 play the first Wii game to have online capabilities. Well I have to say it's not up to snuff. It's 
 actually useless and really a waste of time to all who play the game. You have friend codes, a 
 separate friend code for this game and this game only. You play only random battles, unless you 
 manage to grab someones 16 digit friend code. You play for nothing, no leaderboards, no tournaments, 
 no bragging rights, no nothing. You can't friend a random, you can't talk to anyone, you can't 
 interact at all. Don't get me wrong, the battling is fun, and the only part worth mentioning in 
 the online department of the game. I just wish Nintendo wasn't being so annoying with the friend 
 codes and no interaction policy they have going. So all in all, this is trash, mainly because you 
 have absolutely no way of tracking your battle record, and no way of interacting with others.
 
  
  Value:
  The game has some value, but that's only if you own it's counterparts on the Nintendo DS. It's 
 really useless in every way if you don't own one of those two games. The coliseum battles are fun, 
 and the different arenas have different rules for battling, but in the end it's all the same. So 
 I would say this is a buy if you own Pearl or Diamond, and a stay away from at all costs if you 
 don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirby2198
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 10, 2007 12:06 am PT
Review:  this game is pretty much nothing but battle. unlike diamond or pearl all you can do is battle. 
 there no level ups no training no story, no journey. this game is bascly a pokemon stadium with 
 out the mini game,
  and with out the DS games there wont be much to do. there not much to do with the controls, i barly 
 even move wrist to point at what attack to use or what i should use in battle just push the A button, 
 there your done. if it wasint for the main menu, the pointer would be useless. if it was a little 
 like pokemon stadium the motion sensor could make great mini-game fun and the game itself with 
 more to do.
  
  i would'net say that the graphics are any better. lots of the pokemon have N64 graphics. but thats 
 how it always been. the music of the game sounds rather anoying. rather hard to discribe. i wouldnt 
 recomend this game to those unfamiliar with pokemon, dont get the game if you dont have diamond 
 or pearl. its also to epensive for how this game is, your better off waiting for the price to go 
 down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doominatorx6
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jul 9, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Well, as we all know, Pokemon's popularity is going further and further down the crapper. With 
 the last Pokemon game: Pokemon XD, being such a piece of crap, I had hopes for battle revolution. 
 It looked like a throwback to Pokemon stadium on the n64, one of my favorite Pokemon games... too 
 bad that was just wishful thinking.
  
  
  Graphics - 8/10
  Probably the game's high point. Every Pokemon looks very detailed and other characters look good 
 too. Environments are very bland though.
  
  Sound - 5/10
  Remember the Pokemon sounds way back on the game boy? Here they sound JUST like those. And the 
 characters don't talk either. When my trainer's catchphrase is suck my balls i want him to yell 
 it proudly! But we can't have everything, i guess. Also i want to punch the announcer in the face 
 every time i hear him, but doesn't everybody?
  
  Gameplay - 4/10
  Its just like Pokemon stadium, except it sucks. Theres no wii remote action going on, it's just 
 used as a pointer. There are no fun mini games either, which is the biggest breaker of the game. 
 I'm actually gonna be flat out honest right here, if you don't have a DS and Pokemon diamond/pearl, 
 STAY THE HELL away from this game.
  
  Tilt - 4/10
  I haven't liked Pokemon since 2000. Thats just me though. Even my friend whom i played this monster 
 with (who is a fan) hated it just as much.
  
  Online - Now this is the first wii game with online play, and would you believe how broken it is? 
 It's basically all randomized, there no ranking system or ladder system, connecting to Nintendo 
 WFC takes forever (FYI, my wii is in the same room as my router, and still takes up to 5 minutes) 
 and whenever im winning a match, people always disconnect. Who knew Pokemon world was full of poor 
 sports? I'm not even giving props to this game for online, it's just too flawed.
  
  Overall - Pokemon Battle Revolution is so flawed in so many ways it makes far cry vengeance look 
 like doom 3 by comparison (even though i liked vengeance) It's bad all because of the lack of variety, 
 recycled sound effects, and busted online play. And if you don't have a DS + a Pokemon game, you'll 
 get even less stuff to do. Don't touch this one, even if you have poke-fever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jul 9, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  The Pok&eacute; mon Battle series has always been strongly criticized by most people due to its 
 lack of deep gameplay when compared to the handheld Pok&eacute; mon versions, Pok&eacute; mon fans 
 from all over the world have always disagreed from this kind of barrage since most of them have 
 always had lots of fun doing pointless battles in 3-D with their raised Pok&eacute; mon or with 
 a rental team.
  
  Pok&eacute; mon Battle Revolution is another installment of this best-seller series where you put 
 your Pok&eacute; mon in a arena where they hit each other until somebody wins the battle, differently 
 from the Game Boy and DS versions the battles will lead you to nowhere. You just battle against 
 a bundle of trainers at a stadium until you get a badge and can advance to some more battles, it 
 is just a never ending loop, but it doesnt mean it is fun.
  
  Gamers who have already played the other games from this series will quickly notice a lack of everything 
 in this game as many of the already famous features have just been disabled, first of all the mini-games 
 are gone, now you cant take a break between battles in order to enjoy some nice competition against 
 your friends.
  
  So now there are three modes available, the Battle Mode where you face challengers around the land 
 of Pok&eacute; topia until you can claim all the badges and be the best trainer around the island, 
 the Free Battle where you battle against friends and the anticipated Wi-Fi battle.
  
  The main shortcoming this game has is the fact that in previous games, before battles, you could 
 pick any Pok&eacute; mon that had already been created, with a few exceptions, and I must admit 
 it was fun to rent 6 Pok&eacute; mon and try to build a strong team to battle against your friends 
 or the CPU, this time around it is impossible to do that thanks to Nintendos most stupid creation 
 up-to-date the Battle Passes.
  
  The Battle Passes are kind of Trainer Cards that you select before starting a battle, the problem 
 is that if you dont have a Nintendo DS with a Pok&eacute; mon Diamond or Pearl copy you have to 
 select a preset array of 6 Pok&eacute; mon, you can try whatever do you want but you will have to 
 fight with that team until the end of the game, you will eventually unlock a few new battles passes 
 as you advance but playing with a preset team is just plain stupid!
  
  Obviously if you have a Nintendo DS you can use all Pok&eacute; mon you have caught during your 
 2-D adventure and send them to a storage from which you can select 6 of them and build your customized 
 Battle Pass and play with the team you have raised so carefully.
  
  The best feature of the game is by far its Wi-Fi battles, one can easily say that the DS games 
 have the same game mode for a much better price, but the main difference is that although you still 
 need to exchange Friend Codes with your friends so that you can play against each other, you dont 
 necessarily have to add anyone since you can just connect to the internet and play against random 
 trainers from all over the world and finally discover whether your team is good or not.
  
  The Wi-Fi mode is simple yet quite thrilling, the process of connecting is fast and so is finding 
 opponents, but there is a small problem, the game doesnt keep track of any of your stats, so it 
 is impossible to know how many victories and losses you have had during your online play, it would 
 sure add a lot to the online experience if Nintendo had created some leaderboards for trainers 
 to actually discover who is the best one.
  
  The battles are really exciting because of the great graphics and music. The stadiums are amazing 
 and so does the Pok&eacute; mon sprites, too bad you cant see how all Pok&eacute; mon look like 
 in 3-D if you havent caught every single one of them on your DS game.
  
  The soundtrack is marvelous with some cool songs that vary from techno beats to electric guitars, 
 too bad the Pok&eacute; mons sound is the same as in the handheld versions, and it is pretty obvious 
 that it could be drastically improved.
  
  Pok&eacute; mon Battle Revolutions winds up being a huge disappointment not because of its lack 
 of deepness when compared to the DS games, but because of the lack of features such as mini-games 
 and rental Pok&eacute; mon, the online experience is great but it wont last long since you have 
 to use the same team all the time unless you have raised lots of Pok&eacute; mon to a good level.
 
  
  If you own a DS version this game may be worth a shot but if you dont just stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ApeOverlord
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 9, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Battle Revolution plays like any other Pokemon Stadium/Colloseum game and it succeeds in 
 that area. The next 3D generation gives you a healthy helping of battles with the lack of extra 
 features. First, there aren't any mini games in this game. What!? For a franchise that focuses 
 solely on its cutesy creatures, they don't make any mini games? Just slap in pokemon like Mudkip, 
 Plusle, and Luvdisc and you have yourself a mini game. This was the ultimate disappointment. Despite 
 the mini game loss, some were concerned that this game didn't function like an RPG. What was to 
 be expected? To be a Colloseum clone? Pokemon Colloseum was alright, but I'm glad that they dropped 
 the shadow pokemon act once and for all. PBR is supposed to be a game like the first Pokemon Stadium, 
 to show off your pokemon in glorious 3D.
  
  As far as the battling is concerned, I'd say that it improved alot since the last time. I noticed 
 that the battles moved much quicker than normal and the pokemon stadium series is known for slow 
 reaction times. Second, the attacks look much better. Instead of Hitmonchan punching through air, 
 it actually runs up to the opponent and punches it. Third, the music sounded better than Colloseum's.
 
  
  The best of the new features would be to custom make your character. Hurrah! No more Ash Ketchum 
 cookie cutter clones. The good is that there are thousands of possible costume combinatons, the 
 bad is that there are only 6 character models to chose from. The character choices are a Young 
 Boy, Young Girl, Cool Boy, Cool Girl, Muscle Man, and Little Girl. My only gripe is that I expected 
 to make a character like I would make a Mii. Couldn't they just add in a fat man? In addition, 
 you can customise the catchphrases with no restrictions. Pokemon Battle Revolution is essentially 
 a nightmare for newcomers while it is the ultimate paradise for veterans. The only way to fully 
 enjoy PBR is to have a copy of pokemon Diamond or Pearl. Without either of those games, trainers 
 will be left in the dust. To make matters worse, the rental pokemon are selected for you, you can't 
 select them like in pokemon stadium. That's the major bummer, because some pokemon in the preselected 
 team might not be what some people like. As a game, it still plays nicely and it is very effective 
 for those who've trained their pokemon hard before this game's release. For the price of $50, it 
 is worth battling with the creatures that were worth training. Others might not think it, but veterans 
 are most likely to agree. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arnode
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jul 9, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  First this is $50, it should be $20. The voice announcer is just annoying. It really has no point 
 to the game besides 3-D battling. If you don't have diamond or pearl this game has no point to 
 it. I would made this game a 1/10 review. But this is the very first game that has wi-fi and has 
 use with the DS. I think this game was only made to test wi-fi on the Wii. Do not get this game 
 no matter what you are told. DO NOT GET THIS GAME!!!! Sorry for that it is just that this game 
 is a rip off and I don't want other people to waste their money . This is a tip read a lot of reviews 
 before you get a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jumpondees
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jul 8, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  I'm not going to waste anyones time by giving my take on what this game is all about. Every other 
 published review pretty much says it all. What I will say is, that it's nice that Nintendo finally 
 found a way for the Wii and the DS to interact, but not at the expense of taking Pokemon Coliseum 
 and putting a fresh paint job on it.
  
  Personally, I wasn't going to buy it... I'd get Gamefly to send it to me... that way I'm not out 
 any cash for playing it. PBR is by far the second quickest time I've pulled a game out of my Wii 
 and put back in the mailbox to send back to GF (The quickest would be the Monkey Ball game for 
 the Wii) .
  
  Personally for me, I'm to the point when Nintendo says they are going to put out a Pokemon game 
 on one of it's home consoles, I'm just not excited anymore because every time they try a Pokemon 
 game on a home console, it's totally a huge disappointment. If it wasn't for the (and I'm using 
 this adjective loosely) nice graphics, I would have rated this game lower than a 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newown
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 6, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  I'm one of the Pokemon fans . I really got all of Pokemon games form along time ago . Since Pokemon 
 Red/Blue/Yellow ( I still have all the three )
  I bought Nintendo 64 with ( Pokemon Stadium 1 &amp; 2 and Talk to Pikachu game . Also Pokemon Gold 
 and Silver ) then I bought Ruby and Emerald ... These games was pretty cool and fun ... Its was 
 from along time too . I also bought GameCube with Pokemon Colosseum .... ( I just bought this game 
 for GameCube )
  
  Pokemon Battle Revolution : It's great but it wasn't that much as the other Pokemon games .... 
 It's fun but there is nothing to do after beating the Colosseum ! And about the Wi-Fi battles .... 
 Not really fun after playing on it for few times ... !
  The only great things are the graphic's and the first time of playing to beat the Colosseum . ( 
 The Old Series Was Better )
  
  Question to Nintendo --------------------
  
  Q : Why don't you make Pokemon Stadium 3 ? ( The Pokemon Stadium games are/was fun and great ) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _BapFap_
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jul 6, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  The good: great graphics and sound, tilt seems to be put at just the right place, and it IS fun 
 to see your pokemon on your DS game come to the big screen.
  
  The bad: It is pratically REQUIRED of you to have Pokemon Diamond or Pearl on your DS. frend codes 
 are rediculous, because there is no need for them sice you CAN NOT COMMUNICATE WITH ANY OTHER PLAYER 
 IN ANY OTHER WAY, when playing online.
  
  The game's artwork is great, but... It doesn't sell it to you... the turn based play is annoying 
 as a barrel of slimjims... set on fire... and Chuck Noris...
  The game is almost NO fun without D/P. Plus, this is DEFIANATLY NOT for people who aren't somewhat 
 big fans of Pokemon. If you aren't very fond of pokemon, or you've barely ever heard of it, or 
 just don't care about pokemon much, you are gonna be SO disappointed when you play this game.
 
  
  The only thing yo do is battle with pokemon, in an extreamly chezzy turn based gameplay mode... 
 that about it... It gets REAL old REAL fast.
  If you've already played the other pokemon games for the N64 or GC, then you've already played 
 this game. It is NO different.
  
  I wish I could say something good about it, but thats all there is. I REALLY recommend not getting 
 this game. But if your a REAL BIG pokemon fan,
  rent it first, or MAYBE buy it used. Even if you are a BIG BIG BIG pokemon fan, and you don't have 
 a DS... Don't even rent it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameMaster272
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 6, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is an awesome 3D experience. You can battle your friends wirelessly. or challenge your 
 team in a coloseaum!!! In each coloseaum there are different things you have to do to see what 
 pokemon you are going to battle that coloseum, Such as a wheel you and the coloseum battler put 
 there pokemon on this big whell and you spin the whell and throw the dart an it four times to see 
 what pokemon are on your team to battle that coloseum with and yes you may get some of there pokemon 
 for the coloseum and they could get some of your pokemon!! (But only for the coloseum battle you 
 get your regular pokemon back after the battle!!) I recomend this game it can get boring at times 
 but 95% of the whole is fun!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aerisfreak91
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 6, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I won't snipe at Gamespot or IGN about how Mediocre this game was to them, but I am a HUGE 
 Pokemon fan and I love his game. I'll go through each of the categories Gamespot's telling me to 
 do...
  
  Gameplay - First off, this game is not for anyone but Pokemon fans, if you don't like Pokemon STAY 
 AWAY! And if you like Pokemon but don't have Diamond and Pearl, you would get bored quickly with 
 this game you have to use Rental Pokemon and they aren't very good... so THAT knocks it down a 
 couple points... but, I know this is kind of a CHOOSE YOUR FATE kind of game like you send out 
 your Pokemon and you pick moves and watch them attack, but some people get lots of fun seeing how 
 your moves end up working... plus, the game's ability to be able to customize trainers looks and 
 go online... it's a Pokefan's dream...
  
  Graphics - WOW, the best graphics I've seen of the Wii to date, the scenery looks great, and the 
 Trainers and Pokemon are AWESOME as well, but there are some slowdowns like in Main Street Colosseum, 
 but it's not Big enough to take away from the gameplay.
  
  Sound - The Music can be uplifting and fun. It's a great Techno kind of style that is somewhat 
 fun to listen to. The Announcer... what can I say, he's sometimes funny saying some moves, and 
 some Pokemon names Wrong. (He says muh-RILL accent on the RILL instead of MAIR-rill)
  
  Value - Okay, yeah this game should not have gove for $50, but Just wait another year and it will 
 be down some but I didn't realy care...
  
  TILT - I have een playing this game almost everyday hoping to beat more leader and see the customizable 
 possibilities, and I can't wait to find out more... PLUS, a Surfing Pikachu I Hate to be Biased 
 but I think It's pretty cool.
  
  All in all this game is a NO-NO to a hater or a new person of Pokemon, try the DS games 1st. This 
 is a RENTAL for Casual Pokemon fans. And this a BUY for HARDCORE Poke fans who are very excited 
 for this game.
  
  Try before you buy and this is a fun game for Hardcore Pokemon fans, believe me, try it and you'll 
 love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigaldella10
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jul 6, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  Pokemon battle revolition is more of an extra part to pokemon pearl. I got the game and was searching 
 for a story mode then i figured out wow there is no story mode. I was let down big time. If your 
 thinking of buying this game, dont, its not worth it all it really is, is a arena for pokemon, 
 on a big tv, WAHO! so i would highly suggest not buying this game. If you really want to play pokemon 
 then just buy pearl or dimond, dont bother spending $50 on a $20 game. If you really want to get 
 this game wait it our and buy it when its an old game and buy it for $20 then it maybe would be 
 worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkhedgehog148
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jul 5, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  This game was a letdown for me.
  I thought it would be an AWESOME game, and I'd been waiting for it since 2006. I also had a Diamond 
 version, and thought this would be excellent. Alas, I was wrong. It's like Pokemon Stadium and 
 Stadium 2, which I really didn't like that much. I admit, the battles here are way better than 
 they were.
  The only really good thing about the game is that if you own Diamond or Pearl, you can transfer 
 some good stuff to your game.
  Now, I'll break down the scores for each catagory:
  
  Gameplay-4. If you don't have Diamond or Pearl, you really won't like the game too much.
  
 
  Graphics-10. I have to admit, these are the best graphics I've seen on the Wii to date. They're 
 excellent, and now Pokemon actually make physical contact.
  
  Sound- 7. The music in the game is really good, and it sets the mood in certain situations. The 
 announcer this time is way better than the old one. Though if you don't like the anime, you probably 
 won't like him at all. He's the same one as the anime's narrator.
  
  Replay Value: 5. If you have Diamond or Pearl, you may keep coming back, but if not, you probably 
 will sell the game back soon.
  
  Overall: 5.7: Mediocre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arod1122
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 5, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  This game really just caters to either major fans of the pokemon franchise or people who own either 
 pokemon diamond or pearl versions. If you do not have either of these games, this game will be 
 practically worthless to you. If you have either or both diamond or pearl versions then this game 
 will be great for you. The great part is the online play because the (if you wanna call it) adventure 
 mode is pretty easy. Battling the colloseums is a synch. The adventure mode is the only thing that'll 
 cater to non-owners of the D/P versions of pokemon because if you use rentals online, you better 
 prepare to lose miserably 98% percent of the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merch
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jul 5, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  pkmn battle revolution really and i mean really pissed me off good thing i rented it unless ur 
 a hardcore pkmn fan this game if u can call it a game is for u. when i mean this isnt a game its 
 basacly just a 3d battling expansion for ur diamond or pearl or in other words a pkmn stadium 3.
 
  there we go its not a game its a 3d battle simulator for ur ds games.
  
  pros:
  batlte with 3d pkmn online also on a big screen.
  
  cons:
  battle battle battle too much 
 see what i mean its a 3d battle simulator for ur pearl or diamond
  the graphics still could have used some work but ther ok
  online is weak its like a wii games 
 online beta lol
  short 3d battle simulator
  im actually pissed that it was the first online game in japan and america for wii difficulty
 
  very easy
  learning curve 0 mins
  time spent 4 hours
  its a rip off for 50 $ maybe if they sold it for 10$
  gameplay is repetative
  graphics meh 
 gamecube ish
  sound is good
  value i give it a 1 for being there for pkmn fans
  5.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metaknight36
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 5, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  this game is a very good game i still think diamond and pearl are better but only for one simple 
 reason story line. pbr has really no story line you go to some island named poketopia and you battle 
 no catching in the beginning you get some crappy starter pass so yeah if you have diamond or pearl 
 youll kick butt in the beginning , you can copy your pocket monsters and put them in your battle 
 pass which consits of 6 pokemon. then you battle for poke cupons and you could dress up your avatar. 
 the good part about this game is online only one problem if you made your battle pass with any 
 legendaries take em out nintendo banned them from online. all in all pokemon battle revolution 
 makes for a solid pokemon experience its not the best pokemon game but its a very solid game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luigispatch
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 5, 2007 1:22 am PT
Review:  I mean the the people that say its not worth it are pretty dumb. Like the dude badgerhunter can't 
 even spell worth. XP. But also I like to try out new pokemon, and try to make my team better. When 
 this game was first thought of it was just an excuse to try out connection with the wii to ds. 
 And also playing people online. Which they got to work well. I also like the idea of being able 
 to make your characters a little different. Because most of there games you arn't able to choose 
 what your character looks like. I like how you can show off all the work from your older games 
 (if you didn't use cheats like, action replays) . Overall, I say that this game should get a higher 
 score for the thought and the main purpose of this game.
  PS. I play on wi-fi and will challenge anyone that comes up. My characters name is Beni. Bring it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Gamer55
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 5, 2007 12:17 am PT
Review:  Like I said in the deck there were only two reasons i bought this game and they were for space 
 and because i actually have a Diamond. I have been a pokemon fan since I was 7 and im 13 now and 
 i've seen pokemon come through the ages. Hell, I still have hundreds of cards in my drawer from 
 when i was 7. But just like Coliseum and Gale of Darkness, Battle Revolution is just another pokemon 
 holder. I give this one an Ehh? rating. You have got to be the biggest pokemon fan ever to even 
 give it a ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gojoepalmer
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 4, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Battle Revolution is better than it is said to be. The wi-fi connection, copying your Diamond 
 and Pearl pokemon, customizing your trainer, and using your ds as a controller is pretty good. 
 It reminiscences previous pokemon console games. What is more exciting is its ability to copy your 
 pokemon from Diamond and Pearl. Customizing your own trainer is just as fun. And the wi-fi connectivity 
 is pretty interesting. And perhaps my personal favorite thing about it is if you beat all the colloseum's 
 you get to transfer a Pikachu that knows surf to Diamond and Pearl. However there is some bad things 
 about it though. The lack of story mode is one thing I'd add. Although they seem essential the 
 friend codes can be troublesome.
  
  I'd recommend fans and maybe some newcomers to try this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilshortydan12
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jul 4, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  After long awaitment, Pokemon Battle Revolution finally arrives though its by far possibly the 
 worst pokemon game to ever come out. After all that hype and talk, the dev team did liitle to improve 
 this game from the gamecube versions. The game pretty much is actually the same but with a bit 
 enhanced graphics that look good but not great. The dev team did absolutely nothing to change the 
 gameplay. They did nothimg with the motion sensing controls except to choose your move or attack. 
 The graphics have been improved but the game really still does not look as good as it could. The 
 pokemon look god but everything else from the environments to the people in game dont look as god. 
 The sound isnt exactly either very good. The announcer can get very annoying and the pokemon dont 
 sound very good either. The only thing that really gives battle revoluton replay value is that 
 you can connect to the ds but it doesnt work very well. This is also the first game on the wii 
 to have online though online is barebones and there aint much to do. The story mode gets very repetitive 
 after a short while so you wont want to even finish the story. The game also gets very boring quickly. 
 Overall, it being the first online game for the wii doesnt help the game and the boring and repetitive 
 combat really hurt the game. Very few pokemon fans will be able to enjoy this game. Unless you 
 were a big fan of the prvious pokemon games forthe gamecube and dont mind repetitve gameplay, you 
 might just like this game. With no motion sensing controls, that also just hurts the game and makes 
 it even worse than what it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skilanky64
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 4, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  Gamespot, Gamespot, Gamespot...
  
  How many times are we going to disagree on a solid Wii title? First Red Steel, which rocked more 
 than you thought, then Mario Party 8, and now Pokemon Battle Revolution! Come on, guys, you're 
 starting to act like those movie reviewers that gave Transformers low reviews. All games, like 
 all movies, can't be The Piano or The Crying Game. 
  
  Seriously though, this is a fine video game. Sure it has it's faults and can make some people think 
 they've been robbed of their hard-earned Mr. Grant, but really, you're not. Still, I don't think 
 it's worth all that much for 50 bucks, go to Costco, BJs, or Sam's Club and get it for $43.99 like 
 I did.
  
  However, this is beside the point. If you're not a Pokemon fan, stop reading this review. Seriously, 
 go. I'm sure there's a $600 Sony Paperweight that you can play lackluster games on, or something 
 like that. Seriously, 600 bucks? You can get better value for an X-Box 360 or Wii, and you'll get 
 more bang for your buck! Again, this is beside the point. Again. I keep getting distracted. Well, 
 let's look at Battle Revolution.
  
  Some small points:
  
  This is the first Wii Connect 24 Game to be released so I can send my Blastoise to pwn on a GLOBAL 
 SCALE. This is great news.
  
  This allows for cool items and rare Pokemon to be sent to your Diamond and Pearl game that you 
 can't acquire in these games, such as the King's Rock, Deepsea Scale and Deepsea Tooth, and, of 
 course, the Volt Tackle Surfing Pikachu, a Legend in it's own right.
  
  Cool graphics. Use the move Rain Dance and see what I'm talking about.
  
  It's always cool 
 to see your awesome Pokemon on the big screen, and they really captured size as a graphic factor. 
 For example, I just played a mixed match using a Roselia and my Lugia. Massive size difference, 
 reflected in the game.
  
  Also, the game utilizes new kinds of battles to mix the **** up! For example, fortune battles put 
 the parties of both trainers on a dart board and force the player to make decisions using Pokemon 
 he's unfamiliar with! (However, it does suck when they take your Celebi, and Kyogre and give you 
 Charmeleon and Snover. That was a bad match...)
  
  Did I mention the DS connectivity? Well, it's always fun to use them as controllers and DESTROY 
 your friends!
  
  Did I mention that Pikachu? Sweeeeeet. =D
  
  Some cons, however:
  
  Game can be repetitive and drag on at points.
  
  WiiConnect 24 isn't that widely used yet. 
 I'll give it time though.
  
  Not that many rewards for beating the game... unless I don't know about them.
  
  Announcer's 
 voice, while funny, annoys me after a few hours.
  
  
  Other than those, it's a really good game! Any pokemon fan will enjoy it, and if you're not one, 
 like I said. STOP READING THIS REVIEW! GO PLAY THE DARKNESS.... it rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakonline
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jul 4, 2007 5:53 am PT
Review:  I a just going to come out front and say i love games if i was bill gates i would buy every game 
 in the world, which would mean i need a life.
  
  Pokemon the best game ever made they put it on all Nintendo consoles it is nearly as popular as 
 mario.
  
  The good.
  ummmmmmm got nothing except the tv you can plug into.
  
  The bad this dosn't have a story line people besides the dude trying to capture dum and weird creatures.
 
  
  under any circumstance do not play this game well sorry guy but i gotta make 100 words so gtkegjknl 
 dfjkv def dfkj jshfn s fjhsfgdjkfgsk ksjfg kjefsd ksnkjs dnkjsdnvfksjfg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ugotplayed64
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 3, 2007 10:04 pm PT
Review:  game is very dissappointing!!! i bought this the day it came out and i must say its not that good 
 at all. im already ready to trade it in. which i will do because its just going to end up sitting 
 there all the time collecting dust. save your money for mario strikers charged coming out which 
 is going to be great! if you truly want to play a pokemon game then play the ds version which is 
 GOOD! this game actually turned out to be way overrated. there is no replay value really whatsoever 
 of this game because well the single player is just horrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoysoy
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 3, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  It would have been fine if they kept the way it was for the N64 and better looking attacks. Most 
 pokemon have the exact same polygons but just a more shiny texture, total let down on that. Come 
 on.... whyyyyy would you not add the minigames?? atleast they wouldve added some more value to it. 
 Pokemon games for home console went way down hill when colloseum came out for the game cube. Keeps 
 getting worse. they really just need to add on/tweak what they had for the stadium games and it 
 would of been fine. The only cool things? being able to create your own Batlle Pass and battle 
 random people anytime. Pretty much an expansion for diamond and pearl owners. Saves us the trouble 
 of looking for friend codes. Also, theres not even that many colloseums! oh, and the new BGMs suck, 
 whatever happened to the classic battle themes??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SLjimbolian
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 3, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  If you're not a Pokemon fan or just never picked up a Pokemon game until now, you're pretty much 
 screwed (such as myself.) The hardest of hardcore Pokemon fans will get the most out of PBR, but 
 this is a rather underwhelming game even for a Pokemon game. As mentioned before, if this is your 
 first Pokemon game, avoid this one at all costs. You'll need a copy of Pokemon Diamond/Pearl handy 
 if you plan to purchase PBR. It's not hard to see PBR is another classic case of rushed out in 
 order to meet deadline. I got my fingers crossed for Mario Strikers Charged to be a much better 
 online experience because PBR sees Nintendo limping out of the starting gate of online gaming. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspgmr
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jul 4, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  60 bucks (canadian) for a game that basically just lets you import your pokemon from diamond/pearl 
 is just too much. pokemon br does this + let you use your ds as a controller and is the first game 
 to feature online play. just because pokemon br is the first game to feature online mode doesnt 
 technically mean that its good. most of the time when u try to connect to the internet you reach 
 an error screen and hasve to try again. the only nice thing imo that i saw was the visuals. the 
 game uses nice effects and the character models are fairly decent. overall pokemon br is a below 
 average game which you shouldnt be picking up unless you find one in a bargain bin for 25bucks 
 or cheaper and even then its not worth getting unless you have diamond/pearl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badgerhunter
Rating: 1.3
Date: Jul 3, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  It is a horrible game with the same gameplay as Pokemon Stadium. The online play is full of time 
 lapses because of the connection, so it makes the gameplay longer and more boring. The single player 
 mode is repetitive and is pointless after about 2-3 matches. They could have done more with the 
 way the Pokemon attack. It just shows them doing basic movements. They could have shown them actually 
 charging and attacking them. The gameplay is too easy to learn, and it doesn't make it much of 
 a challenge. Maybe the only good thing that came out of this is that it is the first online capable 
 Wii game, and the DS connectivity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerodragones
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 3, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Battle Revolution for the Nintendo Wii pretty much allows you to take your favorite pokemon 
 that you have trained on Diamond and Pearl versions for the DS, and to battle with them on the 
 big screen in rich 3D style. The Graphics are great for this game, and being the first online title 
 for the Wii, it has its perks. However for those that are not into the franchise, it lacks a real 
 playable value.
  
  Back in the early days of this franchise, Nintendo created a battle simulator for the N64 called 
 Pokemon Stadium. This game aloud the play to transfer their pocket monsters from their GameBoy 
 systems, and play them on their TV in simplistic 3D graphics. Now what this game lacked in playable 
 value it made up for in competitive play. You could battle your friend side by side, and just have 
 a great time. It was more of a party game then anything else.
  Pokemon Stadium 2 was similar to its predecessor, just adding more of these lovable creatures from 
 the Silver and Gold versions. One thing that was nice about the Stadium series was the fact that 
 along with battling in the traditional Pokemon style, you could also challenge your friend in fun 
 mini games featuring these same characters. However the major draw back to this was one, if you 
 did not have a Game Boy along with a version of the game, or even if you did not have a lot of 
 friends to play with, the series lacked much of a spark and replay value.
  
  Now in Battle revolution, you can play online, so not having a lot of friends who can come over 
 is pretty much no excuse with the friend code trading and even the random WFC match up. The nice 
 thing about the WFC battles are that all pokemon are moved to level 50 so there is no risk of getting 
 that one jerk using a level 100 mew or something to that effect. It is more about what types of 
 pokemon you use and what moves you use as well as when. The down side is that wifi battles are 
 very slow paced so if you are fighting someone who is using monsters that are pretty well matched 
 against yours, the battle can get very time consuming. But that is alright in some retrospect as 
 it is over a wireless connection. The good thing is still you can play with people all over the 
 world.
  
  Single player game play on the other hand is not much to be thrilled over. The battles are very 
 repetitive, and really do not increase in difficulty no matter how far in the game you go. For 
 example, if I am using a team that has a good amount of one hit knock outs, that is going to happen 
 pretty much through out the whole game if I use that same team. So one can see it would get very 
 tiresome very quickly. The coliseum matches (The format you battle in) do come with different rule 
 sets, like best out of five and so forth. However this mix of varity realy does nothing to keep 
 things interesting. The only major plus to Pokemon Battle Revolution other then the WiFi matches 
 is the graphic sceme. The colors are rich and vibrant, the battle fields look really nice, and 
 it is just nice to see giant pokemon look giant compared to your trainer avatar. The customizable 
 featurs of the trainer are nice too as you can dress them up to how you want. But again that realy 
 does not add much to wanting this game.
  
  I would recommend only those who really like the Pokemon series and who have a DS with either Diamond 
 or Pearl versions to really conceder buying this game. It lacks realy anything that would keep 
 someone who does not play the pokemon series interested. A good value if you are a fan, a real 
 waist of money if you are not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantom4567
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 1:09 am PT
Review:  At first, Pokemon Battle Revolution was very popular because of sweet graphics and Wii WI-FI and 
 we all just got to haved it, and I bought it the instant it came out and I was expecting to be 
 blown away by this game .... boy was I wrong!
  
  This game is a Deja-Vu from the past! Hello, Pokemon Stadium anyone? At least, Pokemon Stadium 
 is a LOT better than this! This is coming from from a guy who likes Pokemon very much!
  
  In this game, you can't choose your own rental Pokemon like in the past, they give you a stupid 
 Battle Pass with its own Trainer and random Pokemon and you have to play with those Poke. without 
 question... that sucks pretty bad... or you can transfer your Pokemon party from Diamond/Pearl to 
 the game and play with those with your own custom Trainer, so if you don't have D/P or a DS, forget 
 about this game, even if your a huge Pokemon fan! Its also too short, you'll finish it in 3 to 
 4 hours...
  
  The only things I like from the game is the sweet-looking Pokemon with the new graphics and at 
 least, the announcer is less annoying than the other one... and also, play WI-FI on your TV with 
 people around the world..
  
  Thats all I got, this game is only good for a rental if you don't have Poke. D/P, but if you have 
 them, don't buy it nor rent it, its not worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobbyh23
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jul 2, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Battle Revolution is Nintendo's first online compatible game for the Wii. The game sets 
 you as an up and coming trainer visiting the theme park of Poketopia; a small island where there 
 are multiple colloseums to fight in. In order to beat the game you must face all nine of them and 
 beat the leaders of each one. Each colloseum has a different set of rules. after beating each colloseum 
 you gain points which you can spend on new gear to customize your trainer, or send items to your 
 Diamond and Pearl game.
  
  But in order to start out on your quest to conquer all the colloseums, you first need a battle 
 pass. If you have Diamond or Pearl for the DS you're in pretty good shape, but if you don't, tough 
 luck, because you need Diamond or Pearl to make this game playable. If you don't have either one, 
 the gameplay is practically cut in half. You get to choose from six rental passes, which leaves 
 you stuck with really wimpy Pokes. You also are not allowed to customize your trainer, and are 
 stuck with only the six base trainer types.
  
  The gameplay is basically an expansion pack for Diamond and Pearl. It's fun being able to see all 
 your Pokemon on the big screen, but it's practically like playing your DS on the Wii. The Wiimote 
 is used for navigating between menus, and..... navigating through more menus. Yeah it's basically 
 like D/P except without the RPG portion.
  
  Graphically is where this game stands out. It has some of the best graphics for a Wii game that 
 I've seen so far, but some of the Pokes look really cool, while others look like they did from 
 the gamecube games.
  
  Online play isn't much as it should be. You can either battle with a friend, or with a random person. 
 Random battles always use the exact same set of rules every time. Nintendo won't even let you see 
 the custom catchphrases of other trainers, and you can't even see your own! Friend battles give 
 you more freedom with the rules, and it also enables the use of custom catchphrases. But puting 
 in friend codes in the first place is annoying anyway, I mean, come on, this is the Wii, not the 
 DS! Why should we have to use friend codes in the first place? (But, that's a topic for another 
 day...)
  
  So if you have to get PBR, get it. I'm sure most die-hard Pokefans already did, so if you aren't 
 one of those, I really don't recommend it..... Unless you want a Surfing Pikachu. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silent_seaxx
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 2, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Pok&eacute; mon Battle Revolution
  Release Date: June 25, 2007
  Review Date: July 2, 2007
  
  The first Pok&eacute; mon game for the Wii turns out to be a letdown. The game takes place in 
 a theme park called Pok&eacute; topia, a battling ground for all kinds of competitive trainers.
 
  
  Too bad that's the only thing it has.
  
  Usually, theme parks have fun games for sheer relaxing enjoyment, and usually there's a theme of 
 difficulty, as well with a story behind each ride. Something to make memories out of.
  
  Pokemon Battle Revolution is a theme park that's far from being finished. Might as well put up 
 signs saying that it's not ready, because the game is not ready for the world. Let alone, the online 
 one.
  
  The gameplay to this game is super simple, I'm sure anyone who can move and point as well as read 
 can master it. Basically knowing the buttons on the Wiimote and having point sensitivity will allow 
 you to figure out how to play the game. The strategy behind the game however, is much more complex 
 -- but this is about the game itself, not the fine details of it. The game has no story. You battle 
 to win coupons to accessorize your trainer (limited amounts of models) or you can buy items that 
 you get only one of in the D/P games. That's it.
  
  Graphics look amazing in this game. Best that the Wii offers so far. The moves look realistic, 
 and the Pokemon do as well. The trainers look fine, and the stadiums.. absolutely amazing. Solar 
 beam is a great move that shows off these graphics. The sound is somewhat calm, though I must say 
 the connecting to WFC music is quite annoying after a while. Announcer is the only sound in the 
 game aside from Pokemon cries. His voice is alright, but his phrases are utterly repetitive.
  
  The game is quite short. Online capabilities are really flawed. There's no record system, it's 
 just a normal battle. No drama, no excitement, no flavor.
  
  Pok&eacute; mon Battle Revolution is just Pok&eacute; mon on the Wii. Complete with amazing 3-D graphics, 
 trainer models, amazing backgrounds, online capability, simple controls.. but nothing else. No 
 flow, no substance. It's showy but it's got nothing deep inside. Like I said before, it's a theme 
 park disaster just waiting to happen. If we compare it to a roller coaster, it's one that's easy 
 to get on, it's short.. and it stops in the middle of it. Forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrFidget2
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 3, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Pok&eacute; mon Battle Revolution is not only the first pok&eacute; mon game to come to the Wii, 
 but also the first online multiplayer game on the system. Sadly thats just about all thats new 
 in this game. When you start off the first thing you need is a trainer card. The trainer card will 
 carry all your information, including your pok&eacute; mon team. The game gives you a rental card 
 right out of the gate, but to get the most out of this game you really need to create your own 
 using pok&eacute; mon from Diamond or Pearl. If you dont have either of those, your stuck with 
 the rental cards and the game is going to get real hard real fast. If you do have Diamond or Pearl, 
 you can make a custom trainer card and create copies your pok&eacute; mon to use in the game. You 
 can also customize you trainer in a kind of inverse mii type fashion, meaning you have control 
 of clothing and accessories but not facial features. There is also an option to customize the text 
 that comes on the screen whenever your trainer does something in battles, such as win, lose, or 
 switch pok&eacute; mon. They dont appear in random wi-fi battles though. The single player mode 
 consists of a number of different coliseums. Most with new battle modes. Few of said modes really 
 do anything to change the standard proven formula pok&eacute; mon has used for years, but some do 
 make things a little interesting. For instance one coliseum puts you and your opponents pok&eacute; mon 
 on a roulette and where you drop the ball determines your pok&eacute; mon and the order. Its an 
 interesting concept but you quickly learn how to time your release to get the pok&eacute; mon you 
 want, defeating the purpose. Perhaps the most promising mode is the martial arts style. You select 
 the order of five of your pok&eacute; mon and then have a series of one on one battles, where the 
 first person to three wins, wins. As the first game on the Wii to have online play it leaves a 
 lot to be desired. Your online choices are limited to friend or random battles. Random battles 
 are against players that, for the most part, all use the same team filled with legendaries and 
 perhaps their starter pok&eacute; mon. Friend battles require you to register the corresponding 
 numeric code for each friend. The code is different from the Wiis friend code so you will have 
 to register people already on your system. The battle modes on wi-fi are your standard 3 on 3 singles, 
 and 4 on 4 doubles, and thats about it. All in all Pok&eacute; mon Battle Revolution is little 
 more than an expansion pack for Pok&eacute; mon Diamond and Pearl. A rather empty expansion pack 
 at that. There is almost nothing in this game that wasnt already in Diamond and Pearl, and at 
 full retail price even the most loyal pok&eacute; maniacs are sure to feel cheated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -PresidentEvil-
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jul 2, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  First off, if you do not have Pokemon Diamond/Pearl. The single player sucks. I am very disappointed 
 with the game, and had high hopes since when I loved the N64 titles. A bad game to showcase Nintendo's 
 first console Wi-Fi.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay has been done over and over. You would expect this right now from a handheld title 
 since they are just 2D, but you would think a 3D next-gen console would have a little pokemon movement. 
 Well, it does not. That is about it for the gameplay, because there is really nothing else to show 
 from it.
  
  I give the gameplay 5.0. Why not a 1? Because this is Pokemon's old gameplay, and I do not want 
 to make it sound bad. Graphics:
  Impressive. From what I see, the Wii can offer way more, but right now, it is one of the best. 
 But to me, a bad game can have great graphics, and this is a very good example. But, if you want 
 good graphics for the Wii, you got it.
  
  I give the graphics a 7.0 because it is good, but not great. Still, fantastic for the Wii right 
 now.
  
  Sound:
  Horrible. Not only is it bad, but it could have been way better. I mean come on, the DS version 
 has the Pokemon's actual voice. This is the Wii. A console should be better than a handheld! It 
 is the same battle system! The announcer has good voice acting, but he can get annoying. Also, 
 the game's music is nothing to praise.
  
  I gave the sound a 4.0 because basically, the DS's little speakers should not be better than your 
 TV's speakers. Absolutely disappointing.
  
  Value:
  The value of this game all depends on how much you spent playing Pokemon Diamond/Pearl's Wi-Fi. 
 Trust me when I say this, you will spend 1 hour at best not playing Wi-Fi with this game. The customize 
 the player is a big plus, but when you can't play with your Mii or you can't make yourself in the 
 game, which just plain sucks.
  
  I give the value a 5.0 because it all depends on the person, and you will get tired with the Wi-Fi 
 sooner or later, and than it will be like burning your $50.
  
  Tilt:
  Nothing really makes me want to play this game. Nothing. Bad modes except Wi-Fi, and that is nothing. 
 Depends on the player, but it seems I am the majority of people.
  
  I give the tilt a 3.0 because there is no tilt. No reason to play this game, really.
  
  Overall:
 
  Overall I am very disappointed with Pokemon Battle Revolution. I was excited about this game. 
 Everything. The Wi-Fi, single player, the graphics, everything. $50? Not even worth $20. Trust 
 me when I say this, do not buy it. Don't even rent it. It is not worth your hard earned cash. If 
 you really don't believe me, rent it. I don't want you to spend $50 on a crap game. Overall, a 
 bad game to showcase Wii's Wi-Fi, and I hope they will get better from here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liljio14
Rating: 1.4
Date: Jul 19, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  The Battle was fun, so we did a few more. Then we decided to check out the main part of the game. 
 Oh... just more battles. Is there a story mode? No. Mini-games? No. Any stats? No. Trophies? No. 
 Anything besides watching battles in 3-D that I've been watching in 2-D on my DS for the last 130 
 hours? No. I did get a new application for my Pokedex. It's called the Let Down Meter. It filled-up 
 immediately. You can get one to for $50.
  
  P. S. the game is a waste of time dont bother with it wait till a huge price drop 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheEdgeOfSoul
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 2, 2007 4:01 am PT
Review:  When I first picked up Pokemon Battle Revolution, I was essentially expecting to find the same 
 game as Pokemon Stadium, Stadium 2, and Coliseum, simply upgraded to the Wii and made compatible 
 with Diamond and Pearl. What I got was something infinitely worse. First off, the graphics are 
 subpar to say the least, barely improved over Coliseum. There is very little detail in the pokemon, 
 and the animations are pretty much the same as they were in older games, very few different movements 
 from each pokemon, just paired with different special effects depending on the move executed. There's 
 still no REAL contact or interaction between pokemon, and the reactions to getting hit are all 
 pretty much the same. The special effects on the moves look pretty amazing, though, particularly, 
 the rain effects are quite impressive. The single player mode is a serious of coliseum battles 
 that are similar to gym battles. Each one has a somewhat unique set of rules, but they're essentially 
 all a series of trainer battles followed by a bout with a leader, who's not even guaranteed to 
 be as hard as the fighters that preceded. After you win, your reputation improves and you get Coupon 
 points, used mostly to obtain new pokemon and items, and further customize your trainer avatar, 
 who can also be given personalized phrases for all the situations that arise in battle. However, 
 there are only really 6 basic avatars to choose from, 3 for girls and three for guys, and from 
 there you can change skin, hair, and clothing. And the personalized phrases cannot be seen online.
 
  
  But the single player, however awful, is really not even the worst part about this game. The multiplayer, 
 what most gamers would be purchasing this game for, is nothing short of atrocious. The foremost 
 problem is the loss of any real four player mode. That's right... unlike previous titles in the 
 line, this one lacks four player simultaneous play. The only four player mode is a tournament mode, 
 in which you add only four players to fight a series of one on one battles. And by series of course... I 
 mean 2. You can play with wither your Wiimotes, or wirelessly with your DS, though on the DS you 
 don't get your personalized avatar and with the Wiimote the other player can of course see what 
 you're doing, subtracting to the strategy aspects. Also, there's no co-op multiplayer, like the 
 battle tower in Diamond and Pearl. So if you're looking to get this game for an enhanced multiplayer 
 experience, you'll be disappointed.
  
  The only real upgrade to multiplayer besides the graphics boost is the addition of online play 
 with people BESIDES your friends. However, the matchmaking system for this is, well, almost non-existent. 
 You must do level 50 battling, which is fine, but options would be nice, and you can only choose 
 between 3 pokemon singles battles or 4 pokemon doubles matches... you can never choose 6 pokemon. 
 Not only that, but the programming in the game to stop cheating is minimal. If the game thinks 
 the Pokemon transferred from your DS are hacked, then they will automatically be turned into unusable 
 bad eggs upon transfer. The problem is, the game only really catches you if you cranked up your 
 stats to absurd amounts on all fronts. But as long as the cheater is SOMEwhat reasonable, then 
 the game doesn't take issue. The VAST majority of times playing online, you'll find yourself playing 
 teams of shiny legendary pokemon with hacked stats. This will inevitably kill the drive of about 
 honest players to play online, even if it does feel good to take down an obvious cheater with a 
 legitimate team. Though in my experience, only about one in ten players online don't cheat, if 
 that.
  
  All in all, I couldn't really recommend this game to the most die-hard Pokemon fans. The graphics 
 are better than DS, but still lackluster, there are more multiplayer modes on the DS, The single 
 player mode on the DS is obviously more expansive, and although there is online matchmaking, it's 
 marred by HORDES of cheaters and has only 2 types of battle modes. Couple all of that with a fifty 
 dollar price tag, and you've got a game that nobody should consider going near. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 2:31 am PT
Review:  If I had to describe Pokemon Battle Revolution, I would have to say that it's not bad for a game 
 with a lot of firsts. First to have Wi-Fi battle with and without friend codes, first to use the 
 DS, and first to be able to transfer from DS to Wii. There's no story mode like Colosseum and XD. 
 Instead, it's just pure colosseum battles. You can create your own character from the types of 
 characters that are provided like giving them clothes and stuff. Some of the battles are annoying 
 and repetitive but there's new attack animation so that's cool. This game is more convienient to 
 have if you have Diamond or Pearl for the DS or DS Lite because the rental pokemon aren't great 
 at all. Especially for the final battles. In the end, it wasn't an amazing game and the only things 
 you can do is play the extras and/or log into NIntendo Wi-Fi and battle with someone or with friends 
 if you have someone's friend codes. Not to say it wasn't a bad game at all because it looked good 
 but there should've been more than what was offered. Maybe a Wi-Fi tournament and to use the DS 
 other than in DS Battle mode. I'm through with Pokemon anyway. I'm 20 and too old to be playing 
 it now. but in a way, I still got it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superluigi96
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 1, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Remember Pokemon Stadium? Oh those were fun days, battling my Pokemon Yellow team up against my 
 siblings in 3D. We even had minigames to play when the battling was done. Ah yes, fun times.
  
  Ooh, and remember Pokemon Colosseum? The story mode wasn't as great, but catching all of those 
 Shadow Pokemon sure was rewarding!
  
  If those are the kinds of memories you have of your old Pokemon console games, you might be a little 
 more than slightly disappointed when you find out that the newest installment has cut all the extras 
 and given us a pure and simple battling game, and little more.
  
  While this may disappoint some fans, battle enthusiasts will note that much more care has been 
 put into the feel of the battles. A battle is a battle no matter where it takes place, but when 
 it takes place on a console instead of a handheld the aesthetic expectations are a little higher. 
 Pokemon Colosseum came up short of these expecations, recycling a lot of character models from 
 the N64 games and with music that makes you want to play with the sound turned off, not to mention 
 bad camera angles and some glitchy animations. The battles on Pokemon Battle Revolution, look and 
 sound much nicer. The music is much more battle-appropriate, the attack animations are much smoother 
 and refined (Pokemon will actually approach each other to attack now, rather than just stay in 
 one place) . While some character models are still the same as they were in the N64 games, most 
 of these are either Pokemon that are rarely used (liked Drowzee) or Pokemon that pretty much looked 
 spot-on even with the N64 graphics (like Golem) .
  
  The game also has Wi-Fi capabilities, in which you... well, battle of course. Unlike Diamond and 
 Pearl, Battle Revolution has a matchmaking service that lets you battle live with other trainers 
 (Diamond and Pearl only let you battle against a trainer's CPU-controlled Pokemon in the Battle 
 Tower) . While not ground-breaking in any way, the CPU battle tend to get boring after a little 
 while, so this is often a fun distraction for a little while.
  
  Of course, if all you're going to do in a game is battle, it's probably good to have some Pokemon 
 with you. While the game does offer rental Pokemon, they aren't very good, and it's going to be 
 an uphill battle beating the game with them, not to mention embarassing to battle on Wi-Fi. If 
 you don't have Diamond or Pearl, then go buy it first. It's $20 cheaper and a much better stand-alone 
 Pokemon experience. If you do have Diamond or Pearl, however, it's definitely worth at least renting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mario2295
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 1, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  This was the first online Wii game and it does'nt dissapoint.... or at least I wish I could say 
 that. This game was not very good, it had good parts like the ds funtions were good and the custimizable 
 characters were cool, but the online battles are very laggy and can take a long time to attack 
 with your pokemon. Overall it had pretty good singleplayer but Nintendo needs to fix the multiplayer 
 a bit, like tommarow and it would be really cool if nintendo realeased DLC for it on the Wii shop 
 channel. You should buy this game if you really like pokemon and dont care how long it takes too 
 fight online. mario2295 xboxlivegamertag wario2295. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megaman_Cid
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 1, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Once again pokemon has created another great game and stuck to its classic roots.
  The graphics are intense... really intense. The create a character mode was nice aswell. Although 
 the game great it did have some downfalls.
  The game did not include a story mode, and did not add mini games which made pokemon stadium 1&amp;2 
 so great. Also there was nothing too interactive with the Wii format besides picking moves and 
 modes. The major dissapointment i found was that there was no rental pokemon. You had to choose 
 default pokemon and win to gain the others. But the rentals is another thing that made previous 
 pokemon games good, a custom team. At least that way, people without D/P could still enjoy the 
 variety of pokemon. All downfalls aside, the game is still a success in my books. The coliseum 
 mode and creating a custom character was a good feature so players didn't have to stick to one 
 plain person. For all pokemon fans who enjoy the turn based combat and aren't too stuck on the 
 interaction for the Wii this is a definite buy.
  Long Live Pokemon!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aipom-190
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 1, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Battle Revolution. what to say, this game is good but I would not recommend buying. 1. 
 If you do not have a D/P this game is almost useless. 2. Rental passes, if you don't have D/P all 
 you can use are rental passes with some of the worst movesets I've seen. 3. And overall I would 
 give PBR a 7.6. Gameplay is good no bugs in the game so far that see, Graphics probably the best 
 on the Wii up to date, Sound pretty good the announcer really keeps you going and the music is 
 good, Value; not worth $50, Tilt I don't really know what to say unless you got D/P. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChazPrime
Rating: 2.7
Date: Jul 1, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I expected a lot of options from this game, but was surprised that it didn't have any of the extra 
 modes of the previous Pokemon Battle games. Skip it and get the N64 Pokemon game. The online mode 
 isn't as great as I'd hoped... the real meat is in the DS games. I won't be surprised to see this 
 one in the bargain bin before too long.
  
  Nice graphics and decent sound, but that's not enough to carry this game. Trying to connect to 
 Nintendo's Wifi service works great sometimes, but more often than not is slow to connect or disconnects 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 4, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  If you have ever played any of the Pokemon Stadium games in the past, then this game will seem 
 like nothing new, accept for there are some more modes of play, and you can purchase items for 
 your avatar to wear with the points you win from battles. It's good to see Nintendo finally living 
 up to their word of having Wii-DS connectivity, and Wii online games. Battling a friend while using 
 your DS as a controller is really fun.
  Battle Revolution is a good game for any pokefan, but since the sole focus is on battles, it will 
 tend to get repititve rather quickly. Also I would not recommend getting this game if you dont 
 have one of the DS pokemon games, while it is still playable, you will miss out on half of the 
 available features, and half of the fun.
  
  Gameplay 8- If you know the strategies behind pokemon battling then you will find this game to 
 be rather easy.
  Graphics 8- Good to see a graphics update for the monsters, but some of them still look like the 
 N64 models, and some of the pokemon look like plastic toy figures. The statiums are all nicely 
 done and richly detailed.
  Sound 7- Pokemon screeches, attack noises, music that you forget is playing in the background after 
 a while, and the announcer's voice; thats it.
  Value 7- Tends to get repititive after an hour or two, but it is really fun to battle your friends 
 on the big screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emblazing_Sand5
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jun 30, 2007 12:08 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Battle Revolution is for those pokemon fans and D/P owners. First off if you don't have 
 D/P DONT GET IT, you are allowed to import the pokemon from D/P to PBR but if you dont have it 
 you are forced to use rental passes throughout the whole game. Trust me the rental passes really 
 suck crap, the pokemon arent good, never level up, evs are horrible, moveset sucks. Pokemon Battle 
 Revolution is more of an extension to Diamond and Pearl rather than a game. The only good part 
 about it is the wifi, you can now battle random people! The graphics are superb very impressive 
 of what they done but the gameplay lacks. When you bring in your pokemon you will beat all the 
 colosseums in 2 days thats it. But, as you beat all the colosseums new challenges will be set up 
 making it harder. Customizing your trainer is very fun and awsome, theres hundreds and thousands 
 of combinations you can do, be creative! To sum it all up i would say Dont get PBR if you dont 
 like battling and/or you dont have diamond and pearl. Overall its a nice game to have for wifi 
 battles but not for the single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saaugelinks
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 30, 2007 12:04 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Battle Revolution succeeds in providing a fun online multi-player experience, but fails 
 with its shallow single player mode. It's more of an accessory to Diamond and Pearl than an actual 
 game. It's cool to see your hard trained monsters in full 3D on the Wii and fight it out with your 
 friends using the DS as has a controller. Other than that and online play, the Colosseum mode is 
 pretty stale. You are able to customize trainers with cloths you buy with points you win from the 
 single player mode. Unfortunately, there are only six character models that you cannot edit much 
 other than their cloths. Online is a lot of fun but it would have been a lot better with leader 
 boards or just some sort of record system that would compel people to compete.
  
  Hopefully in the next installment we can look forward to a better single player mode, more options 
 such as double battles with four players online and better online support. In the mean time, I 
 still found this to be an enjoyable accessory to Diamond and Pearl and recommend it to any fan 
 of the franchise.
  Just don't expect anything revolutionary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faariss
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jun 29, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun as long as you have pokemon diamond or pearl or both and have Wi-fi, other wise 
 its the most boring game I've ever played, so many limitations. There is not even a story mode 
 in which to go catch pokemon of your own, you have to use pointless rental passes. Also throughout 
 the whole game you don't even get to level up pokwemon or evolve them unless they've been transfered 
 via Wi-Fi using Nintendo DS with the Pokemon Pearl or Diamond game. I can honestly say this game 
 is has been the worst in the line of Pokemon games, I mean like the very first Pokemon Blue and 
 Red were better than this boring game, in my opinion its nothing more than an add-on. Or a desperate 
 cry for help from the game producers of Nintendo not being able to find a good way to make a solid 
 Pokemon game for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warpath1976
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 29, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  its a great game the best of the series theres nothing not to like about this game unless you absolutly 
 hate pokemon and want to burn them on stake then you may not like it (but if you tried it you might 
 love it) or you just dont like having fun then you may not like it but as for me I love it and 
 anyone thats ever like pokemon or even some thats never tried pokemon may love it you can copy 
 pokemon from your DS to battle revolution and thats a big plus and hacked pokemon is banned also 
 a plus and the fact you can buy more gear to cutomise your trainer and gain more battle passes 
 to add more teams all are pluses 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omega_DBZ
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 29, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  well this game is not the greatest but they could do it better. this game dont hav what made pokemon 
 fun, you cant rent the team that u want anymore, no minigames, the only thing that i did like and 
 its the best thing in the game its the WI-FI battles. the DS battle was iight no really good because 
 you have to turn off ur DS everytime u want to change team. the coliseum is not the best storyline, 
 and they use wack pokemon, like i said they could do it better.
  
  Graphics was pretty good but there's some pokemonm that u feel like u playing Gamecube and even 
 N64, fire, ice, psychics, poison and water hav good grapics the way they made it was bangin. the 
 game its not worth $50 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kerensky287
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 29, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  First things first: if you don't have Diamond or Pearl for DS, don't even THINK about getting this 
 game. While the Pokemon Stadium games gave you the option to use rental pokemon, this game only 
 issues you a rental pass of 6 mediocre characters. Also, if you haven't beaten D/P (or at least 
 reached level 50) , do that first. Level 50 is the average level in this game, and you will have 
 a very hard time if your characters can't beat someone at this point.
  
  Now to business.
  
  Finally, the first online Wii game is here! The floodgates are open for 
 all of our favourite games to be playable against people around the world! And what better series 
 to do this than Pokemon, which spawned an almost worldwide craze for a few years? Well... they 
 could've done it a bit better.
  
  First of all, the menu is annoying to get around. The guide person who explains everything at the 
 start of the game WILL explain everything, whether you want her to or not. It literally gives you 
 an option to listen or not listen, and if you choose not to, she will STILL tell you. Make sure 
 you save afterward, as well, because if you don't, she will do it again. Second of all, where are 
 the rental pokemon?! In Pokemon Stadium 1 and 2, they had a list of almost every character (all 
 except for the Legendary ones) that you could borrow at any time. Not this time around... as I 
 said before, they just give you 6 guys and tell you to have at 'er. To make this worse, one of 
 the coliseum ranks has the condition that you HAVE to use this pass. It feels like a demo in this 
 aspect of the game... buy the full version to get access to all the other guys. The problem? You 
 just BOUGHT the full version!
  
  Thirdly, the pass system itself. I understand the usefulness of having a pre-set team that you 
 can choose from, but... why force you to? In Stadium, you could register your team for quick use, 
 and the process was very quick. In this one, you HAVE to register a team (or it won't let you use 
 them) , you have to select them by navigating through all of the PC boxes (ie. choose Box 1, choose 
 your character, review your character, select the character) which is a very tedious process, and 
 you can only have 3 passes to choose from at a given time. Once again, a seemingly intentional 
 limitation - they force you to do this by design.
  
  Finally, the 2-player battles. They give you the helpful option of using 1 remote and passing it 
 off to the other person, or using 2 to minimize hassle. With the 1-remote setup, you take turns 
 choosing your characters at the start, then you take turns attacking. In this case, you can understand 
 why they do this; you only have one controller. The confusing thing is that they STILL do it when 
 you have 2 controllers... you just don't have to pass it over. You literally have to wait for player 
 1 to choose the characters before player 2 can have any controller input. Why? I don't know.
  
  The only good thing about the game is the battles. The graphics are outstanding (for the Wii, 
 at least) , the sound is great, and there are more animations. Still... you'd think that there would 
 be a little more to a 50 dollar game, huh? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuicuneX
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 29, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Okay, so there's no story whatsoever, except for the fact that you are visiting a place 
 called Poketopia, where there are lots of battle challenges and such. In fact, that's all there 
 is. There's no wandering around, capturing Pokemon or solving puzzles while making your way through 
 various dungeons. It's the same battle style as the other pokemon games, that hasn't changed at 
 all. The Wi-Fi is a little sketchy, because the only parameters you really have is whether you 
 want a Single or Double battle, and then your level limits. Then someone is chosen at random, no 
 matter what their Pokemon are, and no matter whether they're a beginner or an expert. The only 
 other part of gameplay that there is besides battling, is customizing your character, your trainer 
 card and your catchphrases. Woop-de-doo...
  
  Graphics: This is definetly one of the games' strong points. The graphics are amazing! The Pokemon 
 themselves look great, but the atack sequences are even cooler to watch! This game probably has 
 the best graphics on the Wii I've seen so far.
  
  Sound: Well, the music isn't that great. The only other sound you really have is the sound effects 
 from the attacks, the Pokemons' cries, and the crowds' cheering. I've never really heard the Pokemon, 
 because the crowd is so freaking loud. Then there's the announcer... Ugh.
  
  Value: Well, I can't say much here, because I haven't finished the game yet, but I'm guessing it 
 wouldn't be too great, other than the fact that you can battle people on Wi-Fi.
  
  Overall, I think Pokemon Battle Revolution is less of a game, and more of an accsessory to get 
 more out of your Diamond and Pearl games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eattacosAMR
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jun 29, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  the single player is really really bad is doesnt have a story all you do is just get straight to 
 battling and that can get really boring really quick. You can transfer pokemon if you have pokemon 
 diamond and pearl to pokemon battle revolution so you can see them is action on the big screen 
 but if you dont have these versions of pokemon your suck with weak rental pokemon that wont do 
 much good if you wanna play wifi on this game also the wifi doesnt really offer that much to the 
 game there are no leaderboards no tournments no stats so basically you could defeat legendary pokemon 
 without anyone knowing except you and the one who battled you basically save your cash on better 
 games coming out or just buy somemore VC games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rascal777
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 28, 2007 11:17 pm PT
Review:  In all honesty, there isn't much to say about PBR. Lets start with graphics. The graphics are beautiful. 
 The character models look great, as do the pokemon models. The custom character is nice. It allows 
 you to create a character with cloths, items, facial features, etc... And the music/sound affects 
 are ok. The pokemon's shrieks still sound like the GBA ones, though. As for music, most pokemon 
 games always did have at least a catchy song or two. Now onto the game. The game is exactly like 
 the first pokemon stadium, minus the mini games, and lots more coliseums. And thats it. You choose 
 your character, and your off. You don't even get to keep any pokes. If you DON'T transfer from 
 diamond/pearl, you must rent pokes from the respective coliseums EVERY SINGLE TIME. So, right away, 
 if you don't have diamond/pearl, do not get this. If you do, its the same thing. battle guys, battle 
 the leader, get points/cards, get stuff with points, repeat, just with new rules/pokes/difficulty. 
 Wi-fi is very fun, with no lag that I have seen. This is the selling point of the game. You can 
 get rare pokes in the game like magmortar and electivire, which you can get in D/P, so whats the 
 point? But you can also get the elusive Surfing Pikachu, which fans will die over.
  
  In the end, this poke package seems nothing more than a expansion pack to its DS counterpart.
 
  The graphics are great, and wi-fi is fun, albeit limited, but I only recommend this to the die-hard 
 poke fans, and the most desperate of online playing wii owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 28, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Well the game I been looking forward to and alot of others to see there amazing pokemon in 3D fighting 
 action! However thats about all your going to get in this poor excuse for a game!
  
  First off this game is at full price $60 in Canada, $50 in the states so your normal price for 
 a wii game, when it conclusion this game is nothing more then a cheap add on to the pokemon games 
 for the DS. This game allows you to battle with pokemon in different tournments, each with there 
 own special trait. The game allows you to transfer over pokemon from your DS games, which is great, 
 but what if you don't got a DS or pokemon? Well your stuck with the rental pokemon! Pokemon that 
 are weak in most elements that there not even worth using in most cases. The rental are stuck in 
 groups of six so you can't even pick a decent team! So your stuck with rental pokemon big deal? 
 Well ok its not like I gain levels in this game anyway? Wait theres no storymode at all either? 
 Thats right now story at least to go into the tournment just straight battling, one after another. 
 WHICH GETS BORING FAST! Pokemon is good for 1 reason, it mixes alot of elements all into one game 
 making it fun for everyone. I am a fan of battling but not all the time and so this game lost its 
 touch within the first day or so. The games got nice graphics and decent controls, but in all other 
 aspects it blows and its hard to even recommend this game. The game offers wi-fi ability, which 
 is awesome since its the first wii game to get this function! Bad news theres no restrictions at 
 all and so your stuck with immature 9 year olds using a whole team of ubers! Not that they know 
 how to use them... The game allows DS to DS action but only if your in the area no wi-fi to the 
 wii, no wii to ds action, no nothing. This is horrible. Your saying instead of wi-fi at home and 
 battle my friend over the internet he has to come all the way over here just to play it? Pathetic 
 is all I got to say! This game is a poor excuse for a game and I only would get it if you own a 
 DS and pokemon for the 3D. However if your low in cash and just want a wii game then get the Resident 
 Evil 4 Wii Edition that just came out or Super Paper Mario. This game is garbage and is by far 
 the worst pokemon game I own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahahaG
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  It's honestly not very good. The stadiums are fun to beat the 1st time through but get very repetitive 
 , even from the start. the online play is sloppy with no rank or anything. The graphics are good 
 for a wii game, that i can say, and some of the pokemon are cool. However that is all that's good 
 about it. If you don't like pokemon, don't get it. If you do, well maybe get it, but renting might 
 be smarter. If you have diamond or pearl on ds, it might b a better experience. If you don't , 
 then do NOT waste your time on this. Go play mario strikers, cuz at least you have an online that 
 is put together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havraha
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 4, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  To get right down to it, unless you've bought Pokemon Diamond or Pearl, there's really no reason 
 you should be buying Pokemon Battle Revolution. You CAN, and you still CAN play it ... but doing 
 so is a tedious process to do which may not end up being very fun at all. Hell, the whole game 
 is a tedious process to do, with or without a DS game pak.
  
  Without a Pokemon DS game, you'll be forced to use rental pokemon These pokemon come on pre-made 
 Battle Passes, which have a pre-designed character on them. More dissappointingly, the pokemon 
 on said rental passes cannot be leveled up, which takes a lot away from the game. The more collosseums 
 you clear in the story mode, the more rental passes you have to pick from, but its a pretty slow 
 and boring way to play the game, since nothing is really personal about it at all.
  
  As you progress and make money, new gear becomes available in the shop menu that you can purchase 
 to deck out your trainer with if you want to ... but the selection is extremely ... extremely limited, 
 with only a few items being available for each model of character. Even hair color and clothing 
 styles/colors are predetermined to the selected objects and come in very little variety, which 
 basically means you can forget about making your avatar really look like you, or anyone else for 
 that matter. Even after you've unlocked more and more things, it quickly becomes apparent that 
 the versatility simply isn't there.
  
  Where Pokemon Battle Revolution shines is its new features. It's the first Wii game in the states 
 to be compatible with Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection (Europe received Mario Football earlier) , it's 
 the first game to allow interconnectivity to the DS (you can transfer your entire pokemon collection 
 to the Wii game) , and its the first Wii game that allows you to use your DS as a controller. Interestingly, 
 this option isn't advertised on the back of the case ... and more dissappointingly, it can't be 
 used any time during gameplay -- you can only control the game with a DS in certain modes, specifically 
 versus a friend, which means you'll be playing more the single campaign with the Wii Remote which 
 .... simply feels weird in my opinion, as the pointer isn't very responsive.
  
  Another short gripe about the game is the lack of an auto-save feature. Every time you're done 
 playing, you need to remember to back out to the main menu and go to some obscure option area to 
 save your progress. This is ... needlessly to say, not only ancient compared to the modern-day 
 autosave functionality of most games .... but the simple fact that you can't even pause the game 
 and save on the fly ... now THAT is weird. The fact that you have to be conciously aware of your 
 need to hunt out a save option in the main menu really left me perplexed and questioning the games 
 design.
  
  Graphically the game looks really impressive. Each collosseum has its own scenery ... which of 
 course is just eye candy, and each and every pokemon in existance has models and move animations 
 for both their normal and shiney forms, which shows a massive attention to detail -- indeed, this 
 is probably why the rest of the game feels so shallow: most of the work was put into the pokemon 
 models. The game showcases an impressive lighting effects on the models which simply didn't exist 
 in its Gamecube predecessor, and even MORE impressive effects of attack animations -- the game 
 shines here the most, as even the most basic attacks can leave you in awe of their amazing spectacle. 
 It's also worth noting that this is the first time in the series that pokemon have been able to 
 be shown making physical contact with another ... but in reality this really isn't all that impressive, 
 because we expected this sort of a thing a generation ago. That being said the game lags a bit 
 when a massive attack is launch or when, say ... four large pokemon are released at once into the 
 ring. Even the camera in the opening introduction scenes of the trainers seems to glitch and shiver 
 from time to time, making you wonder exactly what technical limitation is causing this ... or if 
 the designers just never ironed it out.
  
  The sound is all right. It's impressive that they got the voice actor of the announcer for the 
 Pokemon cartoons to work on the game ... and fans of the genre as a whole will definitely appreciate 
 it, but the small detail will largely go unnoticed by most players. The roars given off my each 
 pokemon are a lot less easy to hear than they are in the Pokemon DS games, and though some of the 
 music is indeed good for battling ... other music feels more lacking .... in theme, AND in battle-ready 
 quality.
  
  The game is shallow in its adventure. ... basically it has no adventure. It has seemingly ENDLESS 
 collections of battles you have to work through ... some of them being normal knockout battles, 
 while others have more bizare modes to them, like rental pokemon only, a Fortune mode where all 
 the pokemon in the trainers parties are put on a kind of spinning wheel to be randomly selected 
 by each trainer (it can be timed if your patient) , and finally a selection mode ... where the pokemon 
 you and your opponent use are randomly generated, and you have to have the knowledge and experience 
 of a pokemon trainer to know which pokemon and which moves should give you the best chance of victory. 
 It definitely shakes things up, but with powerful pokemon of your own, you'll be able to beat the 
 main game in under 7 hours. There's new, harder challenges added later .... but for the time being, 
 revel in your conquest, and collect the mystery gift pokemon the game will allow you to download 
 to your DS -- a Pikachu with Volt Tackle, Surf, and an item that specifically boosts his electrical 
 power.
  
  As a single solitary game, Pokemon Battle Revolution simply doesn't deliver ... really at all. 
 And even as an extention of your Pokemon DS games, it may not be worth the 50 dollar price tag 
 .... but when coupled with your DS, it may extend your experience and give you a little more enjoyment 
 out of the already massively long masterpeice which was Pokemon Diamond and Pearl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolracSelbor
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jun 28, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: It gets boring fast. Random battle is cool the first time around but then they begin 
 to get reptitive because most people use the same pokemon. Furthermore, there are no leader boards 
 for random wi-fi, lvl 50 is cap for random wi-fi, and you cant do 6v6 battles on random wi-fi. 
 The one player mode is very easy. There are no mini-game and no battle clauses. Basically PBR is 
 nothing like stadium 2 except for the battling aspect. The wi-fi acts up... a lot. I think I got 
 5 different error codes last night, but once your in if you dont disconnect youll be fine. Overall, 
 its fun for a while. I did enjoy battling legendaries on random wi-fi because I had never really 
 done that on the DS. But it started getting boring; too many FEAR's, garchomps, palkia/dalgia's. 
 It leaves you wanting more. The game has little depth.
  
  Graphics: The graphics look really smooth, which does not always mean good. The pokemon are so 
 smooth some of them look like plastic. It would have been nice to see Ninetails with fur like the 
 put on Fox in Dinosaur Planet for gamecube. The attacks are really nice, but attacks do not damage 
 the arena. Sound: The music for the arenas sound pretty good, but the crys of the pokemon are 
 done very poorly. Nothing like they were in Stadium 2, they sound like your listening to your DS. 
 Value: I am a huge Pokemon fan, yet I dont think this game is worth $40.00 or $50.00. It leaves 
 you wanting more. You can play however 6v6 with FC, but I already do that with the DS and I really 
 dont care too much about 3D graphics to warrant $40.00. Some people surprisingly LOVE the game; 
 but then again, everyone loves a game when they first get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mustang360ZX
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  The only good thing i could say about this game is that the graphics are pretty good but other 
 than that this game should be on the budget rack already because it is no way worth $50. The game-play 
 is repetitive and is exactly the same as Pokemon Stadium. The announcer is annoying and only has 
 like 15 lines that he says over an over again. The online play is horrible. Always dropping connections 
 and it doesn't even keep a win-lost record. Also all Pokemon most be level 50 so the Pokemon you 
 train in the DS and play with online doesn't matter because they are all the same level. You just 
 play Random people and get their friend pass wow how cool. If your lucky you can actually have 
 some friends who have the game and play tournaments online with friend codes but thats probably 
 the only good thing about online. The single player is like any other Pokemon Stadium game you 
 beat some gyms and become Poketopia master. You can customize your Pokemon trainer but thats not 
 even fun. Bottom line this game is just rent or wait till it cost 17.99 at GameStop used. Wait 
 till Mario Strikers to have a great online experience with the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videogamr49
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 28, 2007 10:04 pm PT
Review:  GOOD: -Great Graphics -Nintendo WiFi Connect compatible -Nintendo DS Wireless compatible -Can connect 
 with Pokemon Diamond and Pearl
  
  BAD: -No Single Player adventure. -Rental Pokemon make the game lose its meaning -Announcer voice 
 (can be turned off) - A new coat of paint on an old building -Not worth $50; $30 at most.
  
  In this game, you adventure off to an island theme park known as Poketopia where you will battle 
 off against other trainers and their Pokemon. The gameplay is very similar to that of Pokemon Stadium 
 as well as the other games in the series. The only difference in this game, is that you get new 
 Pokemon, Nintendo WiFi Connect compatibility, and the connectivity with the DS (with Pokemon Diamond 
 or Pearl) . Everything else in the game seems to stay the same but with a few minor adjustments.
 
  
  As for graphics, the game looks great. Graphics are at an acceptable level which really show off 
 the environment quite well. Although the graphics are great, they are not really that far off from 
 the Gamecube's graphics and could have really been given more of a graphic boost to show off the 
 Wii's potential.
  
  The sound is okay and keeps a match filled with excitement while it plays during a battle. The 
 only concern about sound is with the announcer's voice which can get very annoying at times during 
 a battle. It's highly recommended that you turn off the announcer's voice if it gets too annoying.
 
  
  The Nintendo WiFi Connect compatibility is the highlight of this game as it is the first game for 
 the system to have the ability to play against other people online. In this mode, you can play 
 in two different ways, one is against someone at random or against a friend (of whom you have their 
 battle pass) . Matches are fun and keep you always playing against other player. Online matches 
 are fun online but other games will soon include WiFi and if you are not into Pokemon, I would 
 not recommend getting the game for online.
  
  The connectivity between the DS and Wii is also another highlight of the game as it is the first 
 in the series (and for the system) to have connectivity with the DS. The main hype to buy this 
 game is if you have strong Pokemon in either Diamond or Pearl, you will have fun with this game. 
 You can also use the DS to battle, but only if you have 2 or more players who have the Pokemon 
 DS games and a Wii.
  
  A feature that is missing is the single player adventure mode. This aspect missing seems to deliver 
 a hard blow to the rating of this game from my POV. Many people hoping to see an adventure in this 
 game are going to be very disappointed. The only aspect you are going to get out of this game is 
 battle, battle, and battle.
  
  OVERALL: In basic, the game is fun if you have a DS and Pokemon Diamond or Pearl to accompany it. 
 The stronger the pokemon, the better. If you don't, the game will still be playable but the fun-factor 
 will dramatically drop. Online is fun and definitely gives a boost for the game. Overall, I give 
 this game a 7.2/10 saying that it is a good game, but is not recommended for those without Diamond 
 and Pearl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naruto-10001
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 28, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  sure the online battling is pretty cool but thats about it and it gets very boring after a couple 
 of battles . if it was a another stadium game it would have the cool minigames like the ones on 
 the n64 . there should be more than just battling all the time. it definetly should not be worth 
 $50 maybe $40 vut still theres just like nothing to do . it could have added a story mode or something 
 to it . they could have put alot more into the game. fd df fd fd fd afd dsaf sda dgs gdas gds g 
 gea ga g ga g g a a a a a d d f f f r r rr r g g g g g g df g gf fd c r rt t y j gd ffs ae ty t 
 jd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sup3rp3t3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  Pokemon fans have been waiting desperately after the release of Pokemon Diamond and Pearl to bring 
 there Pokemon to the real battling arena in 3D. Though one thing is not in this game from XD Gale 
 Of Darkness and Colosseum, that is free roam. You don't move your character around in cities but 
 you transport to Colosseum's for ultimate battles. You can customize your trainers look and name. 
 For example the trainers gear and Pokemon. The best thing for Pokemon Diamond or Pearl owners is 
 copying there Pokemon to the game and battling with them in regular Colosseums or Wifi battles. 
 This is the first Wifi game on the Wii and it gives you the ability to battle a friend or anybody 
 around the world. Once buying this game, a Pokemon fan will never stop playing cause there is always 
 intense action and battles that always tend to heat up. This is a Pokemon game Pokemon fans have 
 been waiting for. This is Pokemon Battle Revolution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursednavi
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 28, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  Pokemon has always been great and this game was a great addition to the series. It had ds connection, wifi, 
 and a pretty good single player. Th e ds connection works smooth and is great. The wi fi is plenty 
 of fun even though it could have used a little more. The single player is fun but its gets boring 
 after a while casue theres not much change because the only change is a little rule change and 
 differnt pokemon. The graphics as far as wii standards go are amazing. The announcer feels like 
 its a real announcer of a sport game which is good but as you prabably know it is pokemon so an 
 announcer can get annoying but it helps you feel like ure really in the stadium. I think the price 
 is good because. you dont need to buy a connective cord to hook up with the ds its all wirless 
 and free and the wifi is free to so even though its $50 its worth it. Overall the game is great 
 but will prabably mostly please to pokemon fans only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgreig5
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 28, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  This game is a good introduction for the Wii and online gaming. It's simple and to the point. I 
 had bought this game for my kids who are both Pokemaniacs but found myself drawn to the game and 
 began playing and battling with Pokemon from around the world. The game offers some very good graphics 
 for the Pokemon series and assists trainers in learning new tricks and strategies as they learn 
 from other players. The game has good sound during the battles, but I was disappointed that the 
 hostess to Poketopia is voiceless. I think they could have used some of the other voice talent 
 from the TV series to assist in giving the game more life, rather than using scrolling text. I 
 was also hoping for some more of the RPG element to the game considering the amount of data that 
 can be stored on a DVD, I don't feel the game lives up to it's maximum potential. Granted there 
 are good graphics and sound and online play capabilities, but these should not be the only elements 
 in a game.
  
  The game does offer some goodies which can be downloaded to the DS versions of Pokemon from the 
 Shopping area in the game and the Characters can be customized, but only if you download your personal 
 attributes from the DS game. Otherwise you're stuck using a Rental Pass . So realistically, this 
 is an expansion for the DS versions, and as a standalone game, gamers may end up frustrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerForca
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I was excited to see Nintendo finally give the States an online game. I'm a huge 
 Pokemon game fan and I think the series is one of the best RPG series' there is. This one has some 
 issues though. Gameplay- Selecting attacks with the Wiimote is every bit as good as doing it with 
 the DS touch screen. Did you expect anything else? The gameplay modes start off good for single 
 player. Good battling similar to the Stadium games (which were terrific) . It starts off easy (and 
 admittedly boring) , but picks up the pace, but if you have your own pokemon from your DS games, 
 it shouldn't be much at all. Some modes are too hard, like having to switch pokemon randomly with 
 your opponents and having to play with their lame guys. You can also battle with the computer without 
 having to enter a colliseum, but there's obviously not much to that. The single player overall 
 can be good, but is very shallow. Same for all modes and double or single battle. You can do little 
 more than look at the pokemon you put in the game from Diamond/Pearl when you're not battling them. 
 You could do far more (like analyzing heavily) in the N64 games. There is close to nothing you 
 can give your DS games, and even less useful things. This is actually a huge step back from the 
 N64 games in this sense. There's also far less things you can do in PR than in Stadium 2. Well, 
 at least we get to see the Wii and DS have some connectivity. Multiplayer- In a word: Disappointing. 
 Playing with your DS as a wireless controller is neat, but won't keep you hooked for very long. 
 The regular multiplayer battles are nothing, though they never were anything special. Now I can 
 get to online... It is sadly nothing more than garbage. This is exactly what I was looking forward 
 to, but damn! I can't believe how awful it is. The online gaming itself is lagless and much more 
 exciting than the rest.... once you find someone that has picked the same settings as you, that 
 is. That can be a short time, or 5+ minutes from my experience. Yep, that's right; there are no 
 lobbies showing you who has picked what settings, the game just finds someone for you. And the 
 only thing you get out of battling? Nothing. NOT EVEN A RECORD OF WINS AND LOSSES. No tourneys, 
 no leaderboards, no place where you can see stats, no trophies, nothing to win. That totally kills 
 me. Luckily, you can add friends that you have played. Oh wait, no you can't. Another thing this 
 game doesn't have? No voice chat. The DS has it, but the Wii does not. Not that that hurts me, 
 I don't like listening to kids cry over losing. Graphics- Good, but should've been much better. 
 The attacks are far and away the best looking things on this game. Very nice bloom lighting and 
 character animations during attacks are terrific. Attacks like fire blast are gorgeous. The pokemon 
 themselves look good or bad depending on who it is. Some look just like they should, some look 
 awful. A few look like they're made of boxes, while there are no detailed textures on pokemon with 
 feathers and fur. They're all completely solid-looking. For example, Torterra's tree should have 
 leaves on it, not just solid green. Good lighting effects on them are the best thing I have to 
 say. Character models are very jaggy, but nicely lighted, and not bad overall. The environments 
 look a bit rushed and have many jaggies, but look good in diversity. The worst thing about the 
 graphics are the pokemon animations. When they are KOed, they walk back to where they were like 
 nothing happened, and then fall down. That's how it's been since Pokemon Stadium 1. There is NO 
 reason the Wii version can't have improved on that. Sound- Not much to it. The theme songs are 
 rarely pleasant to listen to, and the rest is pretty much garbage. The sound effects are no more 
 than you would expect during the attacks. Another issue is that by now, the pokemon should've given 
 up their lame roars and be able to say their name (isn't that what they do on the show? would be 
 better) . The commentator has few things to say, and you will quickly be thinking STFU when listening 
 to him. Replay Value- Unless you want to keep playing the online, there is no reason to keep playing 
 after you've beaten the single player (IF you beat it) . Or you could play with people at your house, 
 like I've already stated, it's not very good. Better to play another multiplayer game. Money Value- 
 Not worth it until the price comes down to at least $30. Unless you absolutely positively want 
 pokemon or an online game. I suggest you not buy it though, wait for a future pokemon game on Wii 
 that is made whole-heartedly.
  Overall- Like I said before, I'm a huge Pokemon game fan, but this game is an embaressment to the 
 series, and a big step back in some ways from the N64 pokemon. You can find some fun out of it, 
 but it won't last for long. This is mostly just for die-hard pokemon fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaFii1
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 27, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  The only thing that makes it good is the wifi battle. It makes you just wan't to play it for like 
 1 hour and that's it. It has almost nothing added to it. In my point of view the pokemon animations 
 are wack and there is no variety of things to do in the game but a couple of boring battles. I 
 guess that when they made this game they didn't really have any ideas of what to do with the game. 
 I mean come on seriously they have to have kept at least the idea of mini games or put a little 
 story in it. It really don't see this game as a Revolution , I just see it as an addition to the 
 Pokemon series not a change. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lastloth
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  I don't only the ds version of pokemon. When I play pokemon battle revolution without the ds version 
 I am stuck with very crappy pokemon. Playing offline battles are fine but thats now why people 
 want this game, its for online play. While playing online though it is pretty much impossible to 
 go up against a player with the ds version and their own pokemon. They pull out a mewtwo and your 
 stuck with a charmander at level 50. They can always defeat you with one hit. So just keep in mind 
 if you have a ds buy pokemon dymond or pearl if you wanna stand a chance. Other than that The graphics 
 are very good, but the gameplay is very slow paced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arb92
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 31, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  The good parts of this game is the new graphics, they are really good and colorful, with some shiny 
 texture to the pokemon and the move visuals. The move visuals are spectacular, with also, good 
 graphics and they look more realistic. 10 new areas to battle is really cool, which makes it a 
 game where you can choose from different things. Customize your trainer is really good, you can 
 customize hats, clothes, shoes, even you backpack that you have you can customize, and many more. 
 Customizing your text for what you say when you start a battle, switch out pokemon, bring pokemon 
 in, lose/win in a battle, is a very good add-in to the game. you can bring your pokemon from diamond 
 and pearl without wifi is cool. Whenever you colosseum battle, there are different ways to beat 
 people which may take more strategy. Whenever you, or a opponent takes damage, the new health bar 
 to show how damage you take is really cool. The bad parts of this game is there is some of the 
 elements from the pokemon stadium series are gone which made those games really good. Also, this 
 game can be very boring and repetitive. Overall, this game is ok, but i dont really recommend it 
 to anybody out there, its just an add-on to pearl/diamond 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neo9898_98
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 9, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  When Diamond and Pearl was being announced... most of assumed there would be some sort of random 
 wifi battle system. This was not included and many were dissapointed. Battle Revolution comes along 
 and this is completely fixed. Now we have random wifi battles... and an addicting single player 
 mode. Now this is what I would call Pok&eacute; mon Stadium 3. This game's visuals are astounding... 
 most of the models are re-used from years and years ago, but a few little additions such as shading 
 and full lighting/reflections/shadows were added. The music is FANTASTIC... absolutely beautiful. 
 The announcer is dull sometimes, and makes me wish they never got rid of the original announcer 
 from the Stadium games. One thing that I don't like about this game is that the colosseums are 
 far to easy. There are no species restrictions for any of them, so you can literally take a Mewtwo 
 and a Deoxys and destroy the game in a matter of hours. Anyways, the Wifi is where this game shines... 
 and shines it does. However, this game is definately not worth $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Latioszero
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 27, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  Now, don't get me wrong, this game is awesome. I'd recommend it to any pokemon fan, but with no 
 storyline or minigames, or anything other than battle, battle, battle, it's not worth the full 
 $50.
  
  In this game you start off with a Rental Pass, which is a pass with 6 rental pokemon on it. All 
 level 50, 1st or 2nd evolution. You can, however, create Custom Passes, which are passes that allow 
 you to choose pokemon from your Diamond or Pearl cartridge (Hereon known as D/P) . You can import 
 ALL of your pokemon from D/P at once, and it doesnt take very long, which is really nice, but you 
 can't change hold items or anything on Battle Revolution. What you transfer is what you get. But, 
 you can transfer as many times as you want. You can create as many battle passes as you have Battle 
 Pass backgrounds, which you obtain by completing colosseum challenges.
  
  The colosseum challenges are fun, they have a bunch of random types of battles, which range from 
 your standard Knockout battles (which are battles that you choose your pokemon from your team and 
 battle until the opponent runs out of pokemon) to Fortune Battles (All 12 pokemon, yours and your 
 opponents are put on a dartboard that spins, and you throw a dart to choose your pokemon, your 
 opponent does the same.
  
  The DS Battle feature is pretty sweet, you get to use your DS as a command input, up to 4 people 
 can battle at a time.
  
  My favorite part of the game: Customizable Trainers. I've been waiting for this for a LOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOONG 
 time. You can customize your trainer's look, anything from the pants and shirt they wear to the 
 color of their eyes. I'm kind of disappointed that you cant take the hats off though, I never liked 
 the hats. My least favorite part of the game: No storyline. All that happens is you complete colosseum 
 challenges in order, earn cupon points (which are used to buy Mystery gifts for D/P or custom trainer 
 gear for your trainer) , and move on to the next challenge. If you have a bunch of really powerful 
 pokemon, you should be fine and blow through this game (with exception to special colosseums where 
 you either dont use your pokemon or choose from yours and your opponents) .
  
  In all honesty, it's just an extention of D/P, but it's still a really nice extention.
  
  Again, 
 I'd get this game. It's great. But just wait for the price to drop a little. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savetherocks
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 27, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  Since before Pokemon Diamond and Pearl came out, people have been anticipating Pokemon Battle Revolution 
 to play with it. Now, you can. With Wireless DS communication and Nintendo Wi-fi connection, this 
 game really keeps the Pokemon series going. With amazing graphics and stellar sound, the game takes 
 it to the top. The game starts out on a plane, heading on its course to Poketopia. You begin by 
 creating your profile. After it is created, you land in Poketopia and proceed to the reception 
 desk. Here, you may choose from the menu to save, create a Battle Pass, go to the shop, and many 
 more options. To guide you through the menu is a blond woman named Anna. To participate in any 
 Collosseum Battles, you must first create a Battle Pass. First yout, you will be able to choose 
 between six characters with three skin colors, which are three girls and three boys. You can use 
 either rental Pokemon, as featured in Pokemon Stadium 1 and 2, or bring Pokemon from either Pokemon 
 Diamond or Pokemon Pearl. After you creat your Battle Pass, you may enter a Collosseum. After winning 
 through a collosseum, you receive Poke Coupons, the currency in the game. With them, you may buy 
 Accessories for your character or items for Pokemon DIamond or Pearl. Now, let's move on the the 
 review:
  
  Gameplay: 9
  The Gameplay in this game is simply terrific. It would have easily earned a 10 if not for one fatal 
 factor: it includes little or no motion-sensing controls.
  
  Graphics: 10
  The Graphics in this game or suberb, with vivid colors and clean-looking three dimentional figures.
 
  
  Sound: 10 The sound in this game is extremely clear and includes some nice tunes.
  
  Value: 10
  As the first Wii game to include Nintendo Wi-fi COnnection and DS Wireless Communications, 
 this game will be talked about for years.
  
  Tilt: 10
  As a reviewer, talking about this game is just as fun as playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodjoe921
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  This is one of those pokemon games that reminds me of the old Pokemon Stadium games!
  Except this version has updated Pokemon, better Graphics, and Wi-Fi!
  Not to mention that you 
 can buy clothes for your trainer by earning coupons you get from beating a coliseum!
  And you can import your Pokemon from Diamond or Pearl onto the Nintendo Wii and battle with them!
 
  *
  Graphics- The graphics in this game are so good the game almost looks real!! It adds a little touch 
 to the game the game because better graphics = realistic battles!
  *
  And that's basically the only thing that's good about this game! This game can get boring really 
 quick, and would have been better if it had mini games or something other than just battling! I 
 would definatly recommend NOT to get this game! If you are going to get a copy of it make sure 
 you have a copy Diamond or Pearl and that you have high level pokemon on it before getting this 
 game! Without pokemon from Diamond or Pearl this game is really tough! I would NOT recommend getting 
 this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goku2639
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 27, 2007 3:57 am PT
Review:  Many people say this game is bad because it is Pokemon Stadium all over again... with no minigames, 
 but with the same great battling. I have had this game for about a day and I love it. I'll break 
 down the sections of the game:
  
  Graphics: Amazing.... pure Wii graphics. The fire moves like Flamethrower are incredible to look 
 at. I can't believe the graphic for Pokemon have gotten this far. The models of the trainers are 
 extremely well done as well. Their hair even flows naturally in the wind. Sound: The normal Pokemon 
 Stadium sounds.... the announcer is the announcer from the old Pokemon shows which gives you that 
 feeling that you are in a real battle in the show. The Pokemon enter the battle using their grunts 
 and sounds from the gba/ds games, but you won't mind much. The moves ave their own interesting 
 sound effects, like Teeter Dance and Sing. Gameplay: It's Pokemon Stadium. Not much to explain. 
 The point-and-click idea works great though when you are battling. Using the DS as a controller 
 comes as easy as ever... if you have the DS game that is.
  
  Value: Foor $50 dollars..... it's not worth it if you aren't a fan of Pokemon. You MUST have a DS 
 and either Pearl or Diamond to truly enjoy this game, seriously. Many features get locked when you 
 don't have the DS game, like not being able to edit your Trainer card, etc....
  
  Wifi: The wifi is actually pretty good. I've done about 10 battles on wifi so far.... and won each, 
 but I'm not sure if you get something for your wins. You can either battle a random person..... or 
 battle one of your friends. Yes... this game has friend codes. After you battlle someone randomly, 
 after the battle you can choose to battle again and if someone choose No.... you can trade Trainer 
 cards so you can have them and their team in your game's memory to battle later.
  
  A brilliant game... but you will need the DS games in order to really enjoy the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vile_Zombie
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 26, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  I would first like to say that this game looks amazing. Clearly better than any Gamecube incarnations 
 of the game and in fact one of the better looking Wii games thus far. The sound effects are pretty 
 good, all attacks have the appropriate sound effects. Though, the announcer does tend to be something 
 of a kill-joy. However, the options for actual gameplay are limited. True you can battle your Diamond/Pearl 
 counterparts in all three glorious dimensions, and it has a very Stadium-esque feel, but it has 
 no mini-games or any story mode to speak of. You can obtain points to buy hold items and TM's for 
 your Diamond/Pearl game, but the point values required are more outrageous than the Game Corner 
 prizes. And the borrowed game cards give you an underwhelming choice of battle partners. In short, 
 if you're a pokemon fan who loved Stadium and have Diamond/Pearl, you'll like this game, albeit 
 with a little been there, done that feel to it. However, if you love the adventure and story of 
 the hand-held more than anything else, give it a pass. What the game truly boils down to is a $50.00 
 expansion for Diamond/Pearl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avsfan3721
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 26, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Graphic quality is some of the best on the Wii, easily transfer of Pokemon from Diamond of Pearl. 
 Wi-Fi.
  The Cons:
  Upgraded version of Pokemon Stadiums, minus the mini games; if you do not own a DS the game could 
 get old extremely fast. Lose of RPG feel from XD
  
  Ah pokemon, why would anyone have doubted you'd invade our coast yet again to make us all realize 
 how much we gotta catch them all again... so if so, why can't you make a GOOD Pokemon game that 
 isn't on a handheld??
  
  Pokemon Battle Revolution is a beautifully remastered version of the N64 hit Pokemon Stadium, you 
 play as either a boy or girl and with your battle pass, challenge colosseum's filled with battle 
 ready trainers and pokemon, and your goal is to become the best trainer of Poketopia. With the 
 addition of wi-fi and ds controls, the game has become any pokemaniacs dream come true. The character 
 rendering is by far the best on the Wii, with music and sound fxs awesome as well. The newest and 
 most talked about addition is the ability to play with your friends online.
  
  The only problems i have with the game is that to be able to choose your own rental team, you must 
 transfer pokemon to the wii via ds.... you see the problem with this. Some gamers may not have ds's 
 or either diamond or pearl so they are stuck with the rental team of 6 and are unable to change. 
 One other major loss is the rpg factor from colosseum and XD: hunting for shadow pokemon. I feel 
 that if this game would have some RPG elements the game could go a long way further to being a 
 better game than it is.
  
  Pokemon Battle Revolution is still a good game, if you transfer your awesome team from diamond 
 or pearl and like the Stadium feel of old. But you asked for my review and here it be. By the way... Circuit 
 City has it 10 bucks cheaper than anywhere else in Utah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gene14
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Well, Gameplay: 9 - I have not found any flaws when battleing, which is the main core of the game. 
 It works well. As well, you can make your own avatar to play as and you could create custom catch 
 phrases (Screw you, little kiddies) . So you finally can play the man behind the Poke'Man. Online 
 is good too, the only difference of offline and online is the stupidity or absolute genius of human 
 players.
  Graphics: 8 - It's not the best looking game, but still looks pretty good. the effects for the 
 attacks compliment well to gameplay, and spruce it up as well.
  Sound: 10 - No explanation needed really, the sound is just fine, but what adds to the awesome 
 sound is the announcer, he makes the game feel like a sporting event, which is pretty cool.
  Value: 9.5 - The only reason for this is the massive amounts of Poke'Mans that were made in the 
 Poke'Man series and the main awesomenessicity of the game: Online play.
  
  Final: About a nine.... Just get it, you don't like Poke'Man? Me niether, I still got it, because 
 it's pretty fun, customizable and Online Play... finally.... Nintendo, please, pretty please give 
 third party developers the oline code... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmashAndRun
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 26, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Battle Revolution is Pokemon Stadium brought to the Wii with every single Pokemon. You 
 are on an island and you battle at different Colosseum's with different rules. The 3-D graphics 
 and animations are really pretty to look at, but the game gets old kinda fast. Its the same thing 
 all the way through the game. Pick your Pokemon and battle. To battle you need a battle pass. Whether 
 it be a custom or rental pass. The rental is one the game randomly picks for you. Custom is where 
 you can copy all of your Diamond or Pearl Pokemon onto the game and pick six you want to use. You 
 can also customize your player character with many different items of clothing. One thing I really 
 dont like is that there are no mini games in this game like there was with Pokemon Stadium. They 
 added replayability to the game. The only thing that adds replayability to this game is the WiFi. 
 WiFi is the same as Diamond and Pearl except you get to battle at the same time with random people 
 or friends and you see prettier graphics and animations. So. The breakdown of this game is that 
 you really have to be a die-hard pokemon fan to enjoy this game a lot. Me? Im not a die hard fan 
 so I think it was almost worth the $50... but not quite. So if you love pokemon then your gonna 
 love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbox32
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2007 5:06 am PT
Review:  To start out soying this game is completly awesome. The Ds feature is so cool how you can battle 
 ur friend using your ds. With all the new and old pokemon it makes the game even more fun. also 
 the controls are gret on the wii unlike some games. So if your a pokemon fan or not your guarrented 
 to like the wouderful game&gt;
  
  Sound- tight
  Graphics- even tighter
  Gameplay_ great
  Tilt_ even rvrn tighter
  value- this game has tons and tons and tons of value
 
  So By this game its worth 50 dollars and maybe even a little more but its so good and its one 
 of the best wii games to date and one of the best pokemon colesumm games too. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
