-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pool Party
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/poolparty/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Technical tuning allows for nasty trick shots.
 Good selection of pool games.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Technical tuning allows for easy misfires.
 Large, useless images obscure the table.
 Sound is maddening.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 21, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 2.7, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 5.0, 63 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SouthPeak Games
Genre: Billiards
Date: Sep 5, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Twitchy controls and poor presentation eclipse what little fun there is to be had with this middling 
 billiards game. 

  The game of pool is fundamentally simple. Use a stick to hit a ball into other balls to make those 
 balls fall into holes. It is a game played casually and competitively, in bars, basements, and 
 pool halls. Pool Party presents a version of this popular table game that does a reasonable job 
 of capturing the technical elements of pool while failing dismally to present these elements in 
 an appealing way. No matter how much you enjoy 9-ball, snooker, or any of the other variations 
 included herein, you'll find it hard to get past the bland artistic presentation, poorly tuned 
 controls, and obtrusively unpleasant sound.  

  Pool Party offers a fairly straightforward bill of fare. Choose one of 13 different game modes 
 that range from the traditional (9-ball, 8-ball, straight pool) to the exotic (blackjack (score 
 21 pts. to win) , killer (3 misses and you're out) ) to the British (full and short snooker) . While 
 deliberating over which mode to play, prepare for your first of many barbs of annoyance. An in-your-face 
 upbeat jam repeats every 15 seconds, while a robotic woman's voice exhorts you to "select your 
 game mode" every eight seconds. This is representative of the audio philosophy at work throughout 
 the game, though, mercifully, the menus are the only place where you cannot mute the offending 
 noise.  

           Your hatred of table-obstructing images will burn with the fire of... errr, this table. 

  After selecting your game, it's off to the "Environment" selections, where you choose your venue, 
 table, cue, ball set, character, music, and ball speed. Every one of these options is purely aesthetic 
 and has no noticeable effect on the gameplay. This rule extends, disconcertingly, to ball speed 
 as well. You can increase the available options by winning matches, but since there's no improvement 
 from say, a nicer cue, you're essentially just unlocking new skins for the various elements.  

 
  Once you've made your selections you're transported to a table where the balls are racked and 
 ready to go. You aim your cue by tilting the analog stick, or by pointing the remote while holding 
 A. The analog stick makes small angle adjustments difficult, but a slight slip of the remote and 
 you'll have spun around backward before you know it, so it's best to try a cautious combination 
 of the two. You can change the vertical angle of your strike with the D pad and aim the cue at 
 a specific point on the ball by holding the 1 button and pointing. Again, pointing is overly sensitive, 
 so you'll likely find yourself using both hands to steady your aim. You set your power meter by 
 holding B and using the analog stick, or by holding A and B and pushing the remote toward or away 
 from the screen. The problem here is that shooting merely requires you to hold down B and make 
 a slight forward motion with the remote, so it's easy for a small twitch of the wrist to trigger 
 a premature shot. You can imagine the frustration when, after meticulously selecting the angle 
 of a soft put-in shot, you misfire and send the cue ball rocketing around the table like an angry 
 bee in a jar. A few such stings will make you more cautious, but this oversensitivity can make 
 setting up and executing your shot feel like an exercise in tense precision, as if you were attempting 
 a crazy trick shot on ESPN2 instead of playing a leisurely game.  

  This feeling of technical rigor might have been tempered were there adequate camera angles to allow 
 you to eye your shot with some confidence. Unfortunately, of the six angles available, only two 
 will be of any help. To imagine the useless four, you need merely picture yourself standing on 
 one of the four sides of the table. You can look straight ahead, up, or down, but cannot turn your 
 head at all. Instead, you can only strafe parallel to the table edge, back and forth as if on a 
 rail, unable to focus your attention on the cue ball or any relevant sight lines. It won't take 
 long before these views are merely something bothersome to toggle through on your way to the actually 
 useful behind-the-cue and overhead views.  

  Once you've gotten a feel for the controls and have settled into your two functional viewpoints, 
 playing a game can be pretty fun. Ball physics are represented fairly well, though they often feel 
 a little tightly wound and unforgiving. This technical precision is fun when you're putting a lot 
 of English on the ball to attempt some wacky shot, but can be frustrating when you're trying to 
 keep it simple, which will be most of the time. The artificial intelligence will sometimes opt 
 to miss an unfathomable shot rather than attempt an easy one, or will sink a few balls in a row 
 in an incongruous burst of proficiency, but this irregularity averages out to be pretty fair competition. 

           Nothing helps my snooker game quite like a big, honkin' wagon wheel.      

  Alas, it seems that twitchy controls and constraining cameras aren't enough to burden you with, 
 so Pool Party throws in a few more unpleasantries to keep you dissatisfied. Superimposed at all 
 times in the corners of the screen -- and overlapping the table -- are two images that each take up 
 about 10 percent of the screen. One is a large image of your cue ball with angle notations that 
 would only be helpful to Donald Duck in Mathmagic Land; the other is the invariably ugly CG visage 
 of whatever character you have picked for the match. These obstructions are added to by the overhead 
 lighting and other such structures that appear in certain venues to obscure your overhead view. 
 Sound effects range from lame to jarring, and the background music is, with one or two exceptions, 
 completely intolerable. When you inevitably go to turn it off in the menu (which you must awkwardly 
 hold down the 2 button to access) , you may be tempted by the option "SOUND," located between "MUSIC" 
 and "OFF." This is essentially ambient noise which, depending on your venue, may include phones 
 ringing, birds chirping, eerie spook-out atmospheric tones, or a man yelling in a foreign language 
 into a bullhorn. You should really just go with "OFF."  

  While the technical sharpness of Pool Party can make for some entertaining moments, the wealth 
 of indignities presented here makes for a pretty unappealing package. The purest fun to be had 
 might just be in the practice mode, which allows you to place any ball anywhere and set up some 
 pretty satisfying trick shots. If you are intrigued by such feats, then steel yourself against 
 irritation and give this game a rent. All others are advised to seek their pool fix elsewhere. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 4
Date: May 6, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  I played the Wiiplay pool game and it was by far he best and my favorite of all the games on Wiiplay, 
 I was realyl hoping that tehy would come out with a Pool game in it's own so I could have much 
 more fun playing the pool game like in Wiiplay.
  
  When this game otu I was excited and got it on the first day only to be totally dissappointed when 
 I played it. I played for 2 hours the first day that I got it and then put it back in the case 
 and it never came out again. I traded it in for store credit a few weeks later and bought something 
 much better.
  
  The sound on this game is like many Wii games, TERRIBLE! It plays the same music and catch phrases 
 over and over again and they get extremely annoying. The gameplay is nothign like you would hope 
 it to be. But it does have some cool features like switching ball colors and table tops. That makes 
 the game more fun to watch.
  
  Then again this is a pool game, it's not Gears of War with loads of action. You should not expect 
 much fun from playing pool, but if you don't have your own table and love playing pool, this is 
 as close as you will be able to get to the real thing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: striljr
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  I had a few doubts about this game since the Wii play pool was very disapointing and very hard 
 to control and it did not have 8 ball, it had just 9 ball which made that game an absolute disapointment. 
 Wii play got boring so easily and half the games were so boring. They were only fun for the first 
 half hour and then boy what a snooze job they were. Very repetative. But don't worry this game 
 is fun. Because you can get the best version of pool which is known as 8 ball and of course for 
 any of you people who like the others versions of pool this also comes with a huge variety of different 
 types of pool including 9 ball, 10 ball, blackjack and etc.
  I was going to wait to see what the reviews were like for this game before buying it, but of course 
 I could not find any so I just took a chance of buying it and I think I got my moneys worth. I 
 mean 30 bucks is not a bad deal really. For Wii games they're usually about 50 bucks, but I'm glad 
 the Nintendo company and all the others finally cut us buyers a break with high prices for games. 
 If you are a billiards fan. You were disapointed in the pool on Wii Play. Get this game. It doesn't 
 dissapoint. Trust me.
  It's a good fun time. Best of all you only need a remote. You can use the nunchuk, but it's only 
 there for extra reasons, but you really should only use the remote. One player mode is alot of 
 fun. And it's even more fun when you have friends to play with in multeplayer mode. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
