-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Prince of Persia Rival Swords
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/princeofpersia/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Action adventure elements remain top-notch.
 Smooth, intuitive transitions between platforming, fighting, and narrating.
 Immersive sound and great voice work.
 Motion-sensing controls don't ruin the game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No real improvement over Two Thrones.
 Unimpressive graphics.
 Camera controls can be finicky.
 $50 price tag feels about $20 too much.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  6, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 7.1, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 816 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Apr 3, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Rival Swords is much the same game as Two Thrones, which means it's still good, but it's nearly 
 a year and a half late to the show. 

  In the same way that Ubisoft converted Prince of Persia: Warrior Within to Prince of Persia Revelations 
 for the PlayStation Portable, so too has it released an updated version of Two Thrones for the 
 Wii and PSP with Prince of Persia Rival Swords. Rival Swords retains the essence of what made Two 
 Thrones such a great game in 2005. But rereleasing a game at full price a year and a half after 
 the original doesn't come without expectations, and the added motion-sensing controls do little 
 to justify the lack of a graphical update or the omission of meaningful extras.  

          The most that can be said for the motion controls is that they stay out of the way.    

  Rival Swords/Two Thrones is the conclusion of the Sands of Time trilogy, but the homecoming hasn't 
 gone down according to the Prince's plan. Instead of a sedate life spent getting fat and carousing 
 with the Empress of Time, he finds Babylon burning, a foe once defeated returning immortal, and 
 some maniacal madman installing wicked-confusing elevator systems throughout his city. Vexing for 
 sure, made all the worse when his charge is stabbed in the gut and he inadvertently turns himself 
 into a sand demon. Turns out, using magic to mess with space-time has a nasty way of coming full 
 circle to kick you in the teeth, so by rescuing the Empress from her fate in Warrior Within, the 
 Prince effectively negated his actions in the trilogy's first game, The Sands of Time. What this 
 means is that the Vizier was free to enact his plans of world domination, and, after sidestepping 
 a few plot holes, he promptly does. So, after joining forces again with an old ally for the first 
 time, you're off to rectify your actions by bouncing around all nimbly-bimbly and skewering creeps 
 with a blade -- two skills the Prince happens to excel at.  

  By interfering with the Vizier's machinations, the Prince infects himself with enchanted sand. 
 The power of the sands manifests itself in the form of the Dark Prince, a decidedly sketchy alter 
 ego of the Prince that you'll occasionally morph into, complete with razor-sharp chains encircling 
 his forearms and phosphorescent tattoos etched onto his blackened skin. Along with the new bod 
 comes a new consciousness, which takes up residence in the Prince's head in a schizophrenic fashion. 
 As the Dark Prince, your lethality is greatly enhanced, letting you eviscerate your enemies with 
 a twirl of that enchanted razor wire. The drawback to this nearly unlimited power is that your 
 life essence slowly ebbs away, though it can be fully replenished by picking up the sand charges 
 that are liberally spread throughout the game. Having your life deteriorate certainly adds a sense 
 of urgency to your actions and can increase the game to a near-frenetic pace, as you are pushed 
 through puzzles and forced to find and bust up sand demons or jars of sand so as to avoid becoming 
 dust in the wind yourself.  

  The ability to manipulate time plays a prominent role in Rival Swords. As you progress through 
 the game, you'll accrue sand charges by either killing enemies or smashing jars, baskets, or what 
 have you. By and large, these sand charges will be converted by your newly reacquired Dagger of 
 Time (first seen in the now-defunct Sands of Time) into recalls, which are essentially do-overs 
 that let you rewind time to either have another go at hitting a jump or undoing a devastating combo 
 that some goon has just inflicted upon you. Timeliness is a virtue, however, as you'll only be 
 able to rewind time up to a certain point, indicated by a bar nestled in among your other vitals. 
 The dagger eventually acquires other attributes, such as the ability to slow down time and to massacre 
 several enemies at once, which both have their uses. One of the major setbacks to the game is the 
 way that sand charges act as a crutch for the Prince, often trivializing would-be difficult encounters. 
 While this does help you burn through the game, it also goes a long way in making for sloppy gameplay, 
 as it never really encourages you to think before you leap or become anything more than proficient 
 with the Prince's extensive combat capabilities.  

  In much the same vein as Sands of Time and Warrior Within, the Prince's primary concern is running, 
 jumping, swinging, sliding, and scurrying his way from one precarious perch to another. And in 
 a potentially make-or-break decision, Ubisoft mostly sidelined the Wii's motion-sensing controls 
 in favor of the more traditional, and precise, analog controls. So you'll move the Prince around 
 with the Nunchuk's analog stick, jump with the A button, run along walls with the B button, trigger 
 your sand powers with the C button, and so on. As long as you're accustomed to having your hands 
 a foot apart instead of three inches, the Prince's resourceful method of travel will feel as natural 
 as it does in any other recent Prince of Persia game. Camera controls are the only motion-sensing 
 feature that will factor in here. To spin the camera, you roll the remote right or left. The camera 
 is responsive, though it is a bit quirky. For one, the remote needs to be very close to exactly 
 parallel to the ground to register well. The other quirk is that if you roll it farther than 90 
 degrees, the camera will stop rotating. It takes a bit of getting used to, and with a little more 
 leniency, it'd be a mostly ideal way to rotate the camera. If defying Wii innovation brings you 
 joy, you can also use the D pad to control the camera, but with the close proximity of the buttons, 
 it can be awkward trying to hop about and adjust the camera.  

  Where the Wii's controls do play a prominent role is in combat, which is fine because combat does 
 not play a prominent role in Rival Swords. Standing between you and the Vizier is a small army 
 of supersoldiers who are hell-bent on seeing you to an early grave. Cutting them down is simply 
 a matter of slashing downward with the Wii Remote and Nunchuk, where the remote corresponds to 
 your dagger and the Nunchuk to your offhand weapon. New to the Prince's repertoire is the speed 
 kill, which can be activated when you successfully sneak up on an enemy. When the onscreen indicator 
 flashes, you simply swipe with the Nunchuk to initiate the sequence, and then swipe with the remote 
 when your dagger flashes blue to quickly and brutally end the life of a foe. Combat alternates 
 between feeling like you're beating a drum and waving your hands like an idiot pretending to know 
 karate. But, like the camera controls, the action is responsive, and though it'll be more difficult 
 to directly control the Prince's attacks than it was using a traditional gamepad, you'll still 
 have some control over rattling off stylistic combos. Of course, spastically thrashing about also 
 works well.  

  Rival Swords looks, at best, as good as it did on the Xbox nearly a year and a half ago, and certain 
 technical elements actually look worse. Of course, Two Thrones looked excellent for its time, so 
 that's not to say that Rival Swords also doesn't have its moments. The scale of your environments 
 is large, and the Prince's route often leaves him suspended several hundred (if not several thousand) 
 feet in the air. These heights grant a wonderful view of the city and its surroundings, even if 
 those surroundings happen to be ablaze and reduced to rubble. However, the level of detail looks 
 low-res by today's standards, on both character models and the cityscape, and the game has a washed-out, 
 fuzzy look on the whole. In addition to occasional slowdown and frame rate issues, you'll notice 
 a lot more clipping than in Two Thrones; it can be distracting to see the Prince's hair puncturing 
 his cheek or his hands sinking into solid stone. By no means does Rival Swords stretch, or even 
 test, the Wii's graphical limits.  

          What, your palace doesn't have bladed spinning columns of death? Ghet to .     

  Likewise, 
 the sound is mostly carried over from the Two Thrones, and it sounds as good as it did in that 
 game. A dramatic orchestral score complements some uniformly excellent voice acting, and the game's 
 sound effects are top-notch. The Wii version of Rival Swords has exponentially fewer sound anomalies 
 than the PSP version, though the demon in your head will, on occasion, frantically cry out for 
 you to stab somebody in the eye while you're in an empty corridor -- of course, he  is  insane.  
 

  Fundamentally, Prince of Persia Rival Swords is a good game. The question, though, is whether Rival 
 Swords is worth playing over the GameCube version of Two Thrones, which by this time is only $20. 
 There's some added content that mostly equates to a few extra buzz saws lining the walls, so it 
 really comes down to whether the motion controls are worth $30, which they aren't. In fact, the 
 most that can be said for the motion controls is that they stay out of the way. In all other regards, 
 Rival Swords is the same game as Two Thrones, so you'd be much better served just picking up the 
 older version and squandering the $30 you saved on some kind of hardcore Prince of Persia action 
 figure.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (67 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wiifun
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 11:07 am PT
Review:  Rival Swords is an excellent game. it is very underated. However, ot is similar to the two thrones 
 but much better in story and graphics.
  
  Graphics:
  Who says wii cannot sypport good graphics? this is an ecellent examle of SOME of wii's graphic 
 card power. It could be much better, but don't forget, it is a PS2 port, with only a few changes 
 in story, landscapes and graphics.
  480p-WIDESCREEN 16:9
  
  Gameplay:
  Wii has a great gameplay. In this 
 game, Wiimote is your major weapon and Nunchuk your secondary. There are many combos, with only 
 the motion sensing controls.
  
  Lasting appeal:
  This can keep you busy for days. It worths buying, renting and ... you know 
 what i mean.
  
  Overall:
  Great game, impressive graphics, excellent game play, amazing sound. You want more?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sportsmen2008
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 7:42 pm PT
Review:  How can the controls be so horrible? Reading a lot of the reviews many people say the controls 
 are "challenging" to horrible, I will pick horrible. Ok its true I have never played a PoP game, 
 so I did not expect it to be simple but come on! I expect you to be able to do most things, at 
 least well enough to play the game. In this game In the first 15 minutes of the game I was stuck 
 at least 3 times and each time it took me an hour. 
  
  The camera angles also tried to do way too much. Sure if it works it would be impressive but it 
 does not an leaves you always trying to figure out what happened, or seeing some choppy movements. 
 
  
  The story is really good, and does draw you in, if the controls where smooth it would really make 
 this game a pleasure to play. 
  
  The graphics are average at best. Some scenes really do look ok, but others are very dated. The 
 sound track is very good, and works well with the game. 
  
  This is one of the few games I did not finish, and have no interest to go back and frustrate myself 
 with such horrible controls. Rent it first and if you have no problems with the controls (Good 
 for you) then you should like it. Red Steel's controls are like driving a Ferrari, this games controls 
 are like driving a Kia. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlasterDRP
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 2:05 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay ideas are good. The Prince can run across walls, traverse ledges and swing between 
 rods. He can use a number of different secondary weapons and sneak up behind enemies for a quick 
 and stealthy kill sequence. The problem is that in trying to do so the Prince also looks like he's 
 drunk. Frequently the controller will omit moves, or do the complete opposite of what you're telling 
 it to do, and sometimes even do things you didn't tell it to do at all. It makes many traveling 
 puzzles more difficult than they really are. All of this while the Wii remote still has four bars 
 of charge and no possible interference from overdone home lighting.
  
  When pushing A at critical moments to jump from a ledge, the Prince will instead decide that hanging 
 from said ledge is a better idea. When trying to run across a wall to reach a platform on the other 
 side of a ravine, the Prince will instead practice running straight up the wall, sometimes backflipping 
 just far enough to fall away from the platform you were previously standing on. My personal favorite 
 is holding the joystick right only to have him move left, and this is with the camera behind his 
 back.
  
  The camera is another thing. It frequently moves to the most obscure location when you're trying 
 to maneuver, and it always circles the player when he tries to push an object, causing the movement 
 to stutter and take twice as long just because you have to readjust the camera. Really, they didn't 
 need to include all the spikebeds and blade traps because the Prince does a good enough job of 
 killing himself already.
  
  Down to stupid ideas, the idea that the corrupted Prince drains of health as time passes by. You're 
 supposed to be a big bad monster with charred skin and glowing eyes with a razor chain that tears 
 enemies limb from limb... oh, but you die from just idling. See how that can be used as a punchline? 
 Developers, don't do this again.
  
  Last but not least is the battle with the Vizier, one of the cheapest bosses ever. Every hit connects, 
 even if you roll out of his way, and maybe one of every twenty combos you use against him does 
 any good. If you somehow manage to his second phase, well... you've probably gotten as far as you're 
 going to go.
  
  Suddenly rocks swirl around the battlefield, and if they collide with you, you lose a good portion 
 of your health. Well, make that "when." You can't avoid them unless you stay in the center. You 
 can be a couple feet clear of them and the crappy hitbox detection will pummel you. If you do manage 
 to initiate a speed kill sequence against him, well, it's not going to work. Even if you have the 
 timing of the attack down to a science, the Vizier counters it by simply canceling your move (with 
 no transitional animation) and removing your rewind timer so that you can't try the exact move 
 again. Maybe I just got a bad copy, but the Vizier battle seems almost entirely one-sided, even 
 after having a friend over to take a crack at it.
  
  Overall it's a fun game, until you run into any of the trickier moments, and then getting through 
 it becomes a chore that you feel you have to do since you shelled out the cash for the game. You 
 can blame the illegitimate difficulty for me putting it back on my shelf to be untouched for another 
 year and a half. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIEHARD117
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  i love the prince of persia on wii and thought it would be a perfect ten just cuz it was prince 
 of persia but boy was i wrong. this game has good music selection and the graphics are fine. all 
 the ppl are great for killing. and then there are the controls, ohhhhhh the controls that has to 
 be the bigest disappoint u could ever find in a game this game neeeeded amazing controls that work 
 vary vary easily. and this didnt happen for this game, which is vary bad (again) . the controls for 
 this game are fine accept for the combat because if u try to attack u have to shake the remote 
 but then to do any other attacks u have to do combos with the nunchuk and it doesnt work what so 
 ever. the storry line in pretty decent and over all this game would be a perfect ten but its not 
 cuz of the controls. i wouldnt buy this game every, unless its on the psp cuz i give that one 10. billion! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Imagine if you bought the new Harry Potter book in July then found out that it was the same as 
 the last one. Not just the same plot, but the exact same story, word for word, just with a slightly 
 different cover. Naturally, you'd be a little annoyed. This is why we're perplexed, because other 
 than the Wii's control system and a single smattering of new chariot races, Prince Of Persia: Rival 
 Swords is absolutely identical to Prince Of Persia: The Two Thrones, a title that was released 
 on the GameCube back in November 2005. So why is it being released now under a different name? 
 We're not entirely sure (though it's probably got something to do with making money on an easy 
 port) , but rest assured if you're fooled into buying it expecting a different game, you're going 
 to be very disappointed.
  
  For what it's worth, the Prince Of Persia series is highly acclaimed as one of the best collections 
 of adventure games to date, and Rival Swords is no different. The third game in the Persia trilogy, 
 its main feature is the Prince's tendency to transform into the Dark Prince - his evil alter-ego 
 - who's armed with a bladed whip known as the Daggertail. It's a fantastic adventure and, though 
 a bit on the short side, it provides an extremely enjoyable gameplay experience.
  
  Since the only true difference between this and the GameCube game is the control system though, 
 let's focus on that. Happily, it works most of the time. Turning the Remote to rotate the camera 
 is a twist of genius, if you'll pardon the pun, and works really well, while fighting is mostly 
 satisfying, if a little annoying at times (the Remote acts as your right weapon and the Nunchuk 
 as your left, when you have one) . 
  
  But there are some motion-sensitive actions that really require the split-second input of a joypad 
 button which, to be honest, aren't much fun and tend to ruin the game somewhat. For example, triggering 
 a stealth attack involves flicking the Nunchuk, but if you're trying to do this while running along 
 a wall then you can only really activate the attack as you're running across a wall switch (as 
 the Prince will vault off that to perform the attack instead if he's not) . 
  
  Although this clearly leaves little room for error, at times the Nunchuk motion doesn't register 
 properly and your character frustratingly ends up tumbling to the floor. In situations like this, 
 pressing a button would do the job just fine, and it seems like it's a case of Ubisoft using technology 
 just because it's there rather than giving any real thought to how these new Remote controls would 
 end up influencing the gameplay. 
  
  Making The Most Of It
  Ultimately, your enjoyment of Rival Swords will depend entirely on whether you've already played 
 the GameCube title. If you've never played the game before then add 15 per cent to the score, because 
 it's an extremely enjoyable and atmospheric adventure, albeit one with controls that can cause 
 frustration if you haven't got the sharply honed reflexes of a kickboxer's cat.
  
  If, however, you've already played The Two Thrones either on the GameCube or another console, paying 
 another 40 quid for exactly the same game with different controls (when you can get it on the GameCube 
 for half that) is something we just can't recommend. We said exactly the same about Splinter Cell: 
 Double Agent a few issues ago, so let's hope Ubisoft gets a few new ideas soon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GobbleGuts451
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  I hadn't played the other Prince of Persia games until I got this one. And I can say that it isn't 
 that bad. The controls are responsive and easy to get used to. The camera manipulation isn't a 
 problem and stealth killing random guards was still amusing. Fight sequences do become a bit repetitive 
 but it later opens up into a variety of different combos you can do depending on your situation. 
 There's lots of different things you can do whether the normal Prince of Persia guy or the bad-ass 
 demon dude that has a chain, which you control. There's puzzles mixed into the game here and there 
 but none of them too challenging. It's just like a lower-grade Assassin's Creed but with more variety. 
 Of course, the character animation was a bit messed up and the price is unreasonably high. But 
 the story is basic and the game can be beaten in under a week so it's definitely only a rental. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamesMaster4Evr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  The game itself was pretty fun. Adding Prince of Persia to the Wii was a good idea. But I think 
 that the game had great potential, but just didn't make it. The graphics were good for regluar 
 scenes, but the Prince and Farah looked a little blocky. CUTscenes were gorgeous, though. 
  
  Gameplay
  --------
  Fun
  Good use of Wii controls
  Puzzles and enemies were easier 
 than Warrior Within
  Bosses weren't too difficult
  
  
  Bad
  ---
  Story was too short
  Alot of glitches
  Puzzles are annoying
  Speed kills were made too easy
 
  Fighting the Visier was easy, but swinging the remote when the dagger flashed was hard, not enough 
 time
  
  
  All in all, this game was O. K. Like SoT, this was more puzzle solving, unlike WW, where you fought 
 hords and hords of enemies. This game could've been soooo great, but it just fell short 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knightfire35
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 29, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Price of Persia. A series that has been going on for quite some time. Now the Price continues his 
 adventures on the Nintendo Wii system. His first next generation outing. Except it's not really 
 new. It's the exact same game as two thrones. I have not played two thrones all the way through, 
 but it is very similar. I think the Wii does a much better job giving the feel of the Prince to 
 players. The controls do have a bit of a problem. The wii does not always read your motions well 
 during chariot races when you need to slash. It can tire out your arm from all the swinging. But 
 besides those factors it's an amazing game. This game was my first official Prince of Persia game 
 on a console, and I love how you can run along walls, swing on pillars, and to all kinds of awesome 
 moves. It really makes the game fun, because your not always fighting, your finding a way to get 
 around and solve puzzles. Graphics while the game prevails. The graphics have been improved, and 
 are ready for the Wii. If your a fan of the series, this game is worth buying. If you already played 
 the Two Thrones, there is not much need. Over all it's a great Wii adventure game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opossumtrot
Rating: 8
Date: May 13, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  I love the Prince of Persia series (biased review) . I played the first two on PC when I was about 
 14 and have played playstation, psp and wii versions of the titles released since. I have yet to 
 play Sands of Time, but I will.. 
  
  Rival Swords is a pretty entertaining game. The storyline alone is enough to keep a fan of the 
 series, like myself, engaged. The controls of the wii port are interesting, but the camera rotation 
 that is bound to the tilt of the wiimote is annoying.. as.. hell.. (its configurable, thank god) . 
 The puzzles are challenging enough and the length of the game is satisfying, standard for the franchise. 
 The overall action and gameplay are pleasant and the options you have to rewind your actions make 
 it fun to try different things out. As with previous titles in the series the combat is fun but 
 after a short time you get the hang of it and will perform the same set of about 3-4 different 
 combos. A good buy for fans of the series or anyone who likes acrobatic puzzle games. Anyone else 
 should rent it first for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elliotj23
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  this game is excellent its way better than prince of persia: sands of time. every one i err know 
 that has that game says its good. the only bad thing about this game is err that the puzzles are 
 too hard. the review of the game i am reviewing which is called prince of persia or shortened to 
 pop if you like is a bit hard but really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really good err game  
 i would rate the game pop a errr 9 out of errrm was the number that comes after nine agen errmm 
 oh yh 10 yup i rate this a nine out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AweWiiGamer1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 5:27 am PT
Review:  As UbiSoft first announced, Prince of Persia: Rival Swords for the Wii is the whole Two Thrones 
 adventure, except with a different title, and Nunchuck and Wii Remote use of the controlling, and 
 the game is exactly that. Whilst the story is nothing different to the orginial hit on PS2, the 
 controlling is different, in where you have to use the Nunchuck to control the Prince and the Wii 
 Remote for sword and knife slashing attack, to pick things up, and to perfrorm complex jumps.
 
  
  The controls may sound simple enough to win any die-hard Persia fan over, but not so much.
  
 
  There are moments in the Wii version of Prince of Persia where the controls are just simply not 
 there. Like when you have to run across a wall, a press A to jump, the controls just do their own 
 thing.
  
  In short, Prince of Persia: Rival Swords is a reasonable attempt to copy a classic game, but the 
 unpolished controlling and lack of anything new will not bring any newcomers entirely enriched 
 from the experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waelzleb
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Many person have play Two Thrones and they think Rival sword is the same gameplay and story mode 
 but one thing that misunderstand is that is on the Wii title. Almost every game that transfer or 
 copy into the Wii version got a graphic normal or low graphic who own the Ps3 and X-box 360. But 
 for me it the gameplay that matter and it pretty awsome. If u play Rival Sowrd on the psp and Two 
 Thrones u should know how the story started and the girl kind of dying at the beginin of the game. The 
 bad part about this game is the camera the camera is so sensitive that sometime u cant even see 
 where u going and sometime it really hard to go through them. The outcome is a very good game for 
 some kid who never try Prince of Persia series because most of it rated M-----Mature. This one is 
 for teen because blood became sand and the langue not that great . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombie_puke
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 28, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  If you played the Two Thrones adventure on the PS2/ GC, don't be fooled- its a direct port!
  
  It offers a challenge, the remote combo combat is pretty decent and if you've never played 
 it before, you're in for a treat.
  
  What if you have? The new remote combat system is okay, but what else?
  
  The graphics are 
 the same to the PS2 version, no new puzzles or enemies and its actually harder (usually a bad thing) .
 
  
  So is it worth it? Maybe if it had been refreshed a little, but it isn't. Dissapointing. If decent 
 to new gamers. Maybe silghtly better.
  
  The remote sword fighting? Hold your knife in the remote, 2nd sword in the nunchuck, flailing like 
 a mad man but at least the results are satisfying.
  
  BITE SIZE- the game in itty bitty chunks of easy to digest info.
  
  Hours you'll play- 10-20 
 if it holds you attention
  Calories you'll burn- A few
  Response on the remotes- Medium
  Game style- Stealth 'em up/ adventure
  Mostly aimed at- Casual gamers
  
  Better than- Devil 
 May Cry 2 - 4.0
  Worse than- Assasins Creed- 9.0
  
  Rating: DECENT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axelviiii
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2008 1:08 am PT
Review:  The Prince of Persia is a series I've always admired, yet from afar. It's not because it's a bad 
 series in any way, it's just that there's not many I can get. sure there's Sands of Time, but thats 
 actually kinda hard to find. So, when I saw that Rival Swords was going to the Wii, I almost Immediatly 
 dissmissed it as just another Ubisoft marvel for the Blood lovers. However, It's teen rating made 
 me giddy and, I'm glad to say, buy it for cheap (used of course) .
  
  I'm gonna review it now, I swear.
  
  Rival Swords, or Two Thrones, or My title for the game; 
 The Many Wonderous Escapades of Schizo-Prince, has you once more taking up the role of the poor 
 nameless Prince. He returns home from seven years away at the Island o' Time bringing with him 
 the Emepress of Time, Kaileena. He promptly finds himself barraged by flaming projectiles. he soon 
 arrives at shore, weaponless as usual and having his girl stolen. Insert nice long, yet amusing, 
 Tutorial-type level. he eventually catches up with the Blue Meanies of Azad (yes you read that 
 right) to find, surprise surprise, the Vizer. from here everything goes to crap and ol' Princey 
 has to get to and efectivley kill the now mutated Vizer. He then discovers while inside a pit or 
 something like it, that he has turned into a Funny-farm Escapee, and has started to hear a weird 
 voice. now Im REALLY gonna review the game.
  
  ~Gameplay~
  The gameplay is good, for the most part. The prince controls like a dream. He moves well, Wallruns 
 are always fun, and he has some rather nice stealth abilities. Combat, However, can be a little 
 haphazardous. It involves, Unsurprisingly Waggle controls. Now, I liked the combat, it was really 
 cool, but somebody with significantly weaker stamina (if there is such a being) may find it fustrating 
 to have to constanly be waggling the remote until their arm falls off. This also presents a slight 
 problem for hardcore gamers. The Hardcore guys most likely will want to pull of badass combos, 
 but will find it fustrating when the Prince throws his opposing force instead of kicking them. 
 However, once you get down the combat, you'll start to have a real ball. Another cool thing about 
 Rival Swords is the Speed Kill system. It adds a nice amount stealth to the gameplay. Most gamers 
 may worry, however, that this will oversimplify the disposal of enemies. never fear, most of the 
 time you have to go to hell and back just to kill all the surrounding enemies. The addition of 
 the aptly named Dark Prince is cool too, he adds new depth to the combat, which was already thicker 
 than a fine steak. however, combat in the game isn't as important as the enviornment. The enemy 
 is truly the enviornment itself, with the enemies more of obstacles that appreciatively mix up 
 the adventure. It's an interesting concept that i want to see more often.
  so, all around, the Gameplay is pretty good, especially the movement. ~ 9.0
  
  ~Story~
  The 
 story continues that of the prince from the previous games. In this game, he returns to Babylon. 
 This is a nice addition, considering how we know hes the Prince of Persia, and have yet to actually 
 see his kingdom. The revelation of the dark prince's existance is a neat addition to the story. 
 He adds humor and more personality to Rivals swords.
  Althogether, The story does rather well ~ 9.4
  
  ~Graphics~
  Rival Swords doesn't exceed 
 in the graphics department, but it doesn't fail either. it's just ok. The Geography in the game 
 is beautiful, if not slightly dated. The character models didn't blow me away, but they didn't 
 make me want to rip out my eyeballs. The graphics are pretty run-of-the-mill
  In short, the graphics are good, just not exceedingly awesome ~ 7.8
  
  ~Replay Value~
  This 
 game may seem worthless replay-wise because basically youd be playing the same adventure over again 
 three times. However, I find myself surprisingly drawn to playing it many times. Each difficulty 
 (Easy, Normal, Hard) presents tougher baddies, which allows you to use cooler and cooler combos. 
 Also, free form fighting means you can throw as many enemies of the roofs as you want. Looking 
 for the Health bonuses is also pretty fun.
  So, It's Replay Value says gamestop won't be seeing this game for a while.
  
  So, is Rival 
 Swords worth buying? Yes and No. Yes to those who havent played Two Thrones. Why? Well, if you 
 haven't played Two Thrones, own a Wii, and are reading this, likelyhood is you cant play M games, 
 so this game is probably the one for you. Yes and No to those who have played Two Thrones. Why? 
 Well, No because while this game does what ever good PoP game should, it's just a port, and doesn't 
 particularly have anything special meriting a buy. However, I say Yes because it's still a PoP 
 game, and you might want to get some use from your Wii while waiting for Brawl or No More Heroes 
 or Prince of Persia 4.
  
  So, I hope that my review hath helped you, and may you enjoy as much as I did, Prince of Persia; 
 Rival Swords. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamez-king
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia for the wii is a game worth buying, as long as its not too much. I got it for 
 cheap so i cant complain. On to the game, Rival Swords is the same as Two Thrones- so why didn't 
 they just leave it at that?
  The gameplay is impressive as the ps2 and the wii controls add an enjoyable experience. The game 
 on a whole is definetly more of a strategy style game in terms of trying to find what wall to jump 
 off and onto which pole. A factor that could be improved is that ther is far more walking around 
 than killing enemies. Also you die more by falling off platforms that being slaughtered by your 
 foe. The graphics are certainly better than some wii games like wii sports. But if your expecting 
 ps3 quality, it's just not the same. If you want an action packed, jumping off walls and sneaking 
 up on enemies game for the wii, Prince of Persia: Rival Swords is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimybrit
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Okay, first i wanna say i dont hate this game i thoght it was pretty awesome..
  It's just that the controls kinda sucked although i did like sliding down windows and running walls 
 other than that the fighting controls were basically swing the wii mote a bit to the left, a bit 
 to the right, down, up, down, up.... There was no improvements at all from the Two Thrones other 
 than the M rating. No graphical improvement either. It'd be a great game if it were @#$%ing 20 or 
 30 bucks.. Fitty bucks is high. the game is still fun and you should probally try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgtfoxy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Overall the game is very good! The graphics are good, AI are intelligent enough (somewhat mediocre) 
 it runs smooth, and the storyline is good, if it werent for the fact that they have used nearly 
 the same storyline as The Sands of Time. My biggest beef with this game is the disappointing use 
 of the WII controller. Sure you swing the stick and he swings the sword, but the problem is the 
 lack of need to swing the swords in any knid of synchronized or patternlike effect. I swing the 
 sticks reall fast and he does something totally unrelated and much cooler. For instance i can swing 
 the stick twice in a right diagonal slice and he will do some crazy figure 8 attack. Other than 
 that it is a good game and I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dagamedudeguy10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  Prince of persia is really fun. The funnest part of prince of persia is being able to control time 
 itself and to run on walls and bounce off them and to do super jumps at certain edges and all that 
 stuff. It's not as fun being the dark prince as it is the light prince. every level is very fun. 
 When you beat the game a good thing to do is go to the gallery then video and watch all the videos 
 one hilariously funny. The artwork has some pretty good artwork to but mmake sure you watch the 
 funny video and beat the game first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kungphooey
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 4, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Perisa Rival Swords is amazing. The jumping around and acrobatic tricks are the most 
 spectaculat part of the game. The framerate is solid, everything looks great for a wii game, and 
 the prince's somber voice provides good backround during your adventure. The combat is the low 
 point, being somewhat boring at times.
  
  The best feature by far is the time reversal. THe ability to go back in time and fix your mistake 
 is an excelent part of the game. This game's only flaw is it's comabt, and you'll often get stuck 
 on one perticualr puzzle or some little thing for a moment, but this game is worthwile and should 
 be perchased by any action game fan. Period.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  The best feature by far is the time reversal. THe ability to go back in time and fix your mistake 
 is an excelent part of the game. This game's only flaw is it's comabt, and you'll often get stuck 
 on one perticualr puzzle or some little thing for a moment, but this game is worthwile and should 
 be perchased by any action game fan. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia is not a revolutionary game by any means. It does what fans of the franchise would 
 expect and delivers good gameplay with good puzzle play. Prince of Persia is graphically acceptable. 
 It doesn't look as good as Twilight Princess, but the graphics are much more forgiveable than that 
 of Red Steel. The sounds and music is what you would expect from the series. Great musical score 
 that sets the mood. The wii controls stay out of the way, but sometimes the controls don't respond 
 quickly with combos, but it doesn't take to long to adapt. The game seems to be a little shorter 
 than the likes of God of War. The boss fights are excellent with mini games that mirror that of 
 GOW, by flicking the wii remote with correct timing. The game's fighting system is tweaked for 
 the better, some things such as falling off places for no reason is fixed and it makes the game 
 more playable. All in all this game is a good pick up for those guys wanting some hardcore games 
 to keep them from going party game crazy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashnard08
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  I'm keepin it short and simple. The combat style is so much more enjoyable and it enhances the 
 game so much. The speed kills are much better, especially the final one, it feels like such a great 
 relief swinging it that last time. Anywhoo, If you enjoy the games and have a Wii, buy it if you've 
 only rented the others. It's worth buying it because the fighting is just so much more enjoyable. 
 The Dark Prince scenes are so much more realistic, that when you fight as him, it's just plain 
 amazing. All in all, but they game!!!!! I have to say it is so much better than any of the Two 
 Thrones no matter what system you're on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nelzoma
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  This was a great game with beautiful graphics and it took a great advantage of the Wiis unique 
 control however that was its main downfall, the devellopers spent too much time trying to make 
 every thing look cool tthat they forgot to work more on the storyline and length of the game i 
 mean i wwas able to beat it in like 13 hours and i was really bad at it. As for the combat it was 
 great, there were so many combos that when you accidently failed one you learned another. This 
 will be the best suggestion you'll ever get and i mean it, don't buy the game rent it or else you 
 will be very unhappy i know from experiance with the game super paper mario. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shanerfin
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 9, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. It had a wonderful feel to it when you were climbing up walls and doing cool 
 stunts. You are a Prince who's cities been destroyed and your pretty much out to get the princess 
 slash seek revenge you know the classic storyline. The coolest part about this game imo was all 
 the cool weapons you could get and the worst part about the game was the graphics. This game will 
 get you a good 20 to 40 hours and is a good game but i would wait for a price drop. Oh and another 
 things i should mention is you have a type of darksuit that makes you look bad. Plus you get a 
 whip that owns noobs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umd1998
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 3, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Lets get this out of the way first: I hate platformers.
  Only a select few havent drawn my ire, usually by adding enough extras to make up for the infuriating 
 jumps and puzzles. Thankfully, the Prince of Persia games do that, and the lone Wii offering, 
 Rival Swords, controls perfectly. Ill lament its last-gen graphics later.
  The Prince of Persia franchise is known for its devious obstacles, and spinning blades, moving 
 ledges and chasms abound in Rival Swords, the finale of the three-game series.
  Thankfully, the camera works perfectly and is easy to maneuver  vital for planning your next move.
 
  Combat is where the game shines. Gameplay is engrossing with the Wiis wireless controllers. Wildly 
 swinging the Wiimote and nunchuk produces the Princes graceful swordfighting acrobatics.
  Attack combos are listed in the pause menu, but I found myself sticking to the same simple chopping 
 motions, which were fun and quite a workout.
  New to Rival Swords is getting to play as the Dark Prince. The Princes alter ego is basically 
 the same, but uses the Daggertail  a long chain of blades that can slash foes from afar  in addition 
 to up-close combat with the Dagger of Time. But the Dark Princes advantages come at a price  
 his life constantly depletes, necessitating a keep-moving-or-die pace.
  Speed Kills are another new wrinkle in Rival Swords. You sneak up and make quick work of foes 
 by flicking the controllers to on-screen prompts. The sound effects and voice acting are stellar, 
 especially when the Prince argues internally with his dark side. Developer Ubisoft ditched the 
 grunge-metal soundtrack from the previous game, Warrior Within, for more traditional Middle Eastern-style 
 music that ebbs and flows with the action.
  Alas, Rival Swords is a Wii-make  it was originally released in 2005 as The Two Thrones for 
 last-gen consoles. There are only two real differences: Wii gesture controls and less blood splatter, 
 which dropped the games rating from Mature to Teen.
  Something that didnt change from the 05 title: the graphics. And clipping problems are plentiful 
  the Princes hair passes through his face, and his hands often appear to be in solid objects.
 
  Its difficult to justify paying $50 for Rival Swords, when the GameCubes The Two Thrones 
 costs $15 used. Yes, the gesture swordplay is fun and immersive, but thats a lot of money for 
 a 2-year-old Wii-make. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d-ray12
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 14, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  This game did not live up to the hype of what i had expected. I had heard before i got this game 
 how great the previous prince of persia game's were, but when i played this one all I could think 
 was how could i spend $50.00 on this game. Thier are some good things about this game, like how 
 the sneak kills are pretty exciting, but get extremely old after awhile. The graphics aren't impressive 
 at all. I've seen better even on the playstation 1. The fighting is boring and repetitive. I highly 
 advise anyone that's about to buy this game to rent it first try it out, and hey if you like then 
 that's your opinion. But i couldn't stand the fact that i had spent and waisted $50.00 on this 
 game when I could've bought something much more worth it like super paper mario, or something. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monkey-Man1234
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 8, 2007 11:59 pm PT
Review:  To make things clear, this game is a port. It is a year later since The Two Thrones came out, and 
 now it has been reincarnated into Rival Swords. We all know the Wii isn't a graphical powerhouse, 
 but the graphics are disappointing.
  
  Let's get to gameplay. Your acrobatic moves are mostly controlled by buttons. So, you may be wondering 
 where does the motion sensitive controls come into play. Well the answer is combat. The Wiimote 
 controls the Prince's right hand weapon, and the nunchuck controls the left hand weapon. The best 
 part is the stealth kills using the Wiimote. When you sneak behind an enemy you can start a stealth 
 kill. A sequence will play and when the Prince's dagger flashes, you swing the Wiimote to make 
 him attack. This can be incredibly fun on some of the tougher enemies and bosses.
  
  Even though there is a lot of combat, the main focus is acrobatic moves and leaps. You'll be running 
 along walls and jumping around on tight beams. Periodicly through the game you'll get transformed 
 into an alter-ego version of the Prince. With him you'll be able to get past certain parts that 
 would be otherwise unpassable. While running on a wall you will swing the nunchuck to swing the 
 Dark Prince's chain whip to further extend your run by swinging on some thing. You also get some 
 new moves involving the whip while being the Dark Prince. The downside is that you constantly get 
 your health drained while you're the Dark Prince, and you need to kill enemies to gain it back.
 
  
  The visuals aren't impressive unfortunately. There is sort of a fuzzy feeling to the graphics. 
 The CG cutscenes are all very impressive to look at though. Ubisoft has also removed a few things 
 to make this title T. In the original you could cut people in half and blood squirts every where, 
 all of that good stuff. Well no cutting in half, and your enemies bleed sand now. When the Prince 
 gets hit he bleeds a little bit though.
  
  Prince of Persia: Rival Swords is a remake of the third (and final) part of a series. If you plan 
 on buying this make sure to catch up on your PoP story. This game also would appeal most to those 
 who didn't play The Two Thrones the first time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bizarroninja
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 6, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game cause I am a big fan of the POP trilogy and I wanted to see what the wii controls 
 were like. I've played and beaten Two Thrones on the Gamecube so it should have been easy to play 
 this game. The game as far as I can see is pretty much exactly the same as it's Gamecube counterpart 
 except of course for the controls. After I got used to the controls, I became more comfortable. 
 Soon I realized that I am very picky about where I want the camera and the wii remote doesn't really 
 let me fine tune it. This leads to misjumps and wallrunning in the wrong direction. And when you 
 don't have the ability to rewind or you really need your sand tanks, this can get really frustrating. 
 The controls feel a little hard to do all at once and in a game where timing is important, I wasn't 
 doing too well. So if you can get used to the controls and don't care where your camera is, then 
 maybe you'll enjoy this game a little more. If you're looking to buy this, you should probably 
 go with the Gamecube version since graphically it's the same and you can get it a lot cheaper. 
 Still this is a game you should definately play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cameron06
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  numbchu swings your left blade, and right Wii mote swings your right blade. The game utilises a 
 thing called stelth kills wich is when you have at a sertin time that you can swing down on the 
 numbchu and you enter this mini game wich the game goes slow-mo and you sneek up on the enemy you 
 have split timing when the blade shines you shake the controler and after a few hits you can kill 
 the enemy wich is argibly the most fun thing in the intire game.
  
  graphics:
  The game uses th Wii's engiane to power it wich insent sayingmuch the ame would be considered to 
 be a middle end looking ps2 game wich insent much, there are some nice cutscenes in the game but 
 they are alot of real time cinemas wich look nottoo bad butthere are things like bitsof his hair 
 going though his face but the charcters in the real time cinemas dont look horrible to say the 
 least. the in game engiane looks good, there alo of nice artwork and some nice textures and whatnot. 
 The gamealso has a nice smooth frame rate.
  
  sound:
  nothing too special normal blade stike hits with some semi good voice acting. nothing to stand 
 out but overall the sound is what you'd come to expect out of this game, but it does have a pretty 
 good music during gameplay.
  
  story:
  you sailing back to a city wich you know quite well on your whn you rech there you ship gets wrecked 
 and your city is under attack the girl wich has realation withyou (the prince of persia) his taken 
 and you make you way into the city taking out allthe guards and then you go to vareous locations 
 doing vareous thing I wouldet like to spoil anything. while its good it has some nice rendered 
 cinemas but most of itis told thourgh real time cinemas. while it not to inspired it'll keep you 
 happy.
  
  closing comments:
  POP: Rival Swords is a great port of a great ps2 game, the intergration ofthe Wii controls arnt 
 flawless but there sure are fun, the stelth kill are extremly fun the combat is nice and for old 
 fans rent it if you like what you see buy it, and for peoples first time into the series DEFANTLY 
 RENT IT and then buy it just to mae sure, for people who havent play POP games before bu have a 
 Wii you have to experience this one. But for old fans still rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto703
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 17, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  This is really just the same thing that you saw earlier like 2 years before. Anyway lets get to 
 it. This game has pretty good controls and I have few complaints but sometimes they don't work. 
 Also guess what guys? More quick time events! When will the stop copying RE4? Anyway these quick 
 time events are the best I have ever seen in a Wii game. The graphics are better now but in very 
 little amount. Not to mention they have excluded blood! I am a violent person but oh well. The 
 sound is great and helps the mood. This game won't last you long and the unlockables are useless. 
 It is still a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason_jalet
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 13, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  PoP: RS is a fun game to play, and I finished the game just a few hours ago, so my review is fair 
 an honest. I found the final boss VERY frustating as the controls were unresponsive and the camera 
 was totally messed up. However, I enjoyed the game as a whole and here are some points woth noting:
 
  
  Storyline: decent and not too complicated. Easy to follow and good enough to keep you interested 
 as you progress. The ending is nice and cheerfull. ****
  
  Characters: I found the Prince a little bit of an annoying character -simply because he never knows 
 when to shut up. His accent does not suit his character at all. The Dark Prince sounds even worse. 
 However, voice animation is well produced and doesnt feel too overacted. ***
  
  Sound: the music is quite good, effects are right-on, and speech is ok. Nothing to complain about 
 here. *****
  
  Gameplay: If you've played other PoP games before, the gameplay will be very familiar to you. However, 
 the Wii controls can be a little frustrating at times, and the 'camera-twist' system just doesn't 
 work at all (I had it disabled throughout the whole game) . Once you get used to the game, controls 
 become easier and won't be too hard to master. ***
  
  Graphics: i found the graphics to be very dissapointing. I know the Wii is capable of more (eg: 
 the Godfather, Zelda TP...) . The cutscenes are nice but the in-game graphics are a total let-down. 
 However, if you can look beyond the graphics, you will find a truly great game. **
  
  Wii controls: can be sometimes unresponsive, but work well as a whole. I found them a little hard 
 to deal with when it came to beating bosses. ***
  
  Overall: a fun experience to be had. A worthy sequel to the Pop: WW. **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 21, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia Rival Swords is a bad game not because it isn't fun, because it is kind of fun, 
 but because it's a big huge rip off and everyone should know that. After I played this game, I 
 hated Ubisoft, and I'm not even kidding.
  
  Alright, so here's what they did, in what I think as an attempt to trick people- first they changed 
 the name, it's now called Rival Swords, they also changed the rating from M to T. Other than that, 
 it's the same exact game as The Two Thrones, except with motion control. Yeah, and the only place 
 it says that it's the Two Thrones is in small font on the back of the case, it says Based on The 
 Two Thrones. That's it, and that's really stupid cause it's the same exact game.
  
  They want 50 dollars for this too. Two Thrones is only 20. Why I bought this game instead of TTT, 
 I don't know. I really don't, but I really regret it now. And, the motion controls aren't even 
 worth it. They work but they add nothing at all to the experience.
  
  Okay, yeah the game is still fun to play, it's got cool mechanics and cool acrobatic crap but it's 
 a rip off. I'm warning you, don't buy this.
  
  Now I'm guessing you want to learn about the GAME itself, correct? Well the story starts as the 
 Prince and his girl coming back home, however all of a sudden the ship he's on is attacked and 
 he finds out his city has been corrupted by all these bad guys, you know very little at the start 
 but the story expands.
  
  The gameplay is a whole lot like before, it's heavily based on adventuring and puzzles mixed with 
 a bit of combat. What The Two Thrones tried to introduce was new speed kills which are stealth 
 kills the prince can perform on his enemies. For the most part, they work ok, but it's much easier 
 when done with a gamepad than with the Wii remote which does not work as well as you'd want. In 
 addition to that, you'll fight some boss battles, monsters, race chariots, and of course control 
 time.
  
  If you have played past games you already know that once the prince gets the Dagger, he can control 
 time. Well, once you get this, you'll start with the ability to rewind time, so if you screw up, 
 you get more chances. You'll collect more power ups for this dagger as you progress through the 
 game, but it really helps because the game is chock-full of try-and-die situations, with all the 
 puzzles there are.
  
  The graphics are really showing their age. They were once pretty good, not awesome, but they did 
 the job well done with the smooth framerate (if you were playing on Gamecube or Xbox) and a great 
 design to it. Well, the framerate and design still is pretty good, but this game is now a year 
 and a half old, and belongs to the previous generation of video games so what was said a year and 
 a half ago cannot be said today.
  
  The Wii is supposed to be a next generation console, this couldn't pass on an Xbox 360 or a Playstation 
 3, so why won't developers get their act straight and try to improve the technical qualities of 
 their video games? This makes once-great games seem like a dull and lazy effort, if any effort 
 at all, when ported to Next Generation consoles a year and a half later.
  
  The music is still great, it definitely fits the game very well even though it's not something 
 that you'd want to buy a soundtrack too, it works great for the game. What is awesome though, is 
 the voice acting which comes in clear, and all the voice actors lending their voices to this game 
 sure did a fine job doing so. This is the one aspect of the game that does not disappoint.
  
  Now their are a few extras in Rival Swords, but all these extras were in the PS2/GCN/Xbox game 
 before this so don't expect any new content, just expect the extras that were in the game before. 
 It's worth playing through to get these, but at the same time, they're nothing to write home about 
 either. The game comes in at a decent length of about 10 hours, making it a perfect weekend game. 
 It starts of relatively easy, but the difficulty steps up once you gain the ability to become Dark 
 Prince. If this game drops to $20 brand new anytime soon, take my score of 6.1 and bring it up 
 to a 7.5. However, as of now, Ubisoft is demanding $50 for this game, which is $30 more that it 
 should be. If you have never played this game, go buy the Gamecube version for twenty dollars for 
 the best deal, and then go home and enjoy it on your Nintendo Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackBauer1005
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 10, 2007 2:54 am PT
Review:  When Prince of Persia Rival Swords was released i had a friend who brougt it and said I have the 
 new Wii only Prince Of Persia , if you think Rival Swords is a new game in the Prince Of Persia 
 series you are mistaken as Ribal Swords is The Two Thrones on the Wii. The graphics have not been 
 upgraded since the Gamecube version of The Two Thrones which is pointless. The only difference 
 with Rival Swords is that the controls are different which can make the game a bit easier. If you 
 don't own a Gamecube version of The Two Thrones and have a Wii then get it but don't get the Wii 
 version if you own the Gamecube version. It has been over 17 months since the Gamecube Version 
 was released and pretty much everyone has completed it. If you are getting it anyway you are wasting 
 money you can use to get a new Wii game like the new Resident Evil 4 on the Wii (which has extras 
 the Gamecube version didn't) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HOMIE_G64
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 7, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  A LONG time ago, the Prince married the Sultan's daughter after rescuing her in 60 minutes from 
 the Vizier and rocked the 2D Platformer scene (Prince of Persia for the Apple II) . A little while 
 ago, a game finished off the Sands of Time subseries and rocked the 3D Platformer scene (The Two 
 Thrones) . Now, T2T is ported to the Wii in the form of Rival Swords. Fortunately, Wii lacked some 
 great titles from 3rd parties and RS came in just in time. Unfortunately, the employees of UbiSoft 
 must have thought they had rewound time (who knows? Maybe one of them thought they found the real 
 sands of time) , or else they surely wouldn't have sold this for $50.
  Gameplay 10/10:
  Same ol' Prince. Fortunately, gameplay is one of the things that we DON'T want changed. From running 
 on walls to clinging to dagger plates, you will savor every moment of it. Like all Wii games, the 
 motion controls may bring some added difficulty to fighting and speed kills, but it also brings 
 the novelty of using to Wii-mote to fighting. Everything from opportune speed kills to platform 
 jumping requires thinking. But thats not all. At some points, you will get to use the Dark Prince 
 and his Daggertail, in which abilities unavailable to the normal Prince (such as swinging around) 
 will be at your disposal. The Dark Prince does more damage and jumps farther, but will lose health 
 over time. He even has a different speed kill than the normal Prince. Throughout the game, you 
 can collect Sand Credits to view pictures in the Gallery. Personally, I don't care about the concept 
 art and stuff, but I found that I unlocked all the pictures by just playing through the game. There 
 are secrets after playing the game, but I found myself content just to play around with them for 
 a couple of minutes. The length of the game isn't that long either. I found that I was able to 
 beat it in the five days on easy mode without GameFaqs. com - just in time for me to return it to 
 BlockBuster (but then again... the amount of time I spent over it... around 4 hours a day) .
  Graphics 3/10:
  These are days of amazing jumps in the graphical department of games (but then, 
 that would describe every generation of video games) . However, RS creators UbiSoft neglected to 
 work at all on improving the graphics AT ALL. Seriously, the standard for good gameplay doesn't 
 change much, the standard for sound almost never, but come on, the first thing most people look 
 at IS THE GRAPHICS! The Wii cannot handle 360/PS3/Modern PC graphics, but it can almost definately 
 handle more than what PoP offers.
  Sound 10/10:
  The sound doesn't suck. It doesn't come out from the crap speakers in the 'mote. Next...!
  Value 
 2/10:
  Again, it is the SAME GAME WITH THE SAME GRAPHICS. So why is it $50 while the GC version that can 
 be played on the Wii is $20? Even $40 would be reasonably pricy, but NOT $50. The Wii-mote controls 
 ARE novel, but controls are controls, no matter how cool they are.
  
  This game might have been awsome for the last generation's consoles and this generation's handheld, 
 but it has NO PLACE in this generation's console. Even if it still is great. Even if you can look 
 past the graphics, you can probably look past the controls and buy the GC version. If you HAVE 
 to have the awsome controls, rent the Wii version, for you don't HAVE to beat it on every single 
 difficulty. Otherwise, trick your into buying it (not with this or the GS review obvsiously) and 
 borrow it from him. Whatever you do, buying the Wii version should be your last resort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NDS_Mario
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 7, 2007 3:20 am PT
Review:  This is an excellent game for the Wii and it's controller. I have played The Prince of Persia the 
 Sands of time when it first came out for the PS2. I am totally enjoying this Rival Swords on the 
 Wii. I have my Wii hooked up with the original Nintendo compoment cables to a 23 LCD set to widescreen 
 and at 480p. The graphics are awesome for the Wii's power. The controls on Rival take awhile to 
 get use to but once you get it down pat everything just responds perfectly. I am glag that I purchased 
 this game, and have many hours of fun ahead of me for weeks to come. I recommend this game to anyone 
 who likes a platformer combined with hack n slash to buy this game. ENJOY ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joseph113
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 4, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay gets an 8 because every once in awhile (about 5% of the time) the controls are unresponsive 
 and on the last boss the motion controls really get in the way.
  
  The graphics werent the best the game didn't even support wide screen. Ubisoft really hasn't been 
 trying with the graphics (ex. far cry vengeance) but it really doesn't affect the game.
  
  The sound was really good except throughout the game the story is being told and while you're going 
 through hard parts you really aren't paying attention to the story.
  
  The game is a good game that will last a casual gamer about 6 days but it really has no replay 
 value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wannweed
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 11, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  I played Sands of Time, and the Warrior Within. But I never got a chance to play Two Thrones. So 
 this might be the reason I picked up this game and gave it a shot. Im already 83% through and still 
 loving the gameplay. The controls are great, the graphics aren't to good for the Wii. Now don't 
 get me wrong... there is alot blood and gore but I think blood and gore are too much for any of 
 the POP games. And each level you get too, gets worse and worse each time. but you can actually 
 get into the game and it is fun. So, I advise everyone to atleast play 2 hours of this game and 
 actually get into the game until you critize it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nelrazzaz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 2, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  This game was so amazing because it gave you a challenge in the game but I got past all of those 
 challenges. I am going to give this game such a good review because I think it deserves a great 
 review for its great game play. In the game you have to have great timing with a lot of stuff like 
 when you sneak up on somebody you will need to use a special attack called the silent kill as I 
 recalled it was named. If you dont wait and start slashing the wii remote just to make it go faster 
 it wont work. If you try it to late then you have a big problem. There were things Iiked about 
 this game and things I disliked but I only found 1 thing that I didn't like about the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: link15000
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 11, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia is one of those great games that have been here FOREVER! Realy, the first one 
 was in 1989. It's been ported, improved, made into 3-D, refined, perfected, and ported again. But, 
 is the port to the Wii any good? Prince of Persia about a guy simply named the Prince. In the 3rd 
 part in the Trilogy, he discovers that by not killing the Emperess of time, Kylina, in PoP 2, Prince 
 has undone what he did in PoP 1. Meaning that he never helped Phara, and never killed the Vazere. 
 And, as though that's not bad enough, The Vazere has killed Kylina with the Dagger of time, has 
 gained immortality, and is conquring Bablyon. What's worse is that Prince's own dark side has come 
 out, and is making him transform into something with flaming head, ash-skin, and a melted face. 
 Commence fangirl squel. So the Prince has to kill the Vazere, save Phara, and keeping himself out 
 of the dark side. This is going to be a VERY long week. While the story is good, the point of any 
 game is gameplay. The thing that makes the Prince of Persia games stand out are the sands of time. 
 Whenever you kill an enemiy, they drop sands, which alow you to go back in time a few seconds, 
 slow time down, and more. Speaking of killing, If you've played Zelda: Twilight Princess on the 
 Wii (like me) you will have little if any trouble hopping into this game's combat. Though, I wouldn't 
 reccommend you actually jump into the game, you know, could break the Wii. There is a differance 
 when playing as the Dark Prince. Dark Prince is faster and stronger, but he constinly losess helth. 
 So you have to keep on beating enimes. The Graphics always variate between meh and kick-ass. Sometimes 
 you see the textures, sometime you don't. there are a couple of times where the framerate hiccups, 
 but it doesn't realy affect the game that much. The CGI is awesome. Ingame, not so much. Now the 
 sound design is also great, great vioce acting, expecally by Sasuke Uch.... hold on. What? Sasuke's 
 not real?... I bet you next your going tell Naruto isn't real e.............. WHAT DO YOU MEAN HE 
 ISN'T!!!......... Ok, by the Prince, the Vazere, and well everybody really. It feels like a movie 
 with the VO alone. Overall, it's well worth a rental. While the game itself is fun. I want to see 
 better sword play then just shaking the Wii-mote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: panosfz6
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 25, 2007 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay : Great fun liked it allot
  
  Graphics: Very good for the wii had no problems
  
  Sound :Excellent a real enjoyment Value : After playing through on easy I still have Normal 
 mode and Hard so I think it will keep me busy for some time really worth the money.
  
  Controls : This is where this game shines I really enjoyed play POP with the wii-mote it gave me 
 a hole new experience. Didnt like the battles though because it was mostly just shaking the remote.
 
  
  Overall : I really enjoyed this game and I think anyone with a wii should give it a go really worth 
 every Euro (penny) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluffy912
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 25, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing! The wii takes full control of the prince and it just brings the prince back 
 and better than ever! The quality coudl've been been better but during the cutscenes it looked 
 as if i was watching a movie on a plasma screen tv. The speed skill is fun but during the boss 
 fights when i activated the speed kill it let me hit the guy once or twice but the third time it 
 wouldn't even give me the chance of stabbing him to death. Being the dark prince was fun except 
 for the part that you die if you don't kill someone or get some sands of time. Overall this is 
 a great and it's worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fang_lord
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 24, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  Well, this is my 13th Wii game so far (and all r great, so dont complain about having no good wii 
 games...) and this is definatly a game worth picking up, even with its problems.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics... even for the wii (which is a powerfull little beast when it wants 
 to be lol) are pretty mediocore, BUT! no great game has become great on graphics alone! Well, for 
 one , its mabe just slightly better than the X-Box version, but the game still looks pretty good, 
 and on a whole good enough to be happy with to the end. The gane has crashed on me twice, i dunno 
 why, but try and play the game when the wii is cool, other wise it is prone to jamming.
  
  SOUND
  
  Good voice acting, and some nice music. Not much else to say really, apart from the 
 sound glitch i have ONCE came across, it makes a horrible noiuse wen u go for a speed kill, and 
 it ruins the great sound of the game. Apart from that, great.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Gameplay... well its pretty good. Its got all your wall running, backflips, swinging and comabt 
 that you would expect in a PoP game, and with the addition of the SPEED KILL it makes the game 
 more focused on stealth... if you want it to. Although the speed kills were in the original PoP 
 the two thrones, haveing the luxery of stabbing the enemy with the wii mote, tho a minor add on, 
 is still pretty cool imo. The camera is very controlable, i have NEVER found a part where it got 
 in the way, just use the D-pad, GS are awkward and didnt use it i dont think lol.
  
  Combat is OK, the repeatative swinging of the Wii mote is boring at times, so it makes you think 
 more about finding places to Speed Kill your enemies, which just look cool i think.
  
  Moving and jumping are simple, and chariot racing, tho not a strong point of the game is a GREAT 
 change of pace in the game, and i enjoyed all of them.
  
  OVERALL
  
  A great game, but with a few problems. Its definatly a game worth buying on the wii, as its the 
 first/one of the first platformers on the wii, and a darn good one at that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkside2501
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 22, 2007 1:14 am PT
Review:  My first impressions were that it was pretty bad, but it got better as it went along. It's just 
 the combat system that ruins it.
  
  The game has alot of the basics in a Prince of Persia game, mainly the acrobatic stunts which are 
 alot of fun, and swining the nunchuck to throw your chain as the Dark Prince improves upon that, 
 but the combat system feels unresponsive at times, repetitive and could use a complete redo.
  
  The graphics are pretty average to, but bearable, although the cutscenes look pretty good.
 
  
  The best bits are the boss fights which combine timing with real combat, although there is less 
 hack n' slash then fighting regular enemies, so it doesn't feel so bad.
  
  Overall it's a good game, but doesn't use the Wiimote to the best of it's ability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carnin
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 21, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Many person have play Two Thrones and they think Rival sword is the same gameplay and story mode 
 but one thing that misunderstand is that is on the Wii title. Almost every game that transfer or 
 copy into the Wii version got a graphic normal or low graphic who own the Ps3 and X-box 360. But 
 for me it the gameplay that matter and it pretty awsome. If u play Rival Sowrd on the psp and Two 
 Thrones u should know how the story started and the girl kind of dying at the beginin of the game. The 
 bad part about this game is the camera the camera is so sensitive that sometime u cant even see 
 where u going and sometime it really hard to go through them. The outcome is a very good game for 
 some kid who never try Prince of Persia series because most of it rated M-----Mature. This one is 
 for teen because blood became sand and the langue not that great . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7arek
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 15, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  So I just finished playing Prince of Persia: Rival Swords, and I was, wellpleasantly surprised. 
 I wasnt really expecting a lot, and I was right on most of its short comings (cough, graphics) , 
 but I was surprised at how well most of the controls worked out, they were pretty tight and responsive, 
 and throughout the whole game I really didnt have any complaints with the melee, and other sword/dagger 
 attacks. However, I did have a problem with the camera control. Let me explain, to move the camera 
 you have to tilt the wii-mote left/right, correct? Even though it works fine, and I didnt find 
 any fault in it, its annoying. Personally when Im playing with my wii my hand is almost always 
 tilt a bit to the left (hehe) , and right away I learned that was a no no. So after some adjustments 
 I was fine with it, but I found when I was fighting sometimes that I would accidentally tilt my 
 hand again and the camera would go all crazy. Aside from that I thought the controls were fine 
 (but they couldve been a little more creative with it) . Also, the graphics, the wii is supposed 
 to be next gen right? I know it cant compare with the 360 and PS3, but it should at least be able 
 to do better than gamecube and the rest of last gens consoles. But of course all the cool characters 
 are there, and the story was identical to Two Thrones, so I guess if youre a Prince of Persia 
 fan whos got a steady hand, and is anxious to experiment with more wii controls, this is the game 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmish82
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 14, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  After all of the hype around the Prince of Persia titles, and never having tried a recent one, 
 I picked up this one for the Wii. Unfortunately, this was one of those games that I had to force 
 myself to finish. It starts off fairly good and interesting but the game was just lacking a certain 
 something that makes a game great. The graphics were just OK, the controls that were assigned to 
 the Wii-Remote were just just OK and didn't do much to add to the gameplay experience, and the 
 enemies are all the same throughout the game. The puzzles were fairly interesting and kept me thinking 
 however. All in all, I was disappointed with my first entry into the Prince of Persia series and 
 was really hoping for something more. This was a down and dirty port over of an old title and really 
 felt like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eatinbrains
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Good story, good gameplay, average graphics (but what do you expect for the wii ) Worth buying. 
 Nothing spectacular. Thats all i got to say about that but i have to have at least one hundred 
 characters of text in order to submit this review. Cmon man do i really have to keep typing more 
 word to get up to one hundred characters? Yup, i guess i do . I dont see why it has to have one 
 hundred chahacters in order to submit the review, i kinda like the ideal of keeping things short 
 and sweet. Still not one hundred words..... one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine ,ten 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merch
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 1, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Rival swords or the two thrones. this goes out to all people that own a wii ,ps2,3 and pc i dunno 
 about 360 but if u own one of these systems go pick this game up one of the greatest action adventure 
 games out there. the motion controls are perfect for this game heck if they made all 3 in one box 
 i would love it on the wii running on wii engine of course. ps2,3 owners u got god of war with 
 puzzles to make u go looney this game will make ure collection more perfect. with a roman fighter 
 and persian prince in ur collection. pc only play this game with a controller the keyboard is meh.
 
  
  right back to the wii version the gameplay is amazing no doubt with motion makes this game work. 
 the game is a year and a half late but it still delivers on the wii. the graphics there is no diff 
 then on other systems sure the pc version will look the best since they have graphic cards but 
 the wii and other systems still launch this action puzzle adventurer and it hits us hard.
  the gameplay is the new motion contrls witch add to the awesomeness that already exists there.
 
  the sound is okay still choppy at some parts but ull get over it.
  
  over all if u liked god of war 1-2 and just purchased a wii and missed this game or for those of 
 u pc gamers that cant get god of war on ur pc this game is the one to check out for a buy worth 
 the cash pretty long game with the hard puzzles at moments but its the persian god or war actulaly 
 god of war was based of this games gameplay mechanics and style. ill go with hard but just right. t 
 on difficluty oh yeah if u check this game out u may have to paly the sands of time and warrior 
 with in first to understand it all in all its good. this is the last inthe triliogy.... i did good 
 for a blind guy lol my glasses broke. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noelveiga
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 29, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  First of all, whoa! Lots of fanboyism pro and con in the rest of the reviews. That's kind of surprising, 
 considering how balanced most reviews of the PSP version are. Oh, well...
  
  So I'm back with another review for this game in yet another platform. And I promise I'll never 
 talk about a PoP game here again. At least in a couple of months, ok?
  
  Well, by now you know most of it. It's the same game. It's a good game. Rating will depend on how 
 important it is for you that the game is one year old and 30 more expensive than the rest of the 
 versions. Me? I don't care much about the year old thing. You don't hear people saying Yeah, Terminator 
 2 is a good movie, but it's almost 15 years old, so it's not that good anymore .
  
  But then there's the more technical things regarding a Wii game. Yes, you knew it was coming: controls!
 
  
  And... they work.
  
  Really.
  
  Don't listen to the guys below going crazy about timing and a couple of tough to pull off moves. 
 Controls work. What I'm seeing with classic games ported to the Wii is that a lot of people don't 
 get over the gamepad when playing Wii games. The Wiimote isn't a gamepad, and it's about time people 
 start realizing it isn't. I've heard people saying they wish they could lock both halves of the 
 controller together on a gamepad. That's a sure sign that you're not getting into the way Wii games 
 are meant to be played. Prince of Persia is a game in which controls have to become second nature. 
 As with any Wii port, it takes a while here, but then it surpasses the classic scheme by a good 
 margin. It's all about having your hands by your sides instead of holding an object in front of 
 your chest or in your lap. It's different. You end up just thinking about what you want to happen 
 and it happens. It's fun and immersive and the reason why nobody cares that the PS3 has motion 
 sensing but it's the main draw of the Wii.
  
  Basically, swinging each hand controls a different weapon. That's it. Everything else is still 
 mapped to buttons. Still, combat gets frantic and, with some practice, you can pull off nice combos 
 more intuitively than on the other versions. Things get specially funny when you're using the dark 
 prince's chain, since there's no way around swinging the nunchuck over your head to get the chain 
 spinning. I had some problems chaining combos on the other versions, but this one works just fine.
 
  
  The camera is mapped to the D-pad, but you can also rotate it by tilting the wiimote sideways. 
 This is a hit and miss thing. When it works, it's wonderful. You can keep the camera focused with 
 a tiny movement. Sometimes, though, the camera will spin wildly and it'll take a moment to realize 
 it's because you've inadvertedly twisted your wrist. It can be turned on and off, though, so you 
 shouldn't have much of a problem.
  
  Even with only two PS2 buttons mapped to motion sensitive controls, the game feels different. In 
 this game, the dagger is used to stick to walls at times, besides combat, so you will find yourself 
 timing your remote swings to navigate the environment all the time. The one area where I suspect 
 people would have preferred buttons is quick kills. If you don't know, this game will sometimes 
 prompt you to initiate a preset kill animation during which you have to move the remote at specified 
 times. You've seen it before. The thing is, some people find timing swings harder than timing presses. 
 It's not. It's just different. Sure, precission is lower, but the game gives you a bit more time 
 than the rest of the versions. Make no mistake, it's still hard as hell by the end of the game. 
 Blame the remote if you want, but I've played other versions of PoP3 and... well, it's hard in 
 all of them.
  
  One area where motion controls are sorely underused, though, is the charriot races. I was hoping 
 to move the horses by pulling on the controller as if they were the reins, but no, all we get is 
 standard analog stick controls. If you haven't played this game before, you're going to have fun 
 with it. Granted, if you have there's no reason to buy this one, but there's no reason to buy more 
 than one copy of any game at all and we don't blame all the versions for that, right? What's more, 
 considering the number of new Wii releases the past few months, this is one of the better games 
 for the system and the best action adventure other than Zelda. A minor complaint to end the review: 
 What happened to widescreen support? The Wii menu supports it, but this game just ignores the setting 
 on your console and it won't even warn you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liliroots
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 24, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of PoP, you should get it just for the pleasure of the Wii-motes. Wii-motes is 
 the focus of the new installment. Using the Wii-mote is really fun but sometimes the controllers 
 doesn't respond on cue so that is a downside. The content itself is fun with lots of missions and 
 the nice acrobatics. The game's graphic is so so but the sound is good. Personally, I wouldn't 
 get this game since it seems the same as the previous PoP. Good - Wii-mote, gameplay is pretty 
 nice and still have the acrobatic taste , sound is nice. Bad - The controller is a bit slow, camera 
 views is bad, graphic (like all other Wii games) is bad, story is the same.
  
  Overall - 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snooktou
Rating: 4.9
Date: Apr 23, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  it makes me mad that they would take a great game and mess it up so bad with the controls. This 
 game was not mint to be played with the wii's crappy controller, its hard enough to play this on 
 the ps2! Great game just dont play it on the wii TRUST ME! Yea i have it for the wii but i didnt 
 pay for it! I made it all the way to the last boss and there is NO WAY! i repeat NO WAY! you can 
 be this game unless you have a real controller in your hands. There are sequences where u have 
 to flig the wiimote at the right time for an action to happen and the wiimote doesnt even respond 
 in time i found myself having to intisapate when the next action would accure to even hit the guy. 
 Way to go Ubisoft, you have prince of persia on a next gen system too bad it wasnt a real nex-gen 
 system like the 360 or ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ped101
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 21, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia: Rival Swords is a really cool game that has very few bad aspects to it. Awesome 
 gameplay, great story, good graphics, fun gameplay and i could go on. The only tihng that lets 
 it down is the camera that sometimes gives you an akwrd angle and the graphics could have been 
 worked on. Otherwise it is a very fun and addicting game that has been getting some bad reviews 
 because it is very similar to its prequel. Its a new game, to a new platform and they found the 
 exact balance between wii remote and numchuk movement, which could compete with some gaes that 
 got better scores. The story has enough depth to make one want to kill that annoying vizir, and 
 there are some cool new additions to the game. The graphics could use a little bit of detailing 
 but by no means lessens the experience of the game. My personal grade to the game is a 9.8 because 
 of the amazing gameplay and the FUN that one has while playing this awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bryan_409
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 20, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  the music was cool and other thing too i like everthing in the game altho i wish that they could 
 of made the boss a little more challengeing it ws kind of easy but i still like it a lot i cant 
 wait till i finish the game i hope you guys like it too so i like you you you you you you you you 
 you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you 
 you you youyou you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you yuou 
 you you you7 you youmyou uyou like like like like like like like like like like like like it it 
 it it it it it it tit ii bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye beyeyhe bfjfgjf bye. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario-Luige
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 20, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  AMAZING!!!!
  GAMEPLAY: Controls are cool and easy to get use to. Shake Wii-mote for right hand weapon. Shake 
 Nunchuck for left hand weapon. Use C for all time based moves. The only problem with it was the 
 slightest movement of the Wii-mote could mess up the stealth attacks. This really sucked when fighting 
 the last boss who needed stealth attacked a lot. 8 out of 10.
  GRAPHICS: Being a nintendo game this has surprisingly good graphics. Who says Wii can't do graphics. 
 9 out of 10.
  SOUND: The music matched the theme or what little music there was and it was neat hearing characters 
 in conversations while playing. You get the stoy line while playing making the game faster. 10 
 out of 10.
  VALUE: Even if you already have two thrones for PS2 and beat it this is still worth all the $50-$60. 
 10 out of 10.
  TILT: My favorite Wii game so far first being Super Paper Mario. Still it is a 10 out of 10.
 
  OVERALL: This is just a great and fun game. Though the last boss might p!$$ you off beyond belief. 
 It is a great game. 9.3 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THREESWORDSZOLO
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 17, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games of the year but sadly the camera controls are very quirky and can 
 really get in the way especially when you are in a big fight. The Dark Prince is an awesome fighter 
 but because he constantly loses health you are sometimes forced to deviate from your path to find 
 some sands of time. Thankfully the game designers took the liberty of spreading an almost unfair 
 amount of the sand everywhere so there is little or no urgency in completing your tasks. Your capability 
 to rewind time really makes the game a lot easier and takes the game from a hard/very hard to a 
 medium. The voice acting is superb and all in all, this is a fantastic and immersing game that 
 I would recommend to any action adventure fan and any newcomers to video gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natebayne
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 16, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  At first, I was not impressed TOO much with the game. I played on a little bit because I had just 
 enough intrigue to play. I found that, the further I went the more exciting the game became. At 
 first you are the prince who's acrobatic skills are top notch. The way he moves through the city 
 jumping from ledge to ledge. The sneak kills are awesome with the Wii-remote. The camera turning 
 at first bothered me, but once again I got used to it and I am glad I am not playing this game 
 any other way. After a litle venturing into the game you become infected with the sands of time 
 and turn into the Dark Prince. His acrobatic skills are even better. And the chain weapon he has 
 is great. As you go, after being infected, the two individuals inside of the princes body talk 
 to each other, making for an even more enthralling story line. Folks... this is coming from a die 
 hard devoted Zelda fan.... This game beats Twilight Princess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Judah6
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  This definitely should've hand a better score because this game was better than what gamespot gave 
 them.
  I say this because I never played the other version and I herd that this game was the same as the 
 Two Thrones and in that game the score was way better then what's this game had , and in this game 
 I know the controls make this game better than the other versions, In this game unlike using regular 
 controls you have to use the Nunchuk and the Wii remote to move and fight. With the Nunchuk you 
 have to move it down make a slash or use the Dark prince Chain to fight, with the Wii remote you 
 can use the dragger and the Sword and use quick kills with it. I even beleve this game is better 
 than the other versions because of the controls but the only thing I didn't like was when they 
 water down the blood but other than that is game is the **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrMC7992
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 8, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Yes, this game looks surprisingly familiar, it's not deja vu, even with the new name this game 
 is a censored Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones. The game is pretty damn good on the Wii and the 
 motion controls, while there aren't many, are almost flawless. I'll break this off into categories...
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  If you have played a Prince of Persia game before you know you are going to get your fair share 
 of acrobatics. 75% of the game is solving puzzles on how to get places; do you need to run across 
 that wall then jump to that ledge? or do you need to run on that wall and stick your dagger in 
 it? It really doesn't matter because you control time. If you mess up just a simple hold of the 
 C button will reverse time to let you try again. Be careful though, you might run out of your sand 
 meter and not be able to do it. The combat is okay, never really liked the combat in the Prince 
 of Persia series but with the motion sensing it adds a bit of flavor to the mix. Swing with the 
 wiimote and the Prince swings with his dagger. Swing with the nunchuck and the Prince swings with 
 his other weapon of if you have none he will grab the enemy. There are many combos but mostly you 
 will see yourself swinging randomly or just jumping off the enemy's back and slashing them (cheap 
 but effective) . What ever, the combat doesn't play the biggest role. Graphics:
  
  The graphics are really pretty good. With the story cut scenes coming every once in a while. There's 
 not much more to say, they are not the best, but definitely better than some wii games.
  
  Sound:
  
  There is some really good music in this game. Also, the voice acting is great.
 
  
  Value:
  
  Heh, this is your call. You CAN get the gamecube version of the game for $20. I'd say the extra 
 features on this game might be worth that extra 30. If you have the game on another system I see 
 no point of buying this version, I do see a point on renting it if you really want to play it though.
 
  
  All Together:
  
  A great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 5.7
Date: Apr 8, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  I would have to say that thus far this console cycle I have been disapointed with most of the games 
 I have played for the Wii. Unfortunately Ubi Soft, trying to be the Wii's biggest 3rd party supporter 
 has done a poor job with it's games and Prince of Persia Rival Swords is no different.
  
  I did play the original Prince of Persia games back when they were 2-D and they were ok. I also 
 played all the Prince of Persia games when they became 3-D and they lost some thing so most of 
 them I felt were pretty eh. With the new control scheme of the Wii I was excited to see how Prince 
 of Persia would handle. Perhaps they would get it right, and alas they didn't. The graphics are 
 ok, infact I think the earlier verisons of Prince of Persia on the GCN and the PS2 had better graphics. 
 They are pixilated and the lighting and shadowing is non existant. After seeing what Twilight Princess 
 and God of War can do with the prior graphic engines I was disapointed. The music is pretty cool 
 though and the sounds and theme fit the game. You do feel like if you closed your eyes and just 
 listen to the music and sounds you would be in Persia. The Wii's main focus is to bring the player 
 into the game more by having emersive controls. Persia falls flat on it's face with that. Most 
 of the jumping (which is what Persia is known for) is used with buttons, which while would be easier 
 the swinging the Wii mote around (see SSX Blur for that situation) it doesn't change the face of 
 this game. Futhermore the combat is dull, and you end up doing the same exact movments over and 
 over and over again. The game is very difficult so if you are looking for instant gratification 
 just walk away from this one. I did and I'm glad I only rented it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savagedesire
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 7, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  This game, I believe, was a great idea gone wrong somewhere along the line. This game had the potential 
 to be a big hit on the Wii but failed to deliver. The graphics alone are enough to upset any gamer 
 with todays technology. This game does have a few redeeming qualities for instance the controls 
 are quite responsive and in some cases forgiving as far as he platforming goes. The different finishing 
 moves and attacks you have the prince perform are exciting and different nearly every time. The 
 platform jumps and basic swinging around the level are very smooth and fluid as far as the controls 
 are concerned. Also the level designs are intricate and are changed frequently which gives the 
 impression of being somewhere new every level. These; however, do not make up for the poorly supported 
 storyline and early gamecube late N64 graphics and sound quality. If you are following the prince 
 in his journey then this game may be for you. As for the rest of us, this game is a possible rent. 
 Trust me you will have ample time to beat it if your local rental store gives you more then 5 hours 
 on your rent. Too pricey for this kind of quality and with games being $50 you might just wanna 
 hold out for super mario galaxy if you're waiting for a good platformer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeak123
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 6, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  the good - great controls and sound. This game on the wii is superb because of the game play but 
 the graphics is a different story.
  
  the bad - the graphics were terrible, I've seen gamecube games with better graphics I just got 
 this game today and have been playing it since, I've been playing for hours and I still feel like 
 I haven't even breached the story line because their is so much to learn. Though the game play 
 is great and inventive the graphics stink and need a lot of work. Along with the game play the 
 sound is good too, it makes you feel like your actually in the game. I honestly have never played 
 any of the other Prince of Persia games but I don't think that it really matters with this game, 
 so if you haven't played any of the other Persia games then don't worry you'll still like this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspfreak1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia is so sweet on the Wii. When you do your stealth kills its so realistic and sweet. 
 They also added more kick ass things like sliding down spaces and down curtains. fighting is my 
 favorite thing you have like six different combos and can fight four guys at a time. Allot of times 
 you feel like your in hell but its so cool. Also when you do your stealth kills YOU stab the **** 
 out of them. About a quarter through the game there is your dark side throne. A chain busting **** 
 who whips his chain at you. One of the bad things is when you are your dark side and always have 
 to keep your health up by killing things. I would give this a 9.5. On the wii this kicks ass. Buy 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zasx9
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 6, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  Most will remember the two thrones from last year. This game is exactly the same but with a very 
 different way to play. Well here it is the good and the bad. The Good: Unexpected managble controls, 
 same great game as last year with a twist of the wii, great weapons, speed kills were fun to do 
 and watch, great cut scenes, the dark prince was fun to be and use his cool powers, awesome storyline 
 picking up were Warrior Within ended, remember Farah from Sands of time , she returns to help out.
 
  
  The Bad: Combos were a little difficult to pull off, Dark Prince dies over time which I thought 
 was dumb because you are rushed constantly, the prince bleeds but the enemys bleed sand which is 
 pretty stupid since two thrones and warrior within have the goriest games out there, not many chariot 
 races.
  
  Well with a couple flaws this game still manages to hold up pretty well. Though I still want to 
 find out how the psp version is. Anyway if you have a Wii and have not beaten Two thrones yet then 
 buy this game for either psp or wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingandCitizens
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 6, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazing. One of the best games ever played with one of the best stories 
 ever written. The gameplay is just as great as it was with ps2 and maybe even a little better with 
 the wii controls. Not too much is different with the exception of a little motion sensing and stuff 
 like that. But, I honestly don't care if it's different. I played The Two Thrones 5 times at least 
 and I'm already starting Rival Swords for the second time on wii. This game is great.
  
  The graphics are better than they were on PS2, which were some of the best on that console. I love 
 the graphics and whoever says that they are bad and make the game unplayable are completely wrong. 
 The environments and the prince were both done flawlessly with one of the best looking games on 
 the wii yet.
  
  Sound is 8 out of 10 because I realized how good the voice acting is for this game. They couldn't 
 have done it any better. The music for the game is suitable for it and I couldn't ask for much 
 more.
  
  This game deserves to be part of your collection. ESPECIALLY if you haven't played The Two Thrones 
 this will be a revolutionary experience for you. Hopefully if this is successful, then Ubisoft 
 will consider a new Prince of Persia. Maybe exclusive. You will definitely play this game more 
 than once. It is the kind of game that should stay in your collection for a long time. I still 
 have all my Prince of Persia games still from Prince of Persia 3D for the computer. I guarantee 
 that you will enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L_E_V
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 6, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  I love this game. I recommend this game to any Prince of Persia fan. If you're not a fan, playing 
 this game will make one. The use of controls really makes the game fun. Speed kills must be well 
 timed when using the wii-mote. The 1st level tutorial, is all you need to understand and comprehend 
 the game. The story-line is better than I expected. The use of recall must be well timed, and you 
 must use it at the right moment, before its too late. Using Dark Prince has its pros and cons. 
 while dark Prince you constantly lose life, and must find sand, whether by killing enemies or breaking 
 items, to gain back the life. While this is a con, he gains back life by finding sand, which is 
 great, unlike Prince who can only gain life by drinking water. Also dark prince has a chain. While 
 it can attack many enemies at once, you have the chain and blade. Picking up your opponents weapons 
 is not an option. I frankly dont care, I like the chain better. Overall the great game is great. 
 It is certainly worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sadlersongs
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 5, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of the POP trilogy so buying it for the Wii was a given. The controls are very natural. 
 In the gamecube version you'd press B for the primary weapon and Y for the secondary. With the 
 Wii, you strike with the Wii Remote for the primary, and the nunchuck for the secondary. So for 
 all of you that knew all of those cool-ass combos, you can still easily use them by waving the 
 remotes in the same order as you would the button combos.
  
  Also compared to the gamecube version, the graphics are a little better too. They are not as choppy. 
 The only bad thing about this game is that there are no more decapitations and cutting bodies in 
 half. And instead of blood, you see this greenish-brown sand that comes out of the enemies. That's 
 half the fun of POP!
  
  Also saving is a lot quicker on the Wii too. But through some glitch, when it's done saving it 
 says Save Complete and then you press A to continue. Then it says Save Complete again! It's hard 
 to believe that someone at UbiSoft overlooked that.
  
  There are improvements in the sound and movies too. None of the same old glitches that you might 
 have experienced in the GameCube version.
  
  Overall, it's a great game and the controls are pretty damn cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grandia15
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 5, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  I have played the two thrones plus all the entire prince of persia trilogy, rival swords did disappoint 
 me a little bit due to the fact that it is just exactly the same as the two thrones with just a 
 different name and on a different console, but the fact that u wield your sword as your wiimote 
 in your right hand and your secondary sword as your nunchuck in your left hand makes this game 
 soo much more better. I mean this game is played great as a Wii game. The controls arent difficult 
 and is quite straight forward. The graphics is still not up to Wii standards yet, but its not as 
 bad as u'd think, probably like playing an xbox game. If u havent played any prince of persia game 
 then hire it first, but if u have played the previous prince of persia games then u definitely 
 should pick this one up, this is ur only chance to literally play as the prince..... its soo cool. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majorasmask22
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 5, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  Prince of persia rival swords is an incredible game with a great story line. I went to the store 
 yesterday and got this game, i have spent about 11 hours on the game so far and i barely broke 
 the main story line, so i'll get a LOT of play time out of this game. So far where i am in the 
 game the story line is you are the prince of persia and a girl you were practily in love with has 
 been killed OR kidnapped (i still havent got to the part where the tell you if she she is alive 
 or not) , so prince is out to save her. If you were even thinking about getting this game you would 
 probabily know that prince has a dake side called dark prince that weilds a daggertail wip. When 
 dark prince is touched by water he turs back into prince.
  The only down side to Prince of persia rival swords is the GAMEPLAY graphics, they are O. K. but 
 not at all next gen, its like a gamecube game IN GRAPHICS. Don't let the graphics of this game 
 make you think about not getting it, but the Wii Remote and Nunchuck make it revolutionary. Take 
 my word for it this game is WORTH GETTING!
  
  9.7 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
