-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pro Evolution Soccer 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/pes2008/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Novel control system that works well.
 Same great Pro Evolution Soccer game engine.
 Online mode is fast and lag-free.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Difficult to control in defence.
 Not enough game modes.
 Lack of official teams.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 17, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.3, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 612 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date: Mar 18, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Thanks to a new control system and good online play, Pro Evolution Soccer on the Wii is a unique 
 and enjoyable experience. 

  While Pro Evolution Soccer 2008 was a disappointment on nearly every other platform, the Wii version 
 offers a genuinely new take on the series. Developed by a completely different team within Konami, 
 Pro Evolution Soccer 2008 takes the game's solid heritage and adds a control system specifically 
 designed for the Wii Remote and Nunchuk. The online mode is generally excellent, as well as lag-free, 
 and the game-finding system works well. It's still a little too short on game modes and unlockable 
 extras, but as a bold first appearance on the Wii, it's an innovative new game that football fans 
 should definitely check out.  

           Pro Evolution Soccer 2008 on the Wii is a very different proposition from every other 
 version of the game.      

  PES 2008 starts with a lengthy but necessary tutorial. Even if you're familiar with the series, 
 this game is a fundamentally different experience on the Wii, and while purists may baulk at the 
 prospect of controlling players with a cursor, it's actually a very natural way to play. You use 
 the Wii Remote to point at the screen and draw out the moves you want to make, whether it's a run 
 in a certain direction or a pass to another player. You can still move your players using the Nunchuk's 
 analogue stick, but you have to pass by aiming the cursor and pressing the B button. Likewise, 
 if you want your player to make a run, you point the cursor in the direction you want him to go 
 and press the A button. These are just the basics, however, and you can move off-the-ball players 
 by tapping the A button twice, perform feints by swinging the Nunchuk, or make chip shots by swiping 
 the Wii Remote. At first, it feels like you're performing a complex juggling act of button combos 
 and controller movements, but it's a well-designed system that allows you to perform all the same 
 moves that you're used to in previous games.  

  The most immediate thing you'll notice is how much the new controls change the flow of the game, 
 making it feel more fluid and lifelike than before. That said, dealing with all the onscreen action 
 can sometimes be a bit overwhelming, and we couldn't help but make the occasional passing error 
 as a result. Thankfully, the AI-controlled players are adaptive and will immediately come to collect 
 a loose ball, but processing all the information you need can be a serious challenge until you've 
 mastered the game. The biggest problem, though, is that it's very difficult to make effective tackles 
 using the Wii Remote, and you're never really in control when playing in defence. You can pressure 
 the opposing player by holding the A button or lunge in with a sliding tackle by holding down the 
 Z button and swinging the Nunchuk. However, drawing out running paths at the same time means that 
 neither option is particularly accurate, and you'll frequently mistime tackles or just fumble them 
 completely.  

  Local matches can only feature one or two players. Although it's a shame that there isn't four-player 
 support, the number of cursors and lines that would entail onscreen action would probably have 
 resulted in a very confusing game. There are also Cup and League modes; you can replicate your 
 favourite competitions or leagues using both domestic and international teams. Like the DS version, 
 PES 2008 on the Wii ditches the series' much-loved Master League mode for something quite different, 
 and in this case, it's the strangely titled Champions Road. In addition to the normal challenge 
 of winning matches as you guide your team through, this mode offers challenges, such as making 
 a certain number of passes or scoring a minimum number of goals during games. It's a fun game mode, 
 but we can't help but yearn for something a little less contrived and more in-depth.  

           A lengthy tutorial session helps you get to grips with the game's unique control system. 

  Although the Wii's Internet service has come under fire in the past, it proves to be the best platform 
 yet for playing Pro Evo online. While it was sometimes difficult to find other people to play, 
 once we found an opponent, the action held up incredibly well, with practically no lag or slowdown 
 and an excellent online interface. You can either play with friends whose codes you've registered 
 or with other random players looking for a game, and you can choose to sort players by their connection 
 strength or availability. While it is a fairly simple online service -- with support for only two 
 players per game and a lack of voice communications or online rankings -- it's nonetheless a joy 
 to play. When you compare that to the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 versions of Pro Evo, it's nothing 
 short of a miracle.  

  Presentation has never been a strong point of the series, but the Wii version makes an acceptable 
 showing in this department. The menu system is laid out logically, and it's easy to navigate your 
 way through all the information on offer, whilst the matches themselves prove pleasing to the eye. 
 That said, the menu music is still generic and repetitive. The commentary from Peter Brackley and 
 Mark Lawrenson also offers little insight into the action. The graphics are a little bit better 
 than the PlayStation 2 version of the game, particularly when running in 480p, and the same animation 
 system endows players with a real sense of physicality. Team licensing is still a problem though, 
 with the majority of the English league boasting such titles as London FC, Man Red, and Teeside. 
 The players themselves are fairly up-to-date and feature the correct names however; so, correcting 
 these issues is relatively easy.  

  Konami took a risk with the Wii version of Pro Evolution Soccer 2008, and it's one that has paid 
 off. It's a completely different experience from every other version of the game because the control 
 system offers a more flowing game of football and one that's incredibly rewarding once it's mastered. 
 While there are still some teething problems -- most notably in defensive control -- moving players 
 and making passes around the pitch is incredibly natural using the Wii Remote. We're also pleased 
 at how well it plays online, so much so that we'd recommend the online mode above all other modes 
 offered in the game. The lack of a Master League mode is disappointing, but Pro Evolution Soccer 
 2008 offers a novel approach to playing football that works well.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (27 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fraz1776
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 10:05 am PT
Review:  Since the beginning of time, football games have all been played pretty much the same way save 
 perhaps a few tweaks here and there, but it's safe to say Konami has given the pot a good old shake-up 
 here.
  
  Normally you would control one player at a time. None of that "old school" mentality here in Pro 
 Evo Wii, you can pretty much control every player's movement and make them do whatever the hell 
 you want: running into space, onto through-balls or drawing opposition defenders out of their box 
 are just some of the moves you can pull off.
  
  Although there are some very in-depth controls, they start off easily enough. To run you just "grab" 
 your player with the Wiimote and drag him where you want to go - the further away your reticule 
 is the faster he will run. To pass you just point at any of your players and press A, the game 
 automatically chooses the type of pass.
  
  One of the few bad points of Pro Evo is when you are defending, tackling for the most part is just 
 a case of pointing at the player you want to tackle and pressing A, or shaking the nunchuk at the 
 right time to slide tackle, which sounds easy enough but it just doesn't feel that you are in full 
 control of your players as you do when attacking.
  
  In this iteration of the game Konami has decided to leave out the Master League and instead add 
 a new feature called Champions Road, which sees you either make up your own team or play as your 
 favorite team (albeit with fake players) . You play through mini-leagues around Europe against lower 
 quality teams first of all as you'd expect, working your way up to the big guns of European football. 
 Along the way you'll also take at least one player from each team you beat to create your own "super-team".
 
  
  The graphics are another sticking point. While by no means is this a terrible looking game, it's 
 just that Konami have pretty much used the graphics engine for the PS2 version. You feel that since 
 they put all that effort into the controls, they could have tarted up the graphics a bit as well.
 
  
  Pro Evo Wii includes two player local and online play, which is fun for the most part but online 
 wise I found it difficult to find an opponent with a decent enough connection. A lot of the games 
 were also prone to a bit of lag.
  
  With my minor reservations aside, overall Pro Evo Wii is a brilliant game which plays more like 
 an RTS control-wise than any traditional football game and should be right up on any Wii owners 
 list whether you're a football fan or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vitorbrasil2311
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 5:55 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Well, the graphics are not so good like FIFA, but It's so so. 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is very good and make a good use of the wiimote by using the point and play. 
 With that you can move all player in the screen and select exactily where you want to pass the 
 ball or run.
  
  Games modes: In the game you can play a friendly or participate of a championship or a league. 
 But the master league of the version of the ps2 is not here. Instead we have the champions road, 
 and It's not so good. This mode give a team with konami's players and you can participate of tournaments, 
 learn new tricks and make missions. With you complet the mission you win something in the champions 
 road (like be able to earn beter players) or in the game (like play with miis) . To earn player you 
 have only to choose one card faced down and you earn a player, but to earn better player complet 
 the missions.
  
  Controls: To pass the ball, point at the screen for the player you want or for a place in the field 
 and the most close player run for It.
  To kick the ball or isolate the ball swing the nunchuk. To run point to the screen ad the playr 
 will run for that place. To move your player slowly, use the nunchuk. And that's the basic controls.
 
  
  Conclusion: The game has a good mechanics, but dont have good graphics and game modes, what makes 
 the game bory if you aren't playing whit friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: david1233
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2008 5:19 am PT
Review:  Let's face it. Wii and Football don't really go together do they???
  
  I mean how exactly are you meant to give the best football games around motion controls?
  
 
  Take FIFA for example. Probably the best football series around. But when they go to Make FIFA 
 08 on Wii they muck it up completely.
  
  But Konami has acted smarter than EA. They've held PES 2008 on Wii back a few months and when it 
 comes out... It rocks.
  
  This latest entry in the PES franchise proves that football can work on the Wii.
  
  The best 
 part of this game is online play. You can play against anyone from around the world and the game's 
 online mode is probably one of the best on Wii. But apart from online there's really no depth.
 
  
  There's free match where you can pick two teams and play a friendly. There's league mode (where 
 you play as a european team and do a season with them.
  
  There's also cup mode (where you pick a cup to play) and Champions Road. Champions Road is suppost 
 to replace Master League by having you play as a rookie team. As your team you must try and win 
 cups and become the best team in the world. Also, when you beat a team you can take one of their 
 players.
  Sound familiar? It's a rip-off of Rule the Street mode in FIFA street. But worse.
  
  Overall, 
 PES 2008 is a pretty good game but only get it if you want a Wii PES game right now. If not just 
 wait until FIFA 09 or PES 2009 are released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ganga_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 2:46 am PT
Review:  I have to admit I didn't trust all the positive reviews about PES 2008 last year. I thought a soccer 
 videogame has to be played with a gamepad, because that is the ultimate way of control. As I saw 
 that PES 2008 can be picked up for a budget price now, I made the deal because I've always been 
 a fan of the series.
  
  And what can I say? PES 2008 is amazing. The way it is played is easy to learn but hard to master. 
 It's almost like you "planned" your goals on a board. If you have the ball the controls are really 
 great, unfortunately the defensive feels a little bit too much indirect. You have to anticipate 
 what your enemy is doing and that's not always easy.
  
  The graphics surprised me. They're better than the graphics of the pc version from PES 6, and for 
 a Wii game they're superior.
  
  I didn't know about the Champions Road mode before, but I don't want to miss it anymore. It is 
 highly motivating to compete against all the teams, especially because you earn players from the 
 defeated teams. Furthermore your players earn experience and get better. You can really identify 
 yourself with your team. The other modes are quite classic and nothing special. Sadly you cant 
 play together in one team vs. the AI, something I always enjoyed. 
  
  Last but not least I have to say that it is very funny to play with your Miis against somebody 
 else with their Miis
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabz_95
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  Pro Evolution Soccer 2008. Its just another downgraded multi-plat version of the PS3 and 360 versions 
 right?
  Worse graphics, tacked on waggle controls and terrible online play?
  No, this time a developer has put effort into a Wii multi-plat game and has come up trumps. 
 
  First of all when you start the game you are immediately put into a basic tutorial mode which 
 is needed if you're going to get used to the game. Once this is completed you will be taken to 
 the main menu where there is the standard Match, League, Cup etc and an advanced tutorial mode 
 if you want to become an expert.
  The reason this game is amazing is because of the control scheme, you point and drag your player 
 towards the direction you want them to run (you can also use the analogue stick) and if you point 
 at another player and press B you will pass to them. Depending on how far the player is and if 
 there are any players blocking the path depends on wether your player does a high pass or a low 
 pass. This is where the controls work well, while you are running you can also drag other players 
 into a better position and once they are there you can pass to them. You have the power to control 
 every player on the pitch at the same time whereas in other versions you only control them one 
 at a time. You can create pinpoint passes and it is really easy to play through balls and switch 
 the ball to the other end of the pitch. To shoot you flick the nunchuk, the harder you flick it 
 the stronger the shot is. If you flick the wii remote instead of the nunchuk you will do a lob 
 shot instead of a normal one.
  While you're attacking in the game if you flick the nunchuk while holding Z your player will do 
 a random skill, be it a step over a turn on the ball (I think its called a maradonna spin? ) or 
 just faking a shot and going in the other direction. This is great for getting past players and 
 goalies.
  The attacking controls are amazing in the game but how do the defensive controls hold up?
  Well 
 the main way to tackle a player is to point at them and tap a and your player will run at them. 
 The more times you tap A on that player the more players will run at them. The tackling may be 
 the worst aspect of the controls to advanced players as it limits your freedom to how you want 
 to tackle the player but to new players it makes it very easy for them to tackle players so its 
 a minus and a plus. You can also drag your players and if they run into another player they will 
 usually tackle the player, although its not as affective as just tapping on your opponent. You 
 may think that the defensive controls are too simple but there are some advanced options like when 
 you tap on a player and run up to them to tackle them if you hold Z and flick the nunchuk you will 
 go in for a slide tackle. Note that unless timed perfectly you will probably hack down your opponent. 
 If you flick the wii remote you will trigger the offside trap.
  Although the defensive controls aren't as good as the attacking controls they're still pretty great.
 
  The graphics in the game are obviously a downgrade from the PS3/360 graphics but they aren't too 
 bad and are a lot better than the PS2 version as expected. The graphics are downgraded but does 
 not suffer from the lag and slow downs that the PS3/360 versions have.
  Unfortunately the game doesn't have the great master league mode which marks it down but it does 
 have another mode called champions road. Although it is not as good as master league it is very 
 fun and addictive but I hope there is a proper master league mode in the next game.
  The online mode in the game can be great and can be plain awful. This depends on your opponents 
 connection. Although the majority of games run very smoothly as most people have a stable internet 
 connection, some people you face will have a horrible connection and it will be a lot slower. You 
 may think that this is the case with all games but in Pro Evo Wii, for some reason when there is 
 a bad connection it lags a hell of a lot more than other online games.
  Overall the game is brilliant, there is a lot of room for improvement with defensive controls and 
 the lack of master league but is a brilliant start for the first pro evo on the wii. / 
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Pov
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 3:26 am PT
Review:  I've never been a fan of watching football. I don't follow the teams. I don't make sure I watch 
 all the major games. I'm not even a football games fan. But Pro Evolution on the Wii is in a leauge 
 of its own.
  
  In case you havn't noticed by now, the whole big thing about PES 08 on the Wii is the control scheme. 
 The game incorporates a control scheme that wold be impossible on any other system. Basically, 
 by use of a click and drag system, you can control any player on the screen. And yes it does sound 
 complicated, but it really isn't. Once you get used to it, it is the most natural thing. Of course 
 the real beauty of the controls is the fact that it is simple to learn, but difficult to master.
 
  
  The cutscenes in the game are also brilliant. It adds a whole new depth of realism with opening 
 sequences and surprisingly rewarding goal celebrations. (Although somtimes disturbingly gay)
  
  The graphics are frankly the best that I've seen in any third party wii game. The faces of 
 the players look real, and express real emotion.
  
  The sound is all that you can expect from a football game. That chanting of the crowd. And the 
 crowd respond appropriatly towards what is going on in the game. There is also the commentary, 
 which at times seems quite insightful. Although of course the commentary does get a bit repetitive. 
 But I'm going to be quite positive about the commentary, not because of whether it gets repetitive 
 or not, but because of how long it takes before it gets repetitive.
  
  To finish I must say that I've never jumped out of my seat at a goal before. But I have now!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CraZySeahorSe
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  PES 2008 has a fantastic playing experience. Although hard to get a hold of at first, the game 
 all comes together very well as you continue to pick up the game. The deeper and more complicated 
 you get into the controls, the better and more intense the game becomes. Online play is also fantastic. 
 The player has the choice of a friend list or just simply challenging a stranger to a good game 
 of futbol! No lag either! Give the controls a chance and they will not let you down.
  Graphics
  All visuals in this game are fairly Wii-average except for character face details. 
 The details are actually impressive for the Wii's weak graphic performances so far.
  Sound
  Music is good, commentating is great, but the crowd is a little weak.
  Value
  With such good 
 online play, PES 2008 should keep you playing for quite awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umd1998
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Konami's "Pro Evolution Soccer," previously known as "Winning Eleven," has always been a solid 
 if underrated competitor to EA Sports' "FIFA" series. 
  
  But "PES 2008" for the Wii surpasses "FIFA"  and possibly every other soccer video game ever made. 
 It integrates the Wii's motion controls perfectly and must be played to be believed. You literally 
 draw up plays on the field by using the Wiimote to drag lines to where you want the ball and your 
 players to go. And you shake the nunchuk to kick the ball, attempt a header on a corner kick or 
 battle midair for the ball. 
  
  The career modes are deep and lengthy. One, the Champions Cup, allows you to start with a club 
 team and work up to playing in the International Cup (the game's name for the World Cup) . 
  
  Along the way, you'll be provided tutorials with more and more advanced gameplay methods. 
 
  
  Also, you get to take up to three of your defeated opponents' best players depending on your margin 
 of victory. Your players also gain and improve abilities the more they play, and you can decide 
 what attributes to enhance. 
  
  The online matches can be a little laggy and the long wait to find opponents hints that not many 
 people have the game or play it online. But overall, online is well done, fun and extremely competitive. 
 
  
  The graphics are surprisingly crisp and the players (whose real names and likenesses are included) 
 are rendered nicely and have excellent animated movements.
  
  One of the few drawbacks is the lack of two-player co-op play on the same team. 
  
  But that's 
 a small gripe about what might be the most-revolutionary soccer video game ever created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockafella888
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely brilliant excelling in nearly every aspect of the game. I'm going to start 
 off with gameplay. While on the offensive, controls are great. It's not as complicated as it looks 
 in those demo-commercials since you really only HAVE to control the player with the ball and the 
 pass receiver if there is one. Controlling any other player is optional and absolutely unnecessary 
 if you don't want to. Shooting necessitates a waggle of the nunchuk and passing is as simple as 
 Point + B. Now on defense it's another story and controls are not as fun since there really is 
 not much control. You click on an opponent player to mark or lightly tackle him and when you are 
 near him you have the option of slide tackling by holding Z and waggling the nunchuk. Graphics 
 are not too bad although I encountered an ingame bug that happens quite often where a line at the 
 bottom of the field gets blurry but once again graphics are acceptable or even good. The presentation 
 is a bit weak, introduction video is amusing but the main menu is neither stylish nor any special 
 although that must be blamed on the number of game modes which is quite low which is the only weak 
 point since the game becomes quite boring but fortunately Champions Road mode has so many tournaments 
 it keeps you going for quite a while. There are all the main leagues except the Premiership of 
 which only some teams are included with most of them unofficial. To conclude this is a fabulous 
 game, great gameplay (except the slightly annoying defense) , good graphics and acceptable presentation 
 but that doesn't really matter thankfully since they got all the important stuff right. Hopefully 
 Konami will be handed the rights to create a 2010 World Cup game for Wii, and I wish they had for 
 Euro 2008. Oh and I forgot to mention multiplayer is great fun and I enjoyed played with my own 
 Mii team! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingfisher_
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 11, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  The game's controls don't work as hoped. There is an obvious flaw that you have to dribble by holding 
 down A. You cannot change the control scheme which is odd as you can even do it in other Pro Evo 
 games. You can't even play with a Gamecube controller!
  The graphics are terrible and it does not feel like you are playing football. Each player could 
 of been the same for all i know!
  Practice makes perfect, but when playing a videogame i feel i want to just have fun, not set myself 
 a personal goal. Getting to stage where this game would be fun is certainly an achievement but 
 it is not the kind of one i would want. If i was going to put that much effort into a videogame 
 about football insted i would just play real football.
  All i can say is that the game is a complete and utter letdown and is a failed attempt at a new 
 control scheme. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Watermelon4372
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 2, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  I love PES. I think they make the best and most innovative football (soccer) games anywhere on 
 the market. This game was innovative, however, due to the fact that it's SO STRIPPED DOWN, there's 
 no way I could ever give it more than a 6. The features that made other PES games so popular were 
 no where to be seen in this version for the Wii. There is no create-a-player, there is no make-a-team, 
 there is no player stat editing, there is no pick-a-ref where you can pick the referee you want 
 (not too important but still nice) , it's missing a lot of game modes like Master mode, you CANNOT 
 CHANGE THE CONTROLS, you CANNOT CHANGE THE CAMERA. These are key features for me. Oh and it only 
 has like 6 leagues with only 1 or 2 with licensed teams. England only has 2 licensed teams in the 
 whole league but la liga is complete. OMG YOU CAN'T TRADE PLAYERS. That's what upset me the most.
 
  
  However, the controls are innovative and fun, and are probably the only thing I like about this 
 game sadly. However, they're not enough to justify $40.00 in my opinion. I really want to return 
 this game but I can't which is BS. 
  
  I wouldn't recommend this to a friend because of the incredible lack of features, but if you want 
 to play a game once or twice cuz it's cool, go for it. Try it at a friends house or buy it used 
 from gamestop or ebgames so you can return it in a week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aikimagicjedi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  I have played a lot of soccer video games for the last 15 years and I feel confident on saying 
 that this game is a big step on soccer / futbol / football games in the future to come.
  Before buying it I read a few articles, most of them mentioned how great the game worked with the 
 remote control, how good the dragging system performed to do runs and passes. I read also the ones 
 that complaint about how difficult the defense has turned on this PES Wii version. After being 
 a big fan on the winning eleven for so many years I decided to get this PES 2008.
  After playing it for 10 minutes I was about to get rid of it. Just a few minutes later I found 
 the karma on the game! The game is awesome; I immediately called my friend that's still playing 
 the winning 11 on ps2 to tell him about it. But he didn't believe till he played it by himself. 
 
  The way you manage each player is quite radical, you send 2 players to cover one attacking player, 
 while you assign man to man defense on one of the guys waiting to receive a pass. 
  I used to hate so much when you passed the ball to an empty space and no one would run for the 
 ball, well those days are over! Now they might run not fast enough because they are tired but they'll 
 do what u want!
  The difference with this PES 2008 is that you have to think faster and act as quick as possible 
 since you have to manage more on the team.
  The Champions road mode is very interesting, you start building your team and you get randomly 
 a player from the teams you played against, that means you most likely won't end up with Henry, 
 Cristiano Ronaldo and Messi on the same team and you'll have to find the way to work it out with 
 that starless team of yours.
  
  A few things bother me though:
  
  I haven't found the way to do tricks, not even if you are playing with Ronaldihno! 
  The graphics, 
 even though, WE are limited because of the WII; it feels like we are stucked with the same graphics 
 for 3 years already.
  Repetitive comments, which you are used to because it's always the same thing on every annual version, 
 but you always hope for a improvement. 
  Head passes are almost always inaccurate!
  You have NO control when doing the free kicks, not the direction not the power you want to infringe 
 on the kick.
  Then, you are limited to the most important few leagues in the world. Meaning that If you are from 
 Colombia, Bolivia, Japan or South Africa you can't play the league with your own local team.
  If you play versus mode with a friend sitting next to you, all the pointers and arrows on the screen 
 may drive you nuts and give you a headache! - And I am the kind of person who can play first person 
 shooters for hours.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WastedPotential
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 18, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  I bought PES 2008 for the Wii off of the strength of reviews I saw here and on X-Play. I must admit 
 that I was really glad that it came with a tutorial. Ordinarily I roll my eyes and try to skip 
 through those things, but I found myself actually going back and reusing it. The controls do take 
 some getting used to. As a veteran of FIFA and PS2 soccer games, I initially did not feel like 
 I had as much control over the players. However, once you learn the Wii controls, it begins to 
 make a lot of sense. My only beef with the controls is that I still don't feel as though I have 
 any real control over actual shooting on the goal. I have only been playing for a week, though, 
 so this may change as I get further into it.
  
  As far as the graphics go, I was pleased with what the Wii is able to do. The players look clean, 
 especially during the instant replays (which I like) , and there doesn't seem to be any lag, though 
 I have yet to try the online portion of the game.
  
  The team selection and game modes are deep enough for your casual fan, but some may be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carmonavictor
Rating: 9
Date: May 15, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  When I saw this game on stores I was worried about the controls because is the essential of the 
 game that marks the difference between fifa. 
  
  And I am pro evolution fan I have played every game since winning eleven 6 and when I realized 
 the developers just blow up the traditional controls and create a new interactive way to play a 
 soccer game I was shocked!!!!. 
  
  But this new way play works!!! and very well you can control every player on the field in real 
 time. You will never miss pass and make a free run. 
  if you see a open space in the field just select a player to that area and take advantage to score. 
 Its weakness show up on the defense controls but in general is great game is all about strategy 
 thats why I love soccer. You need time to get used to the controls I think like 1 hour and is easy 
 to handled with the tutorial. 
  
  about the graphics looks slightly better than ps2 but like I said before The controls is the mos 
 important thing in this game.
  
  Dont be skeptic about this new concept like I was at the beginning play this game and you will 
 see what I am talking about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMario_46
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  The Good: New innovative control scheme that works well  Decent online mode  Great animations 
  Pro Evo is back on a Nintendo home console
  
  The Bad: Music is a bit repetitive  Lack of many licensed teams
  
  _______________
  
  
 
  Football/Soccer on the wii has been nothing but a disappointment so far, first with Mario Strikers 
 Charged which was decent but not really great and then with Fifa 08, which turned out to be the 
 worst game in the series in years, and let's not even talk about Kidz Sports: Soccer. But now Konami 
 decided to release their venerable Pro Evolution Soccer franchise in a Nintendo home console for 
 the first time in years, and it's not only the best soccer game for the Wii, but also the best 
 of this generation so far.
  
  The first thing you'll do in this game is a long but necessary tutorial, and this is a must do, 
 why? Well because Pro Evo 08 is completely different from every other soccer game out there. There's 
 a pointer on the screen that helps you select the players and move them, you can also move with 
 the nunchuck and that works better, but the pointer is necessary when it comes to pass, you'll 
 do this by aiming at the player and pressing the B buton. Shacking the nunchuk makes the player 
 shot the ball, swinging the wiimote makes him throw a chip shot. That's about it for basics, they 
 seem a bit complicated at first but they are pretty easy to do and you'll master the controls easily. 
 
  
  This is the best controlling so far in any football game, because you can control every single 
 player on screen with the pointer, still there's a flaw in defense, because you don't really do 
 much, and this is probably the worst part of the awesome gameplay. You just press A on the opposing 
 player and the closest defender will attack him, you can tackle by shacking the nunchuck and holding 
 the Z button and that's about it. It's not really effective when you're being overwhelmed by opposing 
 players, so that's a bit disappointing sometimes, still, it works well. 
  
  The game can get confusing at times, especially with so many lines being drawn on the field, but 
 it flows well and it's a bit more tactical than other PES games, but don't be fooled, it doesn't 
 loose the arcade, simple styIe that makes PES so fun. 
  
  When it comes to game modes, PES is a not short of them. There's single match where you can play 
 against the computer or another player. League, where you can play some of the big leagues in the 
 world like the spanish primera and the calcio. In Cup mode you can create custom cups and play 
 in especial ones like the Konami cup. Champions road is the main mode of the game and the one that 
 will take more of your time, you start a custom team and you play in leagues so you can earn trophies, 
 get new and better players and upgrade their skills, is not as good as Fifa's manager mode but 
 is a great main mode. In training you'll train... duh. And the last one is the online mode, which 
 is lag free and pretty good, even if it's a bit basic. 
  
  The game only supports two players, which is good because otherwise the matches can get extremely 
 confusing. You can also save replays and save your custom teams on the wiimote. The game doesn't 
 really have many licensed teams to play with, there are a couple of leagues that have the complete 
 teams, but the rest are made up, some of the examples are found in the english league where you'll 
 see teams like London F. C. and Man Red. The funniest part of this game is playing with your Miis, 
 you can bring them to the field with their gigantic heads, they're not the best players, but damn 
 they're funny. 
  
  The presentation is great, the menus look good and are easy to navigate, and the game intros are 
 good. You can set the menus in one of three languages (spanish, english and french) and the commentators 
 will change depending on which you chose. All the commentators are great, so no matter what language 
 you chose you'll hear great comments. 
  
  On the visuals side of things this game looks great, especially the character animations and physics, 
 they're very realistic, there are some jaggies and graphical glitches here and there but they're 
 forgivable. The music fits the game, but is a bit repetitive, especially the main menu music, which 
 is just na, na ,na, na over and over again. 
  
  Pro Evo 08 is a successful game, and it's so great that it's back on a Nintendo console after all 
 this time. Konami did a really great thing bringing it to the wii and making it one of the best 
 and most complete football games of all time, in fact if it wasn't for Fifa 07 this would definitely 
 be the best. So if you enjoy football you'll love Pro Evo 08 on the wii. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: krato_sephiroth
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game hoping for the best yet expecting the worst...... ITs an amzing game in every 
 possible way
  I have played pro evo on every console since the ps1 and alwsays love it.... however the master 
 league was starting to get stale and every winning eleven was exact same as the last... well up 
 until this one
  see the controls are pretty easy to learn throught the tutorials but difficult to master.. these 
 are my signs of a great game
  and the online... well is less laggy than the ps3 and xbox360 version and i was very surprised to 
 the fact that i played over 20 games without any lag whatsoever.. (still hate friend codes though)
 
  but this game has regularly forced ssbb and mario galaxy out of my wii and thats an achievement....
 
  my only problem is the difficult-2-control defence and lack of editing options (in tactics and 
 player appearences and all)
  but that will prbly be fixed in the nxt version... but till know for 40 bucks this game is a must 
 buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: galaxybrawler
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 3:27 am PT
Review:  well this isnt your usual soccer game with a boring old ps2 or xbox controller. someone had the 
 brains to take complete and full advantage of the wii remote and numchuk and finally turn this 
 into a beautiful soccer game that i would say is the best soccer game ever made.
  
  the graphics i would say are one of the best for the wii. but the crowd looks absolute rubbish 
 (same as n64) but the players look very good and i would say next to mario galaxy towards graphics. 
 the sounds are absolutely fantastic aswell the commentators can get repetetive though.
  
  the game has a very good tutorial system which isnt that helpful as you figure the controls and 
 stuff out by yourself but the tutorials are basically perfect getting you aware of all the things 
 you can do very well.
  
  it also has a very good multiplayer aspect to it. 2 people can play at a time. and it has a very 
 good wifi aspect to it aswell. but it isnt a popular game and therefore not many people are found 
 on online which is a pitty.
  
  overall this game is just wonderful and is a must have game if you like or play soccer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JC___2007
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  7.5/10
  
  First off, the controls (attacking) are fantastic and Konami deserve full credit for attempting 
 a new method of controlling a football game. Dribbling works fine (too well actually but thats 
 not the fault of the guy who engineered the dribble mechanincs) - with a press of the A button 
 you indicate where your player should dribble, and if you move the cursor further away from the 
 player, his speed increases (who needs a shoulder button for sprint? Not Nintendo certainly!) Passing 
 is a dream with the B button and you can also move a fellow attacker into space with the B button 
 - when the button is released you pass it to him. 
  
  However, they are being either foolish or too optimistic by removing the old controls completely, 
 this option could have been a choice at the initial loading screen. This would have created 2 games 
 in 1, old PES and the new...... it would be a nice extra (although admittedly slightly pointless 
 as the graphics are not any sharper than PES5 on the xbox1, the system I upgraded from)
  
  If attacking is brilliant with the new interface, surely the same can be said of defending? Sadly 
 not....... I have no earthly idea what they were thinking of when it came to the defensive controls. 
 Quite apart from the terrible man marking system now in place and the fact that you are basically 
 a spectator until one of your "drones" wins the ball back (or you wave your nunchuck when the cursor 
 changes colour to perform a sliding tackle) there is one MASSIVE fault - all the CPU players run 
 away from the ball on occasion, so in an attack of 1 vs 5 defenders a quick shimmy or a little 
 wriggle will - sometimes (its all a bit hit and miss you see) - see you through on goal. Dribbling 
 is king, along with the "drag your man into space and pass it" functionality of the B button. Again 
 a question from a defensive point of view - how on earth do you counter this? Defending should 
 be done as in years past, with the nunchuck used to control the nearest player to the ball (or 
 at least for there to be an option for this) ) , with the defending team able to switch player with 
 the c / z Button. I thought that was the whole point of having the nunchuck/remote combination, 
 to enable analogue stick control where needed? Well, its sorely missed here.....
  
  
  Also, there is no skill in swinging the nunchuck to shoot as the wii calculates shot power and 
 direction, based on the players stats. This will surely be replaced by a variable shot power / 
 direction for the next version, but I would have thought it could have been included in this one 
 (again - me and my options, it could be an option which both teams would have to abide by) . Cynical 
 me says its been left out to make sure you get PES 2009....... 
  
  The other occasion you swing the remote (apart from slide tackling) is when clearing the ball: 
 another wave on the nunchuck and your defender hoofs or heads the ball out of your half. Although 
 its actually quite good fun, this says one of two things to me:
  
  (i) Damn it, we didn't put enough buttons on the controllers
  (ii) Damn it, it's motion sensing 
 technology and we are damn well going to use it at every opportunity.
  
  
  Training camp is also very hit and miss for me, when you try to do what it is telling you on the 
 screen, the computer does everything for you, leaving you to try the move out for the first time 
 in the certificate zone at the end of each tutorial.
  
  I regard this game as a beta version of what may possibly be the best game ever created on any 
 format, PES2009. Whilst certainly being fun - which seems to be Nintendo's mantra (which is no 
 bad thing, incidently) - its also frustrating. One instance, I was 3-0 and a man down after 20 
 minutes against Holland, coming back to lose 4-3. It was fun (there, the "F" word again.....) , but 
 at least 4 of the goals wouldn't have happened under previous versions of PES, as the defence wouldn't 
 have been so erratic. I think 0-0's will certainly be thinner on the ground in this version. And 
 therefore it its fun appeal both in 2 player mode and vs the computer is hugely diminished by (legitimate) 
 complaints from the defending team - its almost a soccer version of basketball where the team with 
 the ball are expected to score.
  
  The "to do" list for 2009 to get a perfect 10 game:
  
  (1) Rework the defensive controls completely, the CPU AI, and add options as to how you control 
 blocks of players (Gain of +1.5 pts)
  (2) Add variable shot power (and direction?) or option to map a shot power gauge to a button (there 
 must be one available) (Gain of 1 pt)
  (3) Improve training camp, maybe add 100 real life situations to copy history or change it - ie 
 Michael Thomas through on goal against Liverpool in 1988/89, needing to score to win the title 
 on goal difference. Or Utd in 1999, a goal down with 1 minute to go in the CL final.
  
  OR
  
  (4) Add classic controller to list of control types - won't be necessary if they do 1 
 2 & 3 - in fact might even be a backward step. 
  
  As its fun, I think 7.5 is a fair score - rent it first if you can. If you can forgive the defensive 
 controls you may think its a lot better than that. I'm astounded its getting 9 and 9.5's with reviewers 
 basically saying "if the defending working in any way shape or form I'd give it 10". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stazi42
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2008 1:18 am PT
Review:  The game menu visuals are simple and fast. Konami never designed menu to look nice. This is a soccer 
 game so you will forget it immediatelly. The game graphics are the expected great graphics that 
 you are expecting from wii. In the game you have the full control of your players, whatever you 
 think, it can be done. You can design your ideas into the game, it is really impressive how well 
 you can organise attacks without even losing your passion for the game or getting bord. About the 
 defence at the beginning you believe that you can not defend so well but after a few game you can 
 understand complete how the new control scheme works and it is really easy to controls your defenders 
 with the only drawback that a more manual control on the defenders would have help. The online 
 mode is perfect , and there are no problems with the connections. If you dont have it yet , you 
 should buy it defenetelly because you haven't ever felt how it is to play such a great soccer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roryrozza
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Well worth the wait, plays the most realistic and controlled game of football you find on any system 
 to date...
  
  I bought PES 2008 on the pc and psp and havent been overly impressed, as a pes fan who has been 
 playing konami football games since the first iss on ps1 I didnt really know what to expect from 
 the wii version but am happy to say its by far and away the best version of pro evolution I have 
 ever played. There's no way I could go back to playing with a joypad after this, the level of control 
 you have over your team makes this feel like the first ever time I played sensible soccer, its 
 just so different to any other footy game out there.
  
  As other users have reported it takes a good 3 or 4 games to fully understand the control system 
 but is definately worth sticking at. There are a few things that could be improved, the graphics, 
 menu interface even the music, but to be honest they dont really matter once you sus out how to 
 successfully counterattack against another human opponent on the online mode, all the games faults 
 seem to vanish.
  
  If your a pro evo fan, or even a fifa fan who hasnt yet seen the light do yourself a favour and 
 get the best footy game currently available on any system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: euro96
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  I am a pro evo veteran and i find the wii one great. The defence is pretty poor however but the 
 attacking side of the game makes up for it you end up getting realistic games as it is actually 
 quite hard to work openings. I made a champions league tournament and on proffesional level drew 
 1-1 with utd then lost 1-2 to rangers then drew with porto 1-1 so it is a fairly difficult game.
 
  
  Getting round the controls is quite easy even for someone like me who is used to old pro evos. 
 You can edit premiership team names but you can't transfer players which is a bit annoying as Ole 
 gunner sojlskaer (not sure about spelling) scored against me. 
  
  Its great fun to play but at first you might not like it but once you get the hang of it its great. 
 Defending needs to be sorted out for the next release they need to just have normal controls for 
 defence as it is very annoying when you concede stupid goals. Loose balls are hard ot get aswell 
 as players will often run past or away from the ball when it loose which cna also cost you goals. 
 I give it 7.5/10 graphics could be imrpoved slightly btu mainly the defence controls let it down 
 a little. But the attacking side if the game is fantastic and im a football fanatic and love the 
 game so other football fans should love it too.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: altmoonster
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 11:24 am PT
Review:  I will begin by commending Konami on trying something new. They have perhaps gained back 25% of 
 my loyalty that they lost with such a horrid online implementation of the 360 version. Playing 
 this game is like playing a telestrator that you see television sports commentators use to illustrate 
 plays. This play mechanics is both liberating and restricting. 
  
  You can set up pretty much any play imaginable, sending players on runs etc to your heart's content. 
 At first blush it is remarkable and refreshing. 
  
  But then when you go to shoot the ball, and the freedom stops short. It makes no sense whatsoever 
 that Konami would condense the act of shooting into a shake of the nunchuk, but that is what they 
 have done. Placement, power, and any of the other subtleties of shooting are governed solely by 
 the ai. That knocks a point off the score for me.
  
  Defense is also quite innovative at first. You can determine individual man-marking assignments 
 on the fly, and pretty much tell each defender where to run to using simple flicks of the wiimote. 
 All this is great, but once again the finer level of control is lost when you need it most, as 
 a defender's ability to win the ball is primarily determined by stats, not your skill. For that 
 I subtract a half point. Add that to the fact that the defensive AI is pretty poor (defenders running 
 away from a attackers and/or free balls is a little too common) and you will find that even with 
 all the control you will still concede goals that are because of AI and not you. subtract 1 point.
 
  
  Overall I like this game, but there are a few key design decisions that keep it from being what 
 it could have been. Too bad, try again next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racalavaca
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  The system and controls areawesome, and you will find yourself in love with this game after only 
 a few minutes, and even more as you discover new features, wich, contrary to what most are saying, 
 I found quite intuitive.
  
  The main fault in this game though, is the defensive system, wich you can't really control that 
 well since you can't take control of any individual players, and instead send them around rather 
 randomly to mark individual attacking players... this and the fact that you cannot edit players, 
 as in virtually every other game in the PES series, really ends up contributing to a feeling that 
 those players are not really "you", it feels more like you're the manager, and if you like that 
 there are far better games, like FM2008.
  
  The out-of-game interface is far from perfected as well, and the team screen can be quite irritating 
 after a few times you try to frag and drop the players and end up switching your players because 
 there's so little space, or when you want him to be a bit to the right, but it changes the player's 
 role automatically and you can't change it back without moving him to the left again. (i. e: CB 
 to WBR)
  
  Anyway, if you can afford to, get this, if not I reccomend you just rent it and play it while it's 
 still fun (a few hours) , or just revive the good moments on your old ps2 because I guarantee you 
 they were better games all-and-all... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PKODO
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2008 7:46 am PT
Review:  Got this game a day before the release date and God was I impressed with this game!! It offers 
 a real unique style of gameplay and the graphics aint bad either!! After the great disapointment 
 that was Fifa 08 I just thought this was such a breath of fresh air and the only downside was the 
 out of date team line-ups and guessing which club was who in the English league but I got there 
 in the end. The drag n' drop style of play is a great way to take total control of your team setting 
 up multiple runs and passes which allows you to think more ahead when setting up a goal. Unlike 
 EA's attempt on the Wii the tutorial isnt too much to take in or too confusing only teaching you 
 the basics at first then later on when you get better allowing you to learn even more trickier 
 skills allowing you to progress at you own rate. I havent played online yet but I am eager and 
 looking forward to it when there is more apponents to take on in a month or 2 giving time for the 
 game to circulate. This game is hours of fun guarenteed!! Lets just hope that other future footy 
 games can live up to PES 2008 on the Wii. Awsome game!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario2BM5
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  One Konami's fantastic series gets a new coat of paint on the Wii. PES2008 (one of the most longest 
 titles ever!) does justice to the PES series and Konami seems to be unstoppable. There really isnt 
 a story but as in any Soccer game youre after the gold to become Champs. The graphics for this 
 game are stunning for a Soccer game. Every movement looks so realistic. The facial animations are 
 better than FIFA Soccer 08 and looks better than FIFA Soccer 08! The sound for this game is nice 
 touch and the comentaters sound better and are more into the game unlike any other sports game 
 or any wrestling game. The crowd keeps on cheering and as you get closer to the goal then the crowd 
 just goes wild, then when you miss they all stop cheering and say Awwww. The crowd reacts to whatever 
 you do. The comentaters also react to what you do. The gameplay is smoother, funner, and a lot less 
 complicated. A to pass, B to shoot, and Z is to run. You can actually pass and shoot just by puting 
 the pointer to where you to shoot or pass! Its so simple a 3 year old can do it! The Wi-fi works 
 and there are no problems with it but the lack of options leaves a lot to be desired. The voice 
 work is a little bit off and they couldve done better. Though the graphics do look good, they tend 
 to look more like a PS2 version of this game at some points. The Music is Mediocore at its best 
 though. Menus are clean, and there is lots of different teams, stadiums, and characters but I found 
 the poisition placment a bit confusing and the laughable at the same time because all of the characters 
 look like huge bobble heads! Overall this should be purchased by any Soccer or Football fan, any 
 body looking for a great soccer game, any body for a fun online and family game, or just someone 
 who wants to spend their $50 on a Wii game but they already have Brawl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nilric
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  Just for starting: the name of the game is FOOTBALL not soccer :-) .
  
  Well, football games, just like other many sport games, always had a great problem in controlling. 
 We always could control just one player at the time, the player with the ball. Besides that, it 
 is common to try to pass the ball in a place and the video game put it in another one.
  
  All of this is past!!!!!
  
  Football games are divided in before PES2008 Wii and after.
  
 
  Now you can do all you dreamed. you cam move your players in real time as many as you can and pass 
 the ball in the exactaly point you want. The game is in the limit of the reality. 
  But it`s not just that. For the first time, a softhouse really explored what Wii is capable, beyond 
 the freneticaly moving hand games, most are doing.
  
  The only one thing that is not good in the game is that now, the revolutionary sistem of PES2008 
 forbid you to call your friend in your home for a game because you can see what the other one would 
 do and that`s why it`s not 10, but 10, in this case, would destroy the best of the game.
  
  Well folks, the revolution is now reality.
  
  One Wii to rule them all ......
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaysonguy
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  PES 2008 is a perfect example of a dev taking advantage of hardware instead of just spitting out 
 multiplats that look and play roughly the same on all systems.
  
  The game is controlled with the pointer so that on offense all you need to do is hold the A button 
 and drag the player with the ball where you'd like him to go. If you need to pass the ball just 
 point to the player that needs the ball and click the B button and the pass is made. If you want 
 to lead the player click the B button and hold it while you draw out where you'd like the player 
 to be running to when he gets the ball, release the button and viola! The ball is delivered to 
 the other player in mid stride.
  
  There's two ways to pass. One way is to have the computer judge how you'd like to deliver the ball. 
 Another one is to make it so you can personally control if you want to make a straight pass or 
 a lob pass.
  
  To shoot the ball all you need to do is get in position and do a flick of the nunchuck for a hard 
 kick or a flick of the Wiimote to do a lob.
  
  On defense you click on the player with the ball and your guys will go and try to take it. If you 
 want to help them out there's even a way when you can hold the Z button on the nunchuck and flick 
 the nunchuck to try a sliding tackle. You can draw out where you want your players to go on defense 
 so you decide on the formations on the fly if you don't like the position they're in.
  
  All in all on the surface this sounds very simple but it gives the user the most control ever in 
 a sports game. No longer are you in control of just one or two player on offense or defense. With 
 the pointer system you can control each movement of every single player on the screen. If you want 
 to set up a trap on defense you can make sure that every single player is in the right position. 
 If you want to make sure you get the perfect scoring chance on offense you don't need to worry 
 that the computer will muck it up, now you have full control.
  
  I've just gone over the controls briefly but there is a great amount of depth to them. Soon you'll 
 be intercepting everything on defense and breaking ankles on offense. It's a great control scheme 
 that allows a user to understand it quickly and truly rewards users who put in the time to get 
 all the controls down pat.
  
  As far as modes go PES is full of them.
  Single match mode against another player or the computer
  League play (in whatever league you 
 feel like playing in)
  Cup play that allows the player to compete in massive 32 nation tourneys to smaller Cup events
 
  Championship Road which allows you to take control of a team you create yourself and make it the 
 very best in the world. Each time you defeat a team you'll be able to select players to join your 
 squad.
  Training mode which allows you to learn tasty and fast ice cream recipes. Nah it's to train in 
 a smattering of events that will let you hone your game.
  Nintendo WFC is the online component of the game, it allows users to play each other online
  
 
  Now when it comes to online this game does not disappoint. It not only features player VS player 
 matches but it also downloads friends teams via Wiiconnect24 and allows you to play your friend's 
 teams even when they're not online.
  
  It also takes advantage of the Wii in two ways 
  1. You can import your Mii's to play a game. Now all the Mii's you created get to show off their 
 skills on the field.
  2. You can import your team and stats to the Wiimote and bring that data on the go. All you need 
 to do is bring the Wiimote to a friend's house import it to their Wii or you can even trade teams 
 and players with your friend using the Wiimotes on one Wii. 
  
  All in all this is the definitive soccer/football game this generation and everyone with at least 
 some interest in the genre should give it a try. Chances are it'll hook most people who take the 
 chance on a truly magnificent game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
