-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Puzzle Quest: Challenge of the Warlords
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/puzzle/puzzlequestchallenge/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 RPG context adds depth to familiar puzzle gameplay.
 Puzzle gameplay makes traditional RPG structure way more addictive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Difficulty level can be inconsistent.
 Cramped presentation.
 Wii controls can be awkward.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 11, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.1, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 167 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: D3
Developer: Vicious Cycle
Genre: Matching Puzzle
Date: Nov 30, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's not the best version of Puzzle Quest to date, but it still offers much of the same great fun. 
 

  Originally released in early 2007 on the PlayStation Portable and Nintendo DS, Puzzle Quest was 
 a revelation. By taking some of the most compelling properties of puzzle and role-playing games, 
 Infinite Interactive created something that was more than the sum of its parts. It's an RPG that 
 can be played in short bursts, as well as a puzzle game that begs to be played in long stretches. 
 Puzzle Quest is now available on the Wii, and although the screen layout makes the playfield smaller 
 than would be ideal and the controls are less than perfect, the excellent gameplay remains undaunted. 

           You can play Puzzle Quest in short bursts, but you won't want to.      

  At the start it seems like RPG business as usual. There's a nicely painted overworld map dotted 
 with castles, villages, and enemy strongholds that you'll travel about, taking on quests and fighting 
 the random monsters that block your path from one location to the next. You'll get new weapons, 
 armor, equipment, and spells; new characters will join your party; and once you establish your 
 own personal citadel, you'll be able to capture creatures and use them as mounts, craft new items 
 out of special runes found out in the world, and eventually lay siege on opposing cities.  

  What makes Puzzle Quest so interesting is how it uses a familiar puzzle game format to perform 
 these actions. The gameplay is most analogous to Bejeweled. If Puzzle Quest were  just  Bejeweled, 
 it would probably get tedious quickly, but by applying several standard RPG combat conventions 
 to the formula, it becomes something much more strategic. Standard, one-on-one combat is the most 
 common game you'll play, and it's also the deepest. You and your opponent, each using the same 
 board, will take turns moving pieces, trying to whittle down each other's reserve of hit points. 
 Attacks are performed by lining up skull-shaped pieces, though you've also got several spells that 
 you can use for both offensive and defensive purposes. The spells you'll start off with, as well 
 as the spells you'll earn as you gain experience levels, are largely dictated by which profession 
 you choose at the start of the game.  

  Spells can require up to four different types of color-coded mana to use, and you charge up your 
 mana reserves by clearing out red, blue, yellow, and green pieces from the board. The back-and-forth 
 dynamic demands that you think several steps ahead any time you move a piece, since you want to 
 avoid setting up your opponent with favorable piece positions at the end of your turn. In addition 
 to the mana and skull pieces, there are gold coins and purple experience-point pieces that can 
 earn you extra postgame bonuses, as well as wild-card multipliers, which can make the mana pieces 
 you clear worth much more.  

  Setting up rows or columns of four or five pieces is critical during combat as it gives you an 
 extra turn, and any time you can buy is useful. Even just a few hours into the game, the enemies 
 you'll face in Puzzle Quest can be downright merciless, and there are times when it seems as though 
 the computer is stacking the odds in its own favor. Still, even when you lose a fight, you earn 
 a small amount of coin and XP, and the only punishment is that you have to fight that enemy over 
 again. Other tasks, such as training a mount, learning a spell, and crafting items all require 
 you to play through modified versions of the standard combat gameplay that change the rules slightly, 
 but scratch a similar itch.  

  When you gain enough XP to level, you're given points that you can distribute between seven character 
 attributes, which, along with your gear, mount, party members, and spells, can have a profound 
 effect on how Puzzle Quest plays, and it helps keep the gameplay fresh. Even if you stick strictly 
 to the main quest, ignoring the numerous side quests, item crafting, sieging of towns, or numerous 
 other activities you can get into, Puzzle Quest is truly epic in size. Unfortunately, Puzzle Quest 
 on the Wii doesn't include the online play found in the Xbox Live Arcade version released earlier. 
 This is also the worst-looking console version of Puzzle Quest, with a cramped screen layout and 
 lots of jaggy edges. The game attempts to give Wii owners something unique with two different control 
 schemes -- one with the Nunchuk, one without -- but both feel compromised and somewhat unintuitive. 
 When using just the Wii Remote, you have to deal with a jittery cursor, and when you have the Nunchuk 
 connected, the left analog stick and the d-pad are not as interchangeable as you might like.  

 
           The playfield in the Wii version feels a little wedged in there.      

  The appeal of Puzzle Quest for fans of either RPGs or puzzle games is quite obvious, but what's 
 most remarkable about Puzzle Quest is how a simple change of context turns some tired genre conventions 
 into something suitable for just about anyone, regardless of your interest in the components. Despite 
 coming out nearly a year after the original DS and PSP releases, and despite its technical shortcomings, 
 Puzzle Quest on the Wii is still an engaging and unique experience.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  The puzzle genre has grown in recent years, a blessing facilitated largely by the role the Nintendo 
 DS played in innovating the genre. From churning out interesting new titles like Meteos or Magnetica 
 to updating classics like Tetris, the DS is a puzzle-gamer's dream. Easily one of the system's 
 best puzzle games, Puzzle Quest: Challenge of the Warlords has now been ported to the Nintendo 
 Wii.
  
  The premise behind Puzzle Quest is an interesting one: the game seeks to meld traditional puzzle 
 gaming with some very deep RPG features. The game is complex, and ought to be discussed in two 
 main parts: the puzzle aspect to the game, and the RPG aspect of the game. The puzzle part is really 
 quite simple and straightforward: the game plays out like the classic puzzler Bejeweled, where 
 you must line up three or more gems of the same color to get them to disappear. The catch: you 
 can only move any gem one space up, down, left, or right, and any gem moved must create a row or 
 column of three or more like-colored gems. That is, if your move doesn't create a row or column, 
 it is illegal and you are penalized.
  
  The RPG elements are, similarly, pretty standard for any role playing title. Each puzzle is presented 
 as a battle, where you're fighting somebody by using the puzzle elements detailed already. Lining 
 up three or more skulls, for example, will directly damage your opponent. First to reduce his foe's 
 HP to zero, naturally, is the victor. There's a variety of equipment and weapons to be found in 
 the Puzzle Quest world, and all of them can be equipped to help out during battle. For example, 
 the stronger your weapon, the more damage you'll do when you line up three or more skulls. There 
 are also golden stars scattered throughout a puzzle board which, when lined up, give you experience, 
 another classing RPG implementation.
  
  But what about regular old colored gems? Far from useless, there's actually a lot of strategy in 
 getting rows or columns of regular gems. Every time you line up, say, three red gems, they disappear 
 from the board and more gems fall in to take their place. You get a credit for the amount of gems 
 you removed from the board, called mana in the game. Depending on the class that you choose (more 
 on that in a bit) , you'll have a variety of unique spells at your disposal. Each spell has a specific 
 mana requirement in order to be cast, and these spells, not the skulls, are usually the way to 
 deal the most damage. So obviously, there's a bit of strategy in balancing skulls lined up, for 
 small amounts of quick damage, versus saving up for some spells, which are more powerful but take 
 longer to initiate.
  
  The game essentially has you going out on quests, with certain objectives in mind. Naturally, you're 
 attacked along the way (or more often, your quest involves attacking somebody else) , and you initiate 
 a fight. The difficulty level is unforgiving; even from the start, your opponents will be racking 
 up long combos and dealing massive amounts of damage while you struggle to find a move within the 
 time limit. Sometimes, the game seems downright unfair, with important pieces being placed in perfect 
 position for the computer to make use of them; no such favoritism is ever shown to you, though. 
 Still, in an era and on a platform of simple, dumbed-down gaming, hardcore gamers will likely appreciate 
 the difficulty that Puzzle Quest brings to the table.
  
  The Wii control is fairly straightforward and won't really be surprising to anybody who played 
 the DS version of the game. Simply point at a gem to highlight it, then slide it where you want 
 to move it. Aside from that, there's really no Wii-trademark control -- that is, there's no real 
 motion control. No jiggling the remote around for extra damage. No symbol drawing to finish off 
 your foes. Time and time again we've been shown the downfalls that come from injecting a game with 
 a Wii control scheme that it doesn't really work, and luckily, the developers have taken notice 
 and learned from that.
  
  Another very neat addition to Puzzle Quest is that of a class system. There are four different 
 classes to play in the game, each with their own special abilities -- mainly, the types of spells 
 they cast. There's a decidedly different strategy for each of the four classes, and it's a lot 
 of fun determining a general game strategy depending on which class you picked. In addition, the 
 addition of classes significantly adds to the game's replay value. Each class plays in a specific 
 manner, so it's entirely feasible for you to play through the title several times to really get 
 as much as possible out of it.
  
  The plot is also surprisingly well-done, particularly for a puzzle game, which seem to be notorious 
 for their shallow plots -- or complete omission of any trace of a story. Admittedly, the plot employed 
 by the creators of Puzzle Quest is rather clich&eacute; d and pales against the likes of a well-developed, 
 fleshed out story in a full-fledged role-playing title. Still, the story does a good job of holding 
 everything together. There's also some decent voice-acting sparsely thrown in, which is always 
 a plus.
  
  The plot, however, brings up one of my two big problems with this game. Before I voice it, let 
 me ask that you not laugh. I'm not kidding: the text in this game is pathetically small. I've got 
 good eyes and can read well, but I honestly could not read the text in this game. Fearing it may 
 be my 11-inch TV in my room, I rushed downstairs and plugged the Wii into the 30-inch TV in the 
 sun porch. The problem was alleviated, but only slightly. The text was absolutely miniscule -- 
 something I still can't get over. I'm sorry, but it's absolutely inappropriate these days for text 
 to be unreadable in a game if you don't have a large-screen TV. So, for those of you playing on 
 smaller television screens like myself, be warned: if you're going to want to get into this game 
 as a result of the plot, you may want to take a pass, because it's going to be damn hard for you 
 to do so if you can't see the words pop up on the screen.
  
  Graphically, Puzzle Quest isn't all that impressive. Naturally, it's better looking than it's DS 
 counterpart, but that's only to be expected. Of course, graphics are never that important in a 
 puzzle game, but considering the RPG elements and the many conversations and environments you visit, 
 it would have been nice to see a few cutscenes or something. No such luck, though -- we're given 
 only pre-rendered backgrounds and still character models. The game doesn't look bad, but it definitely 
 could have looked better.
  
  My second big problem with this game is pretty much drawing everything together: the game is less 
 than the sum of its parts. The Wii version of Puzzle Quest just doesn't stand up to other versions 
 of the same game. The gameplay is fine, but control with the stylus works better. Graphically, 
 this game clearly isn't living up to the obvious potential of the Wii. And at 30 bucks, why not 
 just buy the DS version if you really want to shell out that money? It's a better game on the DS 
 anyway, with the bonus that you can carry it around and play it whenever you want. While it's by 
 no means a bad game, if you want to experience Puzzle Quest, you're far better off doing so on 
 another system -- luckily, the game is also available on the DS, PSP, XBox 360, and PS2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuramak
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 20, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  The idea is nice , even tough there are many many games alike even in flash or for cellphone .
 
  The graphics are really terrible, really really, it feels like I am looking at a super Nintendo 
 game, at least at the mains scream the image could be better.
  The game play is simple , feels right , and it is addictive , there are some extras that add some 
 adventure to the game . Like capturing monsters or constructing things .
  The nice thing in my opinion about the game , is that this is the kind of game that you can just 
 turn on the video game when you want to relax a bit and play , there are not so much quick moves 
 or much thinking and you can save at any time .
  The RPG part is really simple , there are not so many options some of the spells kind of look the 
 same and the real deal is the puzzle part , the rpg part is just a extra , and the story really 
 lame , don't bother reading .
  If you like puzzles this may be your game .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: merit_wolf
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  This review assumes you are interested in the game, and have learned the basic premises. The screenshots 
 should give you a basic idea. Now, admitting that I'm an RPG fan much more than a puzzler, I approached 
 this game with an open mind. For one thing, I'd like an RPG that wasn't totally dependent on graphic 
 violence. This game is a good concept, dissolving an otherwise unbreakable bond between RPG-type 
 (level and stat-driven) gaming with great amounts of violence. I acquired this game semi-eagerly, 
 only to find that this game was released with a selection of unforgivable and sometimes unbelievable 
 errors. The worst thing, absolutely abominable, is that the functions to increase damage you do 
 to the enemy do not work. When you perform the basic attack, by lining up three skulls, you do 
 four damage, regardless of what your weapons and other equips say you should be doing. On the other 
 hand, if he has armor to protect him, he can get away with a lot less damage. This means that the 
 knight character, your basic paladin/tank type character, does no more direct damage than a wizard, 
 while the wizard can accumulate mana much more easily to drown the enemy in spells. A low-grade 
 wizard's spell, Fireball, which destroys a 3x3 grid, giving you (supposedly) minimal effect from 
 the gems destroyed, does 8 damage if you catch ONE skull in your area of effect. This means you 
 end up playing all characters like the wizard. Some people like that, and I have played wizards. 
 But if you give these different characters, you need to be able to play to your strengths, and 
 you cannot do that here. Also, the AI is obscenely quick, as AIs typically are. This would be a 
 non-issue, except that mounts provide a powerful method of upgrading your stats. To do this, you 
 train them by fighting creatures with a time limit on each move. However, when you have three seconds 
 to determine and make your move, and the AI continues grabbing moves at his normal (read instantaneous) 
 speed, victory against anything higher than one third of your level is impossible. Another problem, 
 and it should be so easy to fix, is that the text is blurry. Very blurry. I'm watching this on 
 a 30" TV, and it's unreadable sometimes. The final problem, and the second unforgivable problem, 
 is that the pointer twitches. This is a Wii game, and you point with the Wii-mote. Unfortunately, 
 no matter how steady you are, the pointer on the screen is jumping around. I verified this by placing 
 the Wii-mote on a table. This makes it very difficult to select a gem to move, and especially if 
 you're playing under any time pressure. Even the most careful selections can sometimes go awry 
 because of this. This is not a Wii problem, as I have spent over a thousand hours on the Wii, and 
 this is the only game that does it. If you are going to take advantage of the Wii's unique interface, 
 you need to do it right.
  On a side note, the story line is subpar as well. The SL is not really a major element in this 
 game, but the hero in this game is the stupidest individual ever to be called a hero. Every time 
 a random creature asks you something, you go off and do it, even if this means killing someone 
 to steal an item they possess, or killing the people looking to capture him. On a couple of occasions, 
 this comes back to bite you, and you have another quest to fix what you shouldn't have done in 
 the first place. I realize quest-writing is hard, but many other games do it, and very well. Go 
 play World of Warcraft and steal some of theirs. They have thousands.
  If you've read my ranting review this far, thanks. If you're interested in this game, buy it because 
 you like Bejeweled and Jewel Quest and others like that, not because you want an RPG or a storyline. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piledriver
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  PuzzleQuest delivers wonderfully as a new spin on the classic Bejeweled puzzle formula. There's 
 just enough RPG to keep serious gamers happy but at the same time enough puzzle to appeal to the 
 masses. 
  
  I had played the demo on the PC before getting the Wii version for Christmas. I was excited to 
 get the Wii version because I thought it would be a great couch game that wasn't just another mini-game. 
 Unfortunately, as the Gamespot review notes, the screen layout and design is just too small to 
 suffer through unless you have a huge TV. I have a 27" TV so reading any of the PuzzleQuest text 
 was futile.
  
  This is a game that needs the quick point-n-click of the PC. The pointer controls weren't too bad, 
 although text entry with the remote is very awkward. Although I have the Wii version, I downloaded 
 the PC version for both myself and my wife. We've both been playing regularly. My wife never thought 
 she'd be able to say she's a level 28 druid. 
  
  I was hoping to have some on-line play with the Wii version, but it's limited to a simple 2-player 
 mode. However, the internet play on the PC version isn't all that great either, but the LAN mode 
 is simple and fun.
  
  There's a lot of fun in this game regardless what platform you get it for. If you have a giant 
 TV then the Wii version is a great way to experience it. If your set isn't quite up to the 40"+ 
 range then I'd recommend an alternate version. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
