-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rampage: Total Destruction
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/rampagetotaldestruction/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lots of creatively designed monsters.
 plenty of cities to play through in both single- and multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Newly-added Wii tilt controls feel totally half-baked.
 Core action is utterly devoid of depth.
 very little variety to the environments.
 overly repetitive sound effects.
 monster-on-monster combat is almost nonexistent.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 17, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.1
Critic Score: 4.9, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 381 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Midway
Developer: Pipeworks Software
Genre: Action
Date: Nov 14, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Shoehorning in the most basic of Wii motion-sensing controls doesn't make a clunky, repetitive game 
 like Rampage fun -- if anything, it just makes it more annoying. 

  The only thing more depressing than a remake of a classic game that isn't very good is a remake 
 of a classic game that simultaneously isn't good on its own merits, and also manages to bring you 
 to the realization that the classic game on which it's based isn't as good as you remember it being. 
 Midway's Rampage series took arcades by storm back in the late '80s, providing players with the 
 ability to storm through various metropolitan areas of the world and destroy them with gargantuan 
 monsters. It was the kind of simplistic, button-mashy fun that could fly in a simpler time, a game 
 designed specifically for mindless entertainment and to keep you inserting quarters. There hasn't 
 been a new version of Rampage in half a decade, and after playing Rampage: Total Destruction, the 
 newest installment in the series, it's not tough to see why. The problem is that the gameplay simply 
 hasn't evolved over time. You wander around the same types of two-dimensional environments (though 
 now they're in pseudo-3D) , punching the same buildings and eating the same people that you did 
 back in the '80s. Now, that style of gameplay simply feels punishingly repetitive, rather than 
 goofy and fun. But whereas the PlayStation 2 and GameCube versions of Rampage that were released 
 several months ago slavishly dedicated themselves to the same brand of repetitious button mashing 
 that the arcade games did, the new Wii version tries to futz with the formula by adding in new 
 motion-sensing controls. Unfortunately, these controls feel just as half-baked and irritating as 
 the rest of the game.  

          Rampage: Total Destruction wasn't a fun game seven months ago on the PS2 or GameCube. It's 
 even less fun now on the Wii.     

  The premise for Rampage: Total Destruction is as simplistic as any of the previous games to bear 
 the name. Giant monsters roam from city to city, busting down every building that comes into their 
 path so they can move onto the next block and do it all over again. Total Destruction toys with 
 bringing in a bit of a plot to the proceedings, setting up the creation of the game's various monsters 
 via a failed taste test of "Scum Soda," which mutates all its subjects horribly. But that story 
 never extends beyond the opening cutscene and is completely secondary to you busting tall buildings 
 as if they were chiffarobes or something. The three main monsters from the old games -- George, Lizzie, 
 and Ralph (a gigantic gorilla, lizard, and werewolf, respectively) -- are on hand for this version, 
 as well as a whole host of other monsters, like a Cyclops, a giant fishman, a giant squidman, a 
 big rock thing, something that might be a jackalope, and others. However, no matter what monster 
 you choose, you're basically playing the same character throughout. Each monster has a few specific 
 stats that supposedly make them better for jumping, running, or smashing, but the tangibility of 
 these differences is minimal at best, and the moves are the same across the board for every monster. 

  Those moves include, and are basically exclusive to, climbing up and punching, kicking, or stomping 
 buildings, picking up and smashing cars, picking up and eating people, and a few special moves 
 that can be earned as you spend more time playing as a specific monster. The basic controls for 
 these moves are mostly mapped to the Wii Remote. You can pull off some stomps and smashes by smacking 
 the remote up and down like a toddler with a toy hammer, and do wind-up punches by waving the remote 
 back and forth as if you were trying to hail a cab. The A button handles basic punches, B jumps, 
 and you move around the environment using the control stick on the Nunchuk. There are a few variances 
 on the formula, like combining jumps and motions to make new attacks, but basically, you hammer, 
 you wave, and you're bored. The attacks just aren't interesting, and the controls barely feel as 
 though they tie in to the animations you're performing.  

  Each block has anywhere between four and 10 buildings to bust up, and all the while, cops, SWAT 
 members, and military types will come after you with guns, helicopters, tanks, and the like. Apart 
 from the occasional breaks you'll need to take to bust up the helicopters and tanks, there's really 
 not anything more to the gameplay than simply breaking down buildings, moving to the next block, 
 and repeating the process over and over again until you've destroyed the entire city. If the game 
 gave you more attacks, or even more to do with the attacks you already have, it might be OK, but 
 it doesn't. The 2D-plane environments give the game a constantly recycled feel. You don't feel 
 like you're destroying a unique environment every time -- you feel like you're destroying the same 
 environment over and over again, because in effect, you are.  

  While the game really isn't much fun at all from a single-player perspective, there's enough multiplayer 
 action to make things at least a tad more interesting. Up to two players can play the main campaign 
 mode cooperatively, but there are also king-of-the-city and king-of-the-world modes available for 
 up to four players. Both are basically the same thing as the main campaign, but with the specific 
 goal of competing for the highest score. In any multiplayer arena, you can go up and attack fellow 
 monsters to try to knock them off their game, but there's not much you can do save for punching 
 in their general direction. No cool special attacks or anything for some good, old-fashioned monster-on-monster 
 violence. Again, the multiplayer only adds a bit of distinction to the overall experience. It's 
 just inherently more fun to destroy things with someone else in the room to help out. It doesn't 
 make the gameplay any less repetitive or inevitably dull.  

  Graphically, Rampage on the Wii looks just marginally better than its GameCube counterpart. The 
 game does a decent job of presenting itself, for what it's worth. The monsters look quite good. 
 They animate well, move nicely in the context of the environments, and are creatively designed. 
 The pseudo-3D environments also look nice enough. No high-res textures or special lighting effects 
 are to be found, but the buildings break apart well, and things explode nicely. Again, the worst 
 thing about it is that it basically looks like a GameCube game, with next to no added bells or 
 whistles. The audio is a little more hit-and-miss. There are plenty of monstrous roars, thunderous 
 smashes, and obnoxious belching, but it all repeats way, way too much. There just aren't enough 
 sound effects to offset the amount of repetitive action going on, leading to constant and incessant 
 repetition of the same annoying sounds. The soundtrack is pretty generic, though it generally jibes 
 with the action pretty well. Voice acting is barely present, but what's there works well enough. 

          Hammering and waving the controller around in repetitive motions is not an ideal replacement 
 for basic button mashing. If anything, it's just a good way to pull a muscle.     

  Perhaps the saddest thing about Total Destruction is its inclusion of the original Rampage and 
 Rampage: World Tour arcade games as bonus extras. It's not sad because they're bad emulations of 
 the original games; in fact, they're pretty spot-on. The problem is that being able to directly 
 compare these ancient games to the new one, and seeing so little forward progress between the two, 
 is just crushing. Not to mention that these old games simply don't hold up that well in this day 
 and age.  

  The fact that Rampage: Total Destruction was already a pretty mediocre game to begin with means 
 that a Wii version requires some serious revamping and widespread improvements to make it something 
 worthwhile. No such luck, it seems. Yes, you can hammer the Wii control up and down to make with 
 the smashing, but this act does exactly zero to make the game any more playable, or any less annoyingly 
 repetitive. At best, Total Destruction is a brief distraction. At worst, it's an obsolete relic 
 from too many years ago that now, on the Wii, seems even more antiquated and out of place.     
 
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Marx440
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 22, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  Just how bad is Total Destruction. As Bad as your mind allows you to comprehend. The graphics are 
 a Terrible mess and there is much room for improvement. The game may have 40 monsters, but thats 
 not even close enough to fix all the problems and motion control issues. Whats worse is that i 
 think they purposely made this game terrible. the reason being is because the wii's motion control 
 make it hard to even slam or jump spin. If you ever go to EB games and see this game, do not make 
 the mistake i did by buying it.
  I am saving your necks. DON"T EVER BUY THIS GAME. Please.
  Other than that nothing else is good about this game. nothing new and nothing exciting. Its' ugly 
 to look at and the story is just messed up. Save yourself by buying this game. the only reason 
 i bought it was for my brother. he was 4 at the time and even he did not like it one bit.
  thats my review. -Marx440 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DraugenCP
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  Total Destruction is the latest game in the relatively obscure Rampage series. Previous Rampage 
 games (bar maybe the first one for the arcades) were never famous for the critical acclaim they 
 received, yet have met with some form of success as the often outdated technical aspects were often 
 compromised by the incredible fun factor. Total Destruction is no different. With sub-par graphics, 
 primitive controls and a sheer lack of variation in a lot of areas, it still manages to generate 
 that old Rampage feeling, making for a very enjoyable budget title that doesn't take itself too 
 serious.
  
  Like always, Rampage revolves around destroying well-known cities as fast as possible, using giant 
 mutated monsters to level every building in town. Unlike in previous games, though, Rampage: Total 
 Destruction has 3D graphics instead of the primitive 2D ones we've gotten so used to over time. 
 The game even allows limited 3D movement, with some buildings standing in rows behind others, but 
 apart from that, and being able to smash cars and eat people on the foreground, the game still 
 feels a lot like its side-scrolling ancestors - too much, one might even say. The graphics themselves 
 are hardly something to get excited about either, which is not surprising considering this is a 
 port of a game that already appeared on the Gamecube and the Playstation 2 almost a year earlier. 
 Even for those consoles, however, these graphics look below average, let alone for a next-gen machine 
 such as the Wii.
  
  The fact that is game is a mere port also causes the Wii controls to be rather primitive. One can 
 immediately notice that the developers inserted the Wii-customized control scheme just because 
 they could, and it is therefore not surprising that every move you make with the Wiimote is eventually 
 just a long-winded alternative for pressing a button. Although the controls are primitive and not 
 really necessary overall, they aren't broken, so the game is no less playable than its last-gen 
 counterparts. Moreover, the Wii version has some interesting extras, such as 10 extra characters, 
 and the exclusive city Dallas, allowing you to seriously mess with Texas.
  
  There are 8 cities in total, which is far less than in any of the previous Rampage games, yet the 
 composition of the cities also differs from that in earlier installments. Instead having one city 
 per level, Rampage: Total Destruction lets you destroy multiple blocks in a city (usually 8-10 
 in total) , every block being a level. In the final block you face the boss, which is in all cases 
 some kind of machine (a tank or an aeroplane of some sort usually) created by the company which 
 produced the soda that caused people to mutate into monsters in the first place, and is trying 
 to obstruct you in your destructive purposes in order to prevent bad publicity. In the spirit of 
 the game, the bosses are mostly easy to beat, and you don't even have to beat them as long as you 
 still destroy all the buildings on their block.
  
  What does make the game a bit challenging and more lengthy, though, is the inclusion of a challenge 
 on every block in the game, usually consisting of you having to retrieve a number of items out 
 of buildings, or destroying or eating certain types of humans/vehicles. Some of these challenges 
 will gain your monster a skill upgrade when completing them, with there being five skills to collect 
 in total. However, even if the upgrades are the same for every monster, you'll have to earn the 
 skills separately with every one of them. Seeing as there are 40 monsters in total in the Wii version, 
 this activity can take up quite a while if you're planning on fully upgrading every monster in 
 the game. Moreover, not every challenge will earn you an upgrade. Most challenges will just earn 
 you an additional 5000 points to your overall score upon completion, and a lot of monsters (especially 
 the unlockable ones) have 1 skill that can only be earned on 1 specific block in the game. Tedious 
 as this might seem, it's certainly worth the trouble of at least upgrading some of your favourite 
 monsters. Skills such as the jump-smash, the super-punch, and the spin-jump can prove to be especially 
 helpful in dealing more damage to the blocks, thus having you end up with higher scores so you 
 can unlock more monsters. Other monsters can be unlocked by freeing them from capsules find in 
 buildings spread across the game, yet some monsters require you to free them whilst playing as 
 a certain character.
  
  All these extras and challenges, however, are only relevant to those who find enjoyment in playing 
 this game. Rampage: Total Destruction is very linear in terms of gameplay. If you've played the 
 game for 10 minutes you know exactly what to expect for the next 30 hours. Even the music lacks 
 variation. While the soundtrack is composed of some quite enjoyable rock-like tunes, there must 
 be about 6 of them spread over 8 cities, each consisting of up to 10 blocks. A few extra tracks 
 surely wouldn't have hurt the game, as even the menu music is to be heard again and again in tons 
 of blocks, revealing a sheer lack of effort in this area on the developer's behalf. 
  
  The overall sound of this game certainly isn't bad, however. On the contrary, many enjoyable one-liners 
 are voiced by the cities' inhabitants, radio reporters, Arnold Schwarzenegger-like grenadiers and 
 tons of other colourful and soon-to-be-eaten people you'll see appearing as you demolish their 
 beautiful city. The sheer addition lines such as 'you can't eat me, I'm a lawyer!' makes this game 
 stand out in the comedy department. In fact, where this game continually fails to impress technically, 
 the artistic efforts compensate a lot. Another key role in this is played by the great character 
 design. While there are 40 monsters in total, every single one of them has a unique look. There 
 are certain subcategories among the characters (squid-like types, primate-like types, etc.) , but 
 still a lot of the characters, even within those subcategories, have their own, unique feel, and 
 their own strengths and weaknesses.
  
  For those who do get bored with the main game eventually (which is not unthinkable as lots of players 
 will be chased away by its thoroughly linear gameplay) , there are a couple of other modes to occupy 
 themselves with. King of the City and King of the World let you compete against up to three other 
 players (friends or computer-controlled monsters) to see who can destroy the most blocks or cities 
 respectively. Then there's the Timed Run in which you have to destroy a city within a certain time 
 limit, optionally with the help of some other players. 
  
  Additionally, Midway was so kind to include a little extra for the Rampage fans: ports of the first 
 Rampage arcade game and Rampage: World Tour, the latter of which being previously released on the 
 Nintendo 64 and the Sony Playstation. While these games will probably not get you too excited, 
 it's a great addition for those Rampage fans who want to replay these old games again, and for 
 newcomers to see where the series' roots lie.
  
  The conclusion of my review is a difficult one. While the game is very linear, unvaried, and technically 
 inferior in many ways, the fun factor (probably the most personal and subjective aspect of a game) 
 makes up for a lot of this game's flaws. Being a fan of the old Rampage games (which were equally 
 unimpressive from a technical angle) , I happened to enjoy this game a lot, with its great variation 
 in likeable characters, its good humour, and its overall merry spirit (which is a remarkable achievement 
 considering your basic objective is to destroy the world) . Combine that with the low price tag 
 (the game was already priced at $30 when it hit the shelves) and the inclusion of two cult classics, 
 and I can't help but appreciate Rampage: Total Destruction for what it is. It's not a recommendation 
 in the sense that Total Destruction is more of a cult game than anything, so newcomers would be 
 adviced to rent this game first, and gamers who disliked any of the previous Rampage games ought 
 to stay clear of this one.
  
  
  Report Card:
  + great character design
  + good humour
  + the original Rampage game and Rampage: World Tour included
  + low price tag
 
  - bad graphics
  - incredibly linear gameplay with hastily ported Wii controls
  - too little variation in the music
  
  Score:
  73% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpunk96
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 28, 2008 10:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is a highly under appreciated release of a Gamecube/PS2 game. First off the two things 
 new to the Wii version of this game is 10 new playable characters, a new stage, and some awesome 
 new Wii controls. The Wii controls are simply perfect in this game and really fun. The Selection 
 of monsters and stages are really good and big. The gameplay is great and the music is pretty good 
 too. The difficulty is pretty easy right until the end were it get's somewhat hard. The only two 
 big problems with the game is that it get's a bit boring by the last level and the graphics are 
 kinda low end for a Wii game. The graphics don't look bad, but still. The game also comes with two 
 older and much more retro Rampage games as a bonus, which is pretty sweet. Both of the games are 
 awesome and fun to sometimes play. This game also plays really well with a friend. That's all there's 
 really to be said about this game. I suggest you rent this game and give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 19, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  Total bargain bin game! Rampage was a great game back on NES and the N64, but times have changed, 
 games have evolved, and there is no cool factor when it comes to this game!
  
  Graphics are decent and better than any of the previous versions, but the cities are the same thign 
 over and over and the repetitive nature makes it annoying as hell to play for long periods of time.
 
  
  You will play a city with something like 8 stages before it is cimpleted, but it is the same fighting 
 and bashing over and over until the city is done. Then on to the next city and do the same thing 
 yet again over and over. Your thumbs will hurt friom overmashing the same button again and again! 
 There is almost no wiimote sensing involved in the game, you might as well be playing with a wired 
 regular controller as you are pretty much playing like you would on the NES back in the day.
  
  One really cool thing about the game is that in the bonus seciton there are the older verisons 
 of the game! Played in badass NES styled graphics you can play the original game, and they also 
 have the N64 version on there as well, which makes it great to bring back memories!
  
  Besides the bring back of the older versions, seeing this newer version of the game is not all 
 that fascinating. There are way better games out there. I would suggest this as a bargain bin game 
 or a quick borrow from a friend, but don't get caught paying over $10 for a game like this, that 
 would be highway robbery! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boris_Fan_279
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 9/10
  Destroy, eat, unlock monster, complete challenges, upgrade monsters, beat up monsters, compete 
 with monsters, all that stuff. The gameplay is very fun and simple. There's 32 monsters for you 
 to unlock. You start out with 8 monsters, so that means there's 40 monsters you can play as. It's 
 the apocalypse as we know it! 
  
  Controls 9/10
  The controls are amazingly easy to use, but only if you have a nunchuck. The reason why the controls 
 didn't get a 10 is because there are two things that could of been used differently. And those 
 things are: The roar attack. You have to press A and B simutatiosly, and that usually leads you 
 to ether jumping or punching, instead of roaring. They could of made it so that you could roar 
 by pressing the Z or C button. The other thing is kicking. (while on the ground) they could of 
 made it so you could press the Z or C button, but instead you have to hold down on the control 
 stick and press A, which works, except for the fact that you cant aim where you want to kick easily.
 
  
  Graphics 10/10
  The graphics have truly been improved from the gamecube version. The graphics are very believable, 
 and there the best graphics from any Rampage game.
  
  Music 8/10
  Yes, we all miss the old menu and block completion music from the GC version, but I guess the song 
 was a little out of the style of the music. But other than that, the music is very well done, and 
 there all really easy to remember.
  
  Sound effects 9/10
  The sound effects are what you could expect in a game where you can play as monsters. Burps, farts, 
 crumbling, people screaming ect. ect.
  
  Plot 4/10
  Well, the plot is good at first, but once you beat it, it's like Midway just stuck a big middle 
 finger right at you. I wont tell you the ending, but I assure you, you wont be happy.
  
  Replay Value 10/10
  You will be playing this game for days. Beating this game with 100% completion 
 is a challenge, but you will have a heck of a time.
  
  Extras 7/10
  The extras are the original Rampage and Rampage World Tour arcade ports. As good as the games are, 
 they were badly ported over. The sound effects sound hollow, and sometimes go directly to a bunch 
 of glitchy sounds, and when you're done playing them, there's no music. The music is shut off in 
 the game, no matter how much you toggle with the volume, the music is off. The only way to fix 
 this is to reset the game. Another thnig that dissapoints me about the arcade ports is the fact 
 you cant save your high scores. Of course, you could just make a score sheet and wright them down 
 like I do.
  
  Rent or buy?
  Buy, definitely buy. Renting it would be a big waste of time and money. So just spend 30$ on the 
 game, and own it. Once you buy this game, it will be one less thing that could possibly lead to 
 a mid-life crisis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xzcxcxxczxc
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  The main game sucks you think a wii game would have good controls but it dosen't. The only good 
 part is the classic it rock controls rock and it fun. I sold this game because it's not worth 20 
 dollars. I BOUGHT BUAGHT A BURRITO FROM TACO JOHNS WITH THE MONEY! I could buy the classic for 5 
 dollars. So overall this game is bad. Don't spend your money please. Or you will end up going to taco 
 johns. please please please dont buy. They burrito was mighty fine good as you know im from texas 
 yehaa ride um cowboy. beans beans beans a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendarzFan
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 11, 2007 3:23 am PT
Review:  Rampage: Total Destruction is another one of those waste of time games . You go around smashing 
 buildings pointlessly with quirky controls especially if you don't use the nunchuck. Almost all 
 levels are the same except they have different buildings and get more challenging. The boss battles 
 are just pathetic, absolutely pathetic... The way you have to move your controller to whack random 
 crap around is just annoying especially when you need to do it fast for boos battles. I think the 
 only enjoyment out of this game you'll get are some of the special moves and the co-op play is 
 o. k... So in the end I'm basically saying you shouldn't get this game unless you're a long time 
 Rampage fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fizzlegloop
Rating: 3.1
Date: Aug 4, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game that my dad got for the wii. I tried it for like 2 hours (still in shock 
 that i played it that long) and got so bored i wanted to go play with lint. Im sorry but this has 
 got to be the worst game for the wii. It is so repetitive. The controls for the wii for the game 
 seem very useless and just make the game more annoying. The only thing that this game could pass 
 as is a oldies game for parents that used to like rampage and want to see whats its like for the 
 wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StillFreeTagger
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 26, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  I've played Rampage for years now. Liked World Tour and loved Universal Tour. When Total Destruction 
 came out I had to get it. Last year I ignored the negetive reviews and bought the game for the 
 Gamecube. I was satisfied. Then I heard it was coming out for the Wii with ten new monsters. Seeing 
 how I got a Wii for the holidays, I bought the Wii version. This is my review...
  
  Do not listen to what everyone is trying to shove down your throat. Total Destruction is an awsome 
 game! 40 monsters and eight cities that take time to destroy! Excellent!
  
  To begin, the story of TD revolves once again around Scum Labs. This time around they're selling 
 a soda called Scum Soda (oi) . In the NGC and PS2 versions, only 30 people tried it. In the Wii 
 version, 40 did and transformed into monsters.
  
  In the roster of these 40 destructive beasts are none other than Rampage veterans, George, Lizzie 
 and Ralph. The Wii version also includes Vern from World Tour and Boris plus Ruby from Universal 
 Tour. Its about time... Vern rules.
  
  The gameplay is simple. Destroy the city. Each city is made up of 8 to 10 blocks. You take it down 
 one block at a time. The Wii version adds one more city, Dallas. I wish Midway took more time to 
 add more, but this'll have to do.
  
  The graphics have improved from the GC and PS2 versions. They may look the same, but are a bit 
 more polished. Yes they are not of the 360 or PS3 variety, but they're good enough! They're cartoons 
 people!
  
  Audio in the game is ok. Now the civillians have things to say about you destruction of their fair 
 city. Backround music is upbeat, but not as good as the heavy metal sounds from World Tour and 
 UT.
  
  Controls I must agree are a bit frusturating on the Wii. However, if you get used to them, you'll 
 forget all about it. Just have fun.
  
  Total Destruction is not a bad game. You decide for yourself. Its not as good as the classics WT 
 and UT, but it gets the job done. The Wii version may be the best. With 40 monsters and a lot of 
 carnage, you can't go wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flaminator
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 18, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  This is a really fun game with a lot of levels and mutiplayer mode is with it too. You start out 
 on a street and you have to destroy all the building to get to the next street in the city. But 
 theres distractions to your health and fighting like SWAT and police. You either wack the helicopters, eat/throw 
 the police, or smash the pack of SWAT members. You can eat tourists and eat/throw cars. Theres 
 also a mini bonus involved and if you complete it, they give you a bonus of points or a new move.
 
  Its really fun and keeps going. Get this game if you really want! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sistomper75
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 7, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Rampage! What a game, I remember me and my cousins spending all our pocket money playing this on 
 a Saturday afternoon at our local arcade. The site reviews are a little harsh, yes the controls 
 take some getting used to and the eye candy may be compared to that of the GameCube, but to slate 
 the inclusion of the original versions is disgraceful. For it is those added elements that make 
 the purchase the more worth while and to change the game play would be an insult to the game, Rampage 
 is not about exploring or an adventure it's about sheer bashing fun. If youre young and looking 
 for a piece of gaming nostalgia or if youre looking for a present for your dad buy this game you 
 won regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aledem
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  Please refer to my GC version review: http://www. gamespot. com/gamecube/action/rampagetotaldestruction/player_review. html? id=309510
 
  
  My favourite videogame is back on brand new Wii and the action is more fun thanks to Wiimote !! 
 More news: more monsters, the graphichs (if possible) is more solid, brilliant colors! This game 
 is dedicated to everyone look easy fun in videogames, but this game is unique! Rampage is Rampage! 
 No exists a game like this! Now we want new sequels on Nintendo consoles!
  Please, my dear Midway: Rampage is a perfect match for a movie like Monster Inc., Madagascar style! 
 Rampage is a brand that represents the real videogames!! Do not count on gamespot review!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjog210
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  The story starts when your trying a soda called scum. It turns you into a monster who destroys a 
 lot of towns. These are all the towns in order. Las Vegas, San  
 Kong, and New York. When you start it's hard because your new at it. The game is easy if you use this 
 code zero seven one seven six seven. That code can let you destroy a building in one hit. Oh and 
 a other thing there's a code to have all monsters called one four one four two one. This is a very 
 good game, so you should buy it and remember have a lot of fun. This is the last thing it is $30.00 
 for the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKoop
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 6, 2007 3:59 am PT
Review:  Its an old one, but a good one, it offers a new fresh take on the old arcade classic. OK so not 
 much has changed to be brutally honest. But the fun factor is definitely there. Pretty much everything 
 on screen can be broken up from cars to buildings and even people!
  
  Graphically its not much of a improvement from the GC version but by all means its no pain on 
 the eye at all. Its still got the old school side scrolling but its all in 3-D now which does 
 work in a way. The characters however have heaps of animations and the screen can get quite hectic 
 which personally I think is really fun.
  Animations are fast, fluid and smooth which aid it along a little bit.
  
  There is a lot of 
 depth to the game in my eyes with over 25 characters there, which you can upgrade sort of like 
 an RPG (not really though) it offers each one new skills that can be used in various modes. Theres 
 plenty of fun and a widespread choice of cities to cause havoc in too. I was looking for a cheap 
 fix of something different when I bought this and I think I got it, there are a lot worse titles 
 out there compared to this old classic, never going to beat the original, but I cant get the arcade 
 machine in my room, so the Wii version will do nicely for now. I recommend this as a rental at 
 least; some good multiplayer options keeping you entertained at least for a night or two, even 
 for the price of it maybe one to keep just for a rainy day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GonzoGuy
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 7, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  Here's a short review for a short game. What to do with a $30 gift card? I wanted to get a new 
 game for the Wii, so I got this. After all, the Wii is a party system and this is definitely a 
 party game; some later boards you damn near need two players for to do a half decent job. Also 
 I can get nostalgic with the original; and some other remake. What do I like besides the price? 
 Smashing things with giant monsters (and they've added a whole lot more of them since the 80s) 
 who eat people. What's not to like about that? The controls make it simple and fun. Jumping is 
 one button ans smashing is another. The wiimote comes into play by allowing you to perform special 
 attacks, and you're also supposed to direct your monster with it somehow but I haven't seen that 
 work yet. Here's where I get into what I don't like about the game. The wiimote functions are very 
 hit and miss. Some special moves like the big smash (performed by raising your wiimote and bringing 
 it back down) work pretty well but grabbing (done by swinging to one side and pressing A) is a 
 pain and often requires a couple of tries. I only ever kick things by accident. Also the fact that 
 the action runs on another plane (instead of just left, right, up, and down you have to go deeper 
 into the block to smash all the buildings) makes it kind of difficult to kill flying bosses and 
 choppers as you have no points of refrence in the air as you do on the ground. Yea I wish they 
 spent some more time perfecting the virtual moves but I'm happy with my purchase and I think my 
 wife &amp; friends are too. If you're going to buy a cheap wii game, you may as well go with this 
 one but don't expect any sort of revolutionary change. It's more like a VR mutation brought on 
 by the new soft drink. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 30, 2006 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Ive always been a fan of smashing things while being a huge monster. And the choices of what monster 
 to be is huge. The three classic monsters, Ralph the wolf, Lizzie the dinosaur, and George the 
 ape are joined by over 35 other monsters to take down Scum Labs and anything that get in their 
 way.
  
  Gameplay 8- It's always fun to chuck buildings, stomp cars, and eat anything that moves. Although 
 the game does tend to get repetitive after playing it for an hour or so. The inclusion of two of 
 the arcade Rampages make the price of the game a good bargain.
  Graphics 9- I have the Gamecube version also, and the Wii version has noticably better graphics. 
 The monsters are a lot more detailed.
  Sound 8- The sounds are what you expect for punching out windows and making things explode.
  
 Value 8- A good game to add to that collection dedicated to parties where you can take advantage 
 of the multiplayer meyhem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havraha
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 28, 2006 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Rampage universally gets panned by critics. And I'm not sure why. I myself would agree that the 
 original arcade game was none too good, but the game simply improves in its various incarnations, 
 and for the amount of stuff you get, Rampage: Total Destruction is a good deal for the price of 
 a Gameboy Advance game.
  
  If you've played Rampage before, you know its basically a multiplayer game. Destroying cities is 
 fun and all, but destroying it with friends is all the better.
  
  Plot wise, Rampage doesn't exactly have a stellar track record. Rampage: Total Destruction does 
 make up for it by giving you a well done opening cut scene that basically tells you how the monsters 
 come to be, and gives you the obvious goal of not only destroying everything in your path, but 
 also freeing the other monsters locked up by the game's antagonists.
  
  Rampage: Total Destruction makes leaps and bounds over the gameplay of previous incarnations. While 
 the original arcade only allowed you to punch, jump, and eat people, Total Destruction includes 
 3-D walking, 3-D building climbing, picking up people and either eating them or throwing them, 
 picking up CARS and throwing them, and a whole mess of special moves that you can unlock by completing 
 optional sidequests.
  
  In addition to the 40-some-odd monsters in the Wii version of the game, the game is also improved 
 upon in content by the addition of the past two titles as bonus content: Rampage, the original 
 arcade game ... and Rampage: World Tour.
  
  The most important thing that has to be remembered when purchasing Rampage is that it is, in fact, 
 a kid's game. Everything about the game is cartoony, and I even think the level of onscreen violence 
 has been toned down from what it was in Rampage: World Tour (people don't get squashed into peach 
 colored puddles of mush like they use to) . The humor is for kids, the monsters are for kids, the 
 gameplay is for relatively smart kids, and the game is at its best when four kids are plowing through 
 various cities smashing and eating everything in their path.
  
  Anyone who tells you the controls are tacked on, doesn't know what they're talking about. The game 
 makes good use of varying the gameplay with both buttons and motions, and the game should be commended 
 even more for offering a single-wii-remote option of play for those who don't have enough nunchuk 
 attachments (although that single wii-remote config is kind of complicated and not very natural 
 feeling) . Lots of effort went into making this game make use of the Wii remote, its motion sensing 
 ability AND its buttons.
  
  All in all, Rampage: Total Destruction is the most in depth and complete take on a classic arcade 
 game that's entire point is destroying and eating everything in sight as an unstoppable killing 
 machine. Its a good budget game for kids, fans, and anyone who knows how to enjoy senseless violence, 
 and although may not be worth your money at normal game price ... its definitely merits consideration 
 at the low cost of 30 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RogerC44
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 14, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  The only thing fun about this game is that it has cool monsters but besides that this game is as 
 fun as reading a Paris Hilton autobiography (in other words this game sucks) This game is way repeatative 
 (rewinde and says the same word 3x) repeatative, repeatative, and repeatative. The controlls are 
 so stupid you'll notice your self scooping up air instead of eating humans just minding their own 
 buisness. There is no great sound effects. And putting your fists up and down can make you get 
 a cramp. So why does this game suck so much? At best this game is an obsolete thing that should 
 be put out of it's misery. At worst this game is a peice of crap! Two big thumbs down! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
