-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rapala Tournament Fishing
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/rapalatournamentfishing/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lots of different lures and gear should please fishing nerds.
 minimal load times.
 music is pleasant.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 All those lures quickly run together after a while.
 unresponsive controls.
 fish don't really put up that much of a fight.
 Wii's force feedback feels silly in big fights.
 lots of graphical quirks.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  5, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 4.0, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 5.7, 241 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: MagicWand
Genre: Fishing
Date: Nov 22, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The controller may fit the bill, but Rapala Tournament Fishing just isn't the big catch that virtual 
 anglers were hoping for. 

  One of the big complaints with fishing games of the past was the need to purchase a separate controller 
 to accurately simulate the mechanics that are such a big part of the sport. The Nintendo Wii's 
 unique control doesn't have that problem because the Wii Remote is a natural substitute for the 
 traditional rod-and-reel controller. Unfortunately, the unresponsive controls and monotonous gameplay 
 in Rapala Tournament Fishing, the first full-fledged fishing game to take advantage of the Wii 
 Remote, don't make it worth a cast.  

          Pole, check. Tackle box, check. Lazy friend in the boat who does nothing but criticize 
 you all day long, check.     

  Rapala has a number of gameplay modes to play through, including free fishing, arcade mode, and 
 time trials, all of which are as straightforward as their names imply. The most compelling mode 
 in the game is tournament mode. Here, you start out by creating a profile, picking an avatar from 
 a handful of rugged-looking types, and entering in various tournament events. The tournaments are 
 all grouped by type, such as weight challenges, length challenges, and so on. To move onto the 
 next tournament in the line, you'll need to finish in the top 10 of all the events in the current 
 tournament. The events are typically organized by fish species -- such as a largemouth bass or crappie 
 challenge -- and, for the most part, the lakes and rivers you compete in will serve up the exact 
 type of fish you want. In fact, only rarely will you haul up anything other than the exact species 
 of fish you're looking for, though the size or weight of the fish don't always fit to the event 
 requirements.  

  The controls in Rapala might seem overwhelming at first, but even nonfisherman will figure out 
 the mechanics pretty quickly. To cast the line, you hold down the A button, make a casting motion 
 with your arm, and let go of the A button near the top of your casting arc. Reeling in the line 
 is as simple as moving the Nunchuk in a circular motion or pressing the A button. You can move 
 the line either left, right, or back by moving the Wii Remote in the same direction and increase 
 or decrease the drag on the line by pressing up or down on the D pad on the remote. There are also 
 controls for driving your boat to various locations on the river or lake you are fishing. Both 
 the fishing and boat controls have an alternate scheme if you are unhappy with the default. For 
 the most part, the Wii's sensor picks up the more subtle motions of your hand; unfortunately, the 
 on-screen motions you make are quite noticeably delayed, presenting a strange disconnect between 
 your movement with the remote and what your angler is doing onscreen.  

  Once you've got a strike, it's a matter of reeling the fish into the boat, and while the controls 
 make sense mechanically their unresponsive nature makes for a pretty unsatisfactory experience. 
 While reeling with the A button or Nunchuck, you yank back the Wii Remote to pull the fish in quickly. 
 You'll want to keep an eye on the tension indicator at the top of the screen; it indicates how 
 much tension is on the line at any given moment. With bigger fish, you'll want to adjust your drag 
 in order to prevent the fish from snapping the line. There are other things to consider, such as 
 the action of your fishing pole (which determines just how much it will bend when the fish is close 
 to the boat) , which is only a big deal for the bigger fish found in the game. To bring larger fish 
 into the boat, you'll need to complete a small netting minigame that has you first move a net over 
 an onscreen fish icon then quickly enter in a button combination (such as 1, 2, B, A) to finally 
 haul the fish into the boat.  

  Beyond the quirky controls, the biggest problem with Rapala Tournament Fishing is that it's at 
 once too easy and too esoteric for either experienced fishing fans or newcomers to the genre. If 
 you've never played a fishing game before, you will likely be a bit overwhelmed by the sheer amount 
 of gear available to you from the start. There are different rods with varying action levels, different 
 lines with their own characteristics, and the lures... well, the lures are an entirely different 
 matter. Because this is a Rapala-sponsored fishing game, all of the lures in the game are Rapala-branded, 
 which is probably a good thing for outdoor sporting fans who are familiar with the brand. However, 
 for the newbie, this glut of lure models is incomprehensible at first, and the game doesn't do 
 nearly a good enough job of explaining (or even hinting at) when and why you would want to use 
 one lure over another. Granted, some of this can be figured out by trial and error, but a primer 
 on lure tactics would be a welcome addition to this kind of game.  

          While most of the controls in Rapala feel more or less like fishing, that isn't always 
 the case.     

  While experienced outdoorsmen will likely appreciate the true-to-life performance of the different 
 lures in the water and the sheer number of lures available, the game is far from the perfect indoor 
 counterpart for veteran anglers. All of the esoteric complexity in Rapala's tackle box is counteracted 
 by the ease of the game. Regardless of which of the three available difficulty levels you play, 
 the fish are biting in Rapala. The only difference is how long you wait for a bite and the specificity 
 of the fish/lure combination. Provided you follow your in-boat buddy's advice on where in the incredibly 
 small environments you should cast your line, you'll usually come up with plenty of fish. Furthermore, 
 the fish don't really put up that much of a fight. Sure, you'll snap a line every once in a while, 
 and a fish will occasionally slip loose of its hook; but, for the most part, if you pay attention 
 to your tension meter and the onscreen advice (such as when to move left or right to coincide with 
 the struggles of the fish) , you'll be just fine.  

  Because there's so little fight in the fish, and they're relatively easy to come by (provided you 
 happen on the right lure) , you'll likely be bored pretty quickly with the tournament events in 
 Rapala. While all of the events are timed, you can quit out to the results of the tournament in 
 many of the events after you've caught the allotted number of fish. A notable exception is the 
 "total" events, where victory is usually determined by the total number of fish caught or the total 
 weight. Here, you'll need to spend the maximum amount of time on the water to make sure your haul 
 is as large as possible. This means you'll also spend the maximum amount of time feeling bored. 

  The most notable aspect of Rapala's graphics is the tiny environments in which to fish. While there 
 is some decent visual variety to the lakes and rivers you compete in, they all share one thing 
 in common: You can usually get from one side to the other in less than a minute. To make matters 
 worse, once you've found a hot spot in the water, it usually doesn't run dry, so there's no need 
 to explore anywhere else. The game provides two views to choose from when fishing: a third-person 
 point of view from the boat and a more useful composite view of the lure and fish underwater, as 
 well as a side view of your fisherman. Using this view, you can watch out for on any interested 
 fish near your lure and, once the bite is made, keep an eye on the action of your rod. There are 
 also a good number of visual quirks under water. While the fish models themselves look fine, they'll 
 often pass right through the hook before taking a bite. Also, when reeling in a fish close to the 
 boat, the animation of the fish's struggle will noticeably skip, and the fish will often pass clip 
 through the boat's hull before you haul it in.  

          Eat it? Hell no, I'm mounting it!     

  While on the water, you're accompanied by a 
 guide who provides feedback on your various fishing activities, such as where to stop, the quality 
 of your cast, and advice on how to reel a fish. The actor who provides the voice work does so in 
 a nice conversational tone, but it isn't long before his feedback becomes repetitive. It's also 
 mostly inaccurate, especially his critiques of your casts; you can easily ignore his advice most 
 of the time. The other sound effects in Rapala, such as the splashes of fish leaping out of the 
 water during struggles or the occasional sound of wildlife in the background, are decent enough. 
 The music in the game is also pretty catchy but, like the commentary from the guide, it isn't long 
 before you've heard it all before.  

  In all, it's hard to see how Rapala Tournament Fishing will appeal to anyone. Its cryptic lure 
 lore will frustrate fishing novices; its diminutive environments and brain-dead fish will do the 
 same for experienced fishermen looking for a game that tests their skills. Game fans looking for 
 a different use of the Wii's control scheme will also likely be frustrated by its unresponsive 
 mechanics and tedious repetition. While fans of the nuts and bolts of fishing might enjoy the depth 
 and breadth of gear found in the game, putting it all to use in the water turns out to be more 
 frustrating than it is fun.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: iamsammy71
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game, I was really excited. I thought that it would be a great game on the Wii, 
 thinking it would be kind of like Wii sports. It was nothing like I expected. I saw a fish that 
 was about 50 ft away from my lure and then all of a sudden, the fish just suddenly popped up and 
 was on the hook. That really confused me. The graphics are horrible horrible HORRIBLE! Then I wanted 
 to go to the other side of the lake, I turned the boat on and I was trying to control it but I 
 kept on running into stuff even though I was turning the other direction. To top it all of, there 
 is the annoying guy that gives BAD advice on what to do and is INCREDIBLEY annoying! I played this 
 game for about 20 minutes and got bored. This game is one of the worst games I have ever played. 
 Do not even bother renting it, its a waste of time AND money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbmikkim
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jul 30, 2007 1:39 am PT
Review:  Fishing was never this dumb! I think this game is worth a buck, not 50!
  
  I expected more of a game with feel...
  
  Good graphics, smooth sound, horrible gameplay, stinky 
 value, and my experience made me want to never play a fishing game again...
  
  If your looking for a fun little fishing game to play... go to your local arcade! Im sure it will 
 have a better fishing game then this piece of garbage.
  
  The tutorial is helpful for only experienced players... since it's hard enough to just reel in the 
 damn fish. Your arm's get tired and you put this game in the back of your collection. Waste of 
 money and time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokeywaterz
Rating: 1.7
Date: May 13, 2007 9:31 pm PT
Review:  This is the second excursion my wife took into buying Activision games she thought I'd like. Both 
 have been great disappointments...
  
  In this particular game , the premise seems to be centered on how bored you can be to even call 
 this mediocre entertainment. There's no real challenge, no taxxing of skill or ability, and there's 
 absolutely no reason to keep playing . It's only slightly more fun than a visit to a dentist's 
 office...
  
  This so-called game is an indictment of Activision for sponging off crap and calling it a game.
 
  
  Next time, when my wife calls, offering to buy me a game, I'll tell her Anything that didn't come 
 from Activision . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawnali
Rating: 3
Date: May 3, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  After buying WII play and enjoying the sensation of feeling the fish nibble the line, got me in 
 the mood to purchase an authentic fishing game seeing how fishing season is fast approaching. what 
 a waste. This game had so much potential, but found a way to muck every aspect of fishing up. From 
 casting to reeling this game has nothing in comparison to any WII sport game. and to top it all 
 off all the lake are as big as a pond so driving the boat isn't any fun either. now this is as 
 politely as i can put it... WII PLAY fishing is better and that really sucks... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 4.6
Date: Apr 2, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  I was in rogers a week ago and saw this game I have never seen in my town so I got it right away 
 as I liked fishing games back in the day and with the wii I am like this should be awesome. Sadly 
 as soon as I got home I added this game to my games list to see a nasty 4.5 review and bad player 
 reviews. The player reviews are harsh but the games still bad. You use the wii mote to cast your 
 rode and press buttons to do everything else. You can equip the nunchuck to add a reel effect but 
 its just a pain after a few minutes to do. The lures in this game are all spinners and reel ins. 
 Theres no jigs, plastic baits, real bait, spoons, nothing but throw out and reel in. This gets boring 
 very fast. The fish also seem to hide all in 1 area and feels like your ice fishing having 0 fish 
 in alot of areas. Also the lakes all have like 2 to 1 fish in them?? What kind of lake is this? 
 If thats not bad enough, you can't really tell the fishes size from a distance so its all luck 
 on what size you get. To reel in a fish you whip the wii mote up and down and press button combo's 
 to use a net having larger amounts of buttons to press for the size of the fish. This game offers 
 nothing exciting but maybe tournment mode where you got key objectives. Fishing should be about 
 the free fishing mode and catching that big fish out of tons of others. This game has none of that 
 feel. The graphics are boring and the music suits fishing so I am fine with that. This game could 
 of been so much more, but instead I wasted $50 I could of used to another game. I can barly pick 
 this game up to play. Don't get this game, unless its on sale for way down, even then its still 
 a waste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trgraham
Rating: 1.4
Date: Apr 2, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  I received this as a birthday gift . . .
  
  I should have fully read the mediocer review here on Gamespot before I actually opened the blasted 
 wrapper . . Lesson learned!
  
  Save your $$ - Painfully unresponsive to the Controller
  Boring Gameplay
  A shame Best Buy won't take this junk back!
  
  Sadly, this review text requires 
 100 words. . but the game just isn't worth that many . . .
  
  Don't buy it . . . Don't buy it . . . Don't buy it . . . Don't buy it . . . Don't buy it . . . 
 Don't buy it . . . Don't buy it . . . Don't buy it . . . Don't buy it . . . Don't buy it . . . 
 Don't buy it . . . Don't buy it . . . Don't buy it . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DamianTV
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 14, 2007 12:30 am PT
Review:  This has to be by far the worst implementation of the Wii controller to date, and to add insult 
 to injury, this has to be one of the worst games I have ever played.
  
  You cant use the wiimote to control your rod, you have to hit A to reel in your fish, and forget 
 any sort of fun reeling in your fish which usually lasts until the next ice age, about all you 
 can do with the wiimote is steer your boat, which is completely worthless. Imagine trying to play 
 Gran Turismo with an Atari 2600 controller. They utilized absolutely nothing the wiimote offers 
 and what interfaces that are there feel like they are just tacked on.
  
  The graphical textures themselves were ok but the way the graphics were applied were absolutely 
 retarded. I can cut some slack because the Wii isnt as powerful as the 360 or PS3, however that 
 is absolutely no excuse for the poor way they put the graphics together. Audio. What audio? Its 
 like listening to dried paint dry even further. I could have done better with a 1800's phonograph 
 and made all the sound effects with my mouth, like the guy from the Police Academy. At least he 
 was entertaining. Gameplay: What gameplay? This game is as much of a practical joke on players 
 as fishing is to the fish. Here fish fish fish, I've got a nice yummy worm for you, heh heh heh. 
 I wanted to pull my hair out after less than 15 minutes of even trying to give this game a chance.
 
  
  Overall: Were these guys even trying? The programmers must have been out to create a game as quickly 
 as possible with the intention of watching it fail and using it as a tax write off. There was no 
 effort to make this game rewarding or compelling at all. The Zelda Twilight Princess with the wiimote 
 was absolutely addictive and pure common sense. Oooh the bobber goes down, jerk back on your line 
 to hook the fish. Now even if I did not have Zelda to compare this to, I'd have to compare it to 
 something, such as real life fishing. If fishing in real life were to suck as bad as this game 
 it would be an absolute wonder that fishermen didnt take out cases and cases of beer with them 
 while they go fishing. Oh wait... The idea of bringing in the challenge of fishing in real life 
 with all of its complexities and different lures, lines, fish finders etc is not a bad idea and 
 hopefully someday, some company will do it right, but Rapala succeeds only in capturing the feeling 
 of looking at a black and white photograph of a broken down Ford Escort as compared to driving 
 a Lamborghini Diablo in real life. Well not that fishing in real life is all that much fun anyway, 
 hence all the beer. Considering all of the categories, this is probably the only game I have ever 
 played that has absolutely deserved a 1 out of 10 in every single category.
  
  Maybe the programmers should have recommended this be an AO game because for it to be fun would 
 require a minimum of a 12 pack of beer before even reading the instructions, but this game is so 
 bad I dont even think illegal drugs would have helped this game. Its a shame, it had potential. 
 The source code for this game deserves to be at the bottom of the lake, along with any interest 
 I might have held in it. I want the 20 minutes of my life back that I spent even remotely thinking 
 this piece of trash may be worth my time. AVOID THIS GAME AT ALL POSSIBLE COSTS!!! AND SHOULD YOU 
 COME ACROSS ONE, FLEE IMMEDIATELY AND CONSUME LARGE QUANTITIES OF BEER!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_chewbacca
Rating: 2.3
Date: Feb 20, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Good: ...
  
  Bad: Graphics are appalling ever for the Wii; game play is extremely boring and slow; very little 
 explanation for a complex system; the overall quality of the game is complete trash.
  
  Rapala Tournament Fishing is a special game. Its a modern marvel to how a developing company can 
 shovel out such complete **** and throw it on the stands at Gamestop. Its just really a complete 
 put down to the gaming community, if they think gamers play these kind of games, they have another 
 thing coming to them. Rapala is just really a complete joke. Its not even really a game, all you 
 do is watch a pond while you wait for something to bite. When it doesn't bite, you try to change 
 your bait. This process may take awhile since they don't even tell you how to play. Just spam every 
 button on your remote until something pops up and your good. The only way you can catch a fish 
 is if you know the exact bait to use for the certain time, for the certain fish, for the certain 
 area. So you'll have to do some Wikipedia research to find out what type of bait the certain type 
 of fish is. But you don't know what kind of fish, so Wikipedia search what kind of fish are in 
 the area your on... But you'll have to know what type of area your in, so make an observation on 
 what type of water it is, the location, figure out what type of environment and knowing the 5 day 
 forecast for the area. Either you can do all that to catch a fish, which has no benefit, no reason, 
 no award, or you can simply NEVER touch this game.
  
  The graphics are... Well, let me put this down how it is. They aren't graphics. It just a bunch 
 of dull colored pixels mushed together and they put some colors in it and expect that to pass as 
 an excuse for graphics. And don't expect the sound to be good either. Its generic calm nature music 
 that is downright pathetic. Do not purchase this pathetic excuse of a game. This is just a marketing 
 ploy by Rapala as a pathetic attempt to raise their sales. This game is horrific. Do not even get 
 this game if it is $5.00 in the bargain bin. I cannot stress enough how much of a joke this pathetic 
 attempt of a game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgmoore7811
Rating: 3.3
Date: Feb 17, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Well what can i say a brand new wii and and a few rented games and then i play this S*** wow horrible, 
 the controls suck the grapics suck i mean the fish would like oghalf in the boat half out. Way 
 WAY TOO EASY. my 5 year sister got the biggest fish. I recomend this game only is u know someone 
 under 7 and loves fishing if not then dont go near it its just plain no fun. Dont waste ur time 
 plz. so plz dont wawste ur time rent a good game like wario or something, this game made me cry 
 by its horrible everything. Onkly reason its not a zero is cause its good for little kids. and 
 yes i have played it rented it thank god and evne if u love fishing dont get it its just that bad. 
 i almost forgot to say that the fishing in zelda is way way way better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omega397
Rating: 1.4
Date: Jan 15, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  After a 6 hour session of Legend of Zelda: TP fishing, this game brings down the wii to an all 
 time low. My aunt is a finishing guru and loves the wii (especially after she played wii sports 
 and TLoZ: TP fishing) . She thought that Rapala would be a welcomed game. When we started playing 
 this game we noticed that the assistant in the boat was she called lame . We both then noticed 
 that the boat steering controls were horrible. The camera would only move in certain directions 
 and we could hardly ever turn it around. When we finally got past the lame driver and boat controls, 
 she started fishing (which we thought would be the game's saving grace) she yelled out the phrase 
 WTF! Her lure was 10 feet in front of the nearest bass and magically the bass got it. Yes people 
 the fished was magically placed on the lure. To us it was a no brainer, this title is heading to 
 the dumpster. This is not a rent or a buy, you would be wasting money on both. There is even a part 
 where you do not have to have a boat, and yet this aspect still sucks. Your lazy assistant is still 
 there and mocks you at every turn. Now for those who view games from the technical stand point, 
 the graphics look as if the developers half-@$$ed it, and decided to use a psp model for it. Yes 
 the graphics are just that bad.
  
  The AI is not very responsive either. Like I said before the lure was 10 ft in front of the fish. 
 Also the it seemed the smaller the fish were fighting harder than the big ones. It also seemed 
 like the fish threw the hook every ten seconds.
  
  The camera was very spastic. Some points the camera would just catch the reflection of the water 
 and you could barely see the outline of the fish. the pros: (yes there is a pros section) the sound 
 was nice and everything was smoothe like butter, that's it. If you hve read this review in it's 
 entirety and you are yelling at me for not being a true fisher man, then I want you to ask your 
 self how long you fished in your life I have fised with my family since I was 3 yrs old.
  
  Overall Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess has the best fishing game out there for the wii right 
 now. This game is too buggy and the driver ruins the experience, the fish do not know when to bite, 
 and controlling the boat was way to hard with the wiimote. My aunt can't say it any better, TLoz: TP 
 is 1000 times better than Rapala. Rapala is not the fishing game for the fisher man inside of us.
 
  
  If you want to yell at me for this PM me and we will talk about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bolshoi_booze
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 22, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 8/10
  First off, the Wii was NOT built for graphics, it was built for fun. - If the Wii was built for 
 graphics it would have a much more powerful processor and GPU. Anyways, why do you need ridiculously 
 good graphics on a fishing game? Sure, there are some glitches in the graphics that should have 
 been improved which is the reason why I gave it a 8. Personally, I would never expect (even on 
 a future-gen console) amazing graphics on something like a fishing game.
  
  Interactivity: 7/10 [Averaged with Interactivity for Gameplay rating]
  There are a few sensitivity 
 problems in this game. Sometimes when casting, the Wiimote does not register the cast and you have 
 to recast. Also (rarely) does not respond to jiggles, pulls and tugs when reeling in a fish. But 
 a simple flick of the wrist to recast is no big deal.
  
  Use of the Wiimote: 9/10 [Averaged with Interactivity for Gameplay rating]
  Perfect implementation. 
 Would have loved Nunchuk reeling, but, you cant have everything.
  
  Sound: 6/10
  No music (although with this kind of game, thats somewhat of a good thing) except in opening credits, 
 definitely a negative. They should have done what Nintendo did on Excite Truck allowing you to 
 listen to your own music from an SD card. The other sound effects are fine.
  
  Difficulty: 5/10 [Averaged with Interactivity for Gameplay rating]
  WAY to easy to master reeling 
 in fishing. After playing for around an hour or two, you can pretty much catch anything that tugs 
 your line.
  
  Tilt/Re-playability: 6/10 [Averaged with Interactivity for Gameplay rating]
  Ok, this isn't something 
 you can play for hours and still be entertained.
  
  Controls/Responsiveness: 6/10 [Averaged with Interactivity for Gameplay rating]
  Definitely dont 
 agree with using D-Pad Up to power the motors and go in reverse. Should have used A or B for this. 
 Also, the code to land should have been better implemented. It registers your land as Failure if 
 your holding any buttons when it pops up.
  
  Remember: Gaming shouldnt be measured on graphics or sound. You could have a game with horrible 
 graphics and still be fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: binlandi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 8:38 am PT
Review:  This game is extreamly solid. I have been using Rapala lures my who life and have many favorites. 
 The cool thing is I can use the same lures I use in real life, they act and look and catch the 
 same as they do in real life. I like how you can earn new lures while going through the many robust 
 tournaments and lakes. On easy the fish dont put up much of a fight, changing the diffuclty to 
 normal or hard make it more realistic.. I think i broke a sweat more in this game then in real 
 life. The controller makes it a blast to catch fish. You can even change the view to above water 
 if you think you can handle it. Moving the boat is easy and casting is natural. Gamespot gives 
 this a 4.5 because its not hal. I give it a 10 because this is by far the best fishing game with 
 the most content of all times. If you like to fish and cannot wait till sumer to rip out bass, 
 buy this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: santiagohigh
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 9, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  I am an AVID fisherman.
  
  Graphics: Graphics are very plain, animation is nothing impressive and fish programming (AI) is 
 very average. This does not use stylized graphics like Zelda but I can easily tell the difference 
 between a muskie and a walleye following my lure.
  
  Game play: CASTING a real fishing rod is a little bit easier because you have feedback from line 
 tension and your pole. Casting in this game requires some more precision than fishing in Zelda. 
 Basically you hold down the 'A' button and pull the rod back and release after your wrist has moved 
 forward a bit. It took me about 20 minutes to get consistent 70 ft casts. Once in the water you 
 have a couple of options. One, you can hold the 'A' button and the lure will be reeled in at a 
 pace that will give your Rapala some nice action. Two, you can reel with the nunchuck. Three, you 
 can push the '-' button and reset to recast.
  
  BOATING is easy once you learn a few tricks. Point the Wii-mote at the TV and press up on the D-pad. 
 Once moving you can go left or right by moving tip of the remote and leaning the remote in the 
 direction you want to turn. It is like having the boat in the palm of your hand. Don't point too 
 far. I always have the remote pointed at the TV or very near. Play around a little, I like the 
 boating system.
  
  FISHING is pretty simple, floating lures float when not retrieved, fish bite. You can toggle between 
 underwater and boat view by pressing 'B'. I am disappointed that there are only Rapala crank baits 
 and similar jigging Rapalas. I would like to use other baits. There is no shortage of crank-bait 
 styles or colors to be unlocked.
  
  LANDING FISH is a little tricky. If you are not using the right equipment you will lose fish. When 
 the fish bites a hooking gauge will appear on the screen. The needle will move from left to right 
 then right to left, once it completes this cycle you will have failed to hook the fish and it gets 
 away. The object is to have your controller horizontal when the fish bites, like real life, then 
 jerk it vertical when the needle is in the green part of the gauge. This too takes practice especially 
 when you have a slow moving largemouth bass. After the fish is hooked, if you have the right weight 
 line and pole, the line tension meter gauge will show how much tension is on your line. You have 
 control of three things: 1) Position of your pole, 2) Drag tension, 3) Reeling. Holding you pole 
 vertical will act as if you are increasing drag tension, meaning increased tension on your line. 
 This will also happen if you move it left or right. Moving you pole left or right also affects 
 how the fish fights, like real life. When the fish runs lower your rod to help release line. I 
 have had a fish pull more than 20 feet of line in the game. If the fish is not pulling line, reel! 
 DO NOT hold the 'A' button to reel. I have landed some fish doing that but I have a much higher 
 landing rate using the nunchuck. You can also change tension on you line by adjusting the drag. 
 This is done using the up and down arrows on the D-Pad. If you are holding the rod horizontally 
 and have a small fish on you can bring it in quickly by raising your rod while reeling. Once a 
 LARGE fish is worn out and close to your boat a circle with a fish swimming around will appear. 
 Put your cursor on the fish and follow a random code of buttons listed at top. This will land a 
 large fish and will not appear for smaller fish. I like this part of the game having lost some 
 fish in real life while trying to land them.
  
  Other: Unlock and watch video 5, just my opinion.
  
  OVERALL I would rate this game 5 to 6 
 out of 10 for a gamer interested in high quality graphics, sound and game play. I might say 7 to 
 8 out of 10 if you really like fishing, and even then that depends on your personality. If you 
 can laugh at the voice over, smile at some poor animation and still enjoy going after that lunker 
 you may want to look into this game. I can see why others would rate it low. If you are reading 
 this remember I am bias. The interface is so different it is hard to compare to other fishing games 
 I have played. The Wii remote and nunchuck make this game better than most for me. The graphics 
 are average, the sound it average, the AI is average and the game play is average but fun. I think 
 they did a good job adding in most of the technical aspects of fishing and making it challenging, 
 educational and fun. It is fun to catch a fish similar to what I have caught in real life on the 
 same lure. I love to fish and this, in my opinion, is better than those handheld fishing games. 
 This technical aspect of this game is very average but I love it.
  
  Gameplay: 6
  Graphics: 5
  Sound: 4
  Value: 4
  Reviewer's Tilt: 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slurpicus
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 7, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is a love it or hate it. There are a lot of small quirks to the game and a graphical 
 glitch. But if you can over look these small issues this a enjoyable game. None of these issues 
 are so bad it makes the game unplayable, its just enough to make you go Hmm that is odd .
  
  A lot of the time the fish graphically freaks out and looks strange. The fish will seeming 
 flip very fast. The graphics are not wowing and are average. It is on the level of the average 
 ps2 game.
  
  The controls are simple . the only issue i had is with driving the boat. It takes a minute to get 
 used to. And the camera angle can get bad while trying to drive.
  the fishing is easy, and you get this button pushing mini game when you catching a big fish.
 
  
  The sounds well what is there is OK. the wise cracking pro occasionally says something that is 
 kinda amusing. But overall its meh.
  
  The positive is there is plenty of fishing spots and a lot of breeds of fish.
  
  Overall this 
 game has a lot of small flaws but easily can be overlooked if you want a fishing game. This is 
 a basic game that offers enough to keep this game fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zelkien
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 7, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  When I first purchased my Wii I was more excited about it than the PS3, which I also own. One of 
 my first comments after playing Zelda and seeing the fishing portion was that a fishing game would 
 be incredible. Take into account that I do not fish, but I've enjoyed the genre since the Dreamcast. 
 I'm not going to spend a lot of time going over every aspect of the game so heres a quick rundown. 
 Slow load times, awkward interface with menus, incredibly poor graphics, driving the boat is like 
 steering a Mario Cart except out in the open with nothing to interact with. Now onto the bread 
 and butter or better yet crumbs and soured milk of the game, the fishing portion. Once again the 
 graphics take all belief that you are really fishing away. The characters look horrible as well 
 as the 2D grass and enviroment. Casting with the controller is a chore and only seems to work properly, 
 with delay, half the time. Once casted your lure will simply sit in the water a couple or so feet 
 below the surface. No reallity whatsoever. Catching a fish is a bore as there is no intuitive interface 
 and once again all of you actions are delayed. After fighting with the fish, if you can call it 
 that, the netting of the fish does not seem like a good interface either. You aim a small net at 
 the screen in what appears to be a radar screen with a small oragne fish. It seems very hit or 
 miss as to if it evens matters when you hit the button to net the fish. The game just decides on 
 it's own. Rapala Torture Fishing is a poor example of a N64 game. The only thing they can boast 
 is that they released thee first fishing game. Stay away because the graphics, sound, interface, 
 and gameplay all lack any polish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swiftfeet8
Rating: 3.9
Date: Nov 28, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  I was very excited when I bought this game yesterday, because I love gaming and fishing (seemed 
 like a good match) . First off I should say that the graphics aren't the greatest. The underwater 
 views and the water in general are very nice, but the various other art in the game is lacking 
 a little. I'm not going to give this game a huge hit because of graphics.... hence the reason I 
 bought a Wii and not a PS3. I am more into games for gameplay. Now as far as gameplay goes, this 
 game left me disappointed. The controls clearly show that the game was a quick port to the Wii, 
 rather than redesigned to use the Wii's capabilities. My biggest rant is why do I have to drive 
 the boat with the remote?! There is an analog stick on the nunchuck, why not use that?
  
  The responsiveness of the remote to the game is bad. The game just doesn't give you the feeling 
 that you are fishing. I have yet to understand how to reel the line in. There are points where 
 I am reeling in and it suddenly stops, or my lure sits in the water 3 feet from my boat and for 
 some reason I can't reel it in.
  
  There are plenty of other things I could complain about with this game, but I will just give my 
 conclusion. If you are hard up for a fishing game that makes you mimic the fishing actions and 
 you are willing to put up with all of its short comings, then pick this game up. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
