-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ratatouille
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/ratatouille/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gameplay is fine for younger players.
 A decent roster of minigames for both single-player and multiplayer.
 Some solid voice work from the film's cast.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay is too simplistic for older audiences.
 Mission designs are repetitive and a bit dull.
 Not much story to be found here.
 Graphics aren't much to look at.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  3, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.3, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 110 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Asobo Studio
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Jun 26, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Ratatouille is a sufficient, if unfulfilling, platformer. 

  One of the key themes of Pixar's latest animated film,  Ratatouille , is not settling for junk 
 food -- literally. The hero, a rat named Remy, is always telling his brother to eschew eating any 
 random garbage he finds in favor of working to find something more flavorful, and ultimately, satisfying. 
 At the same time, the evil chef, Skinner, is conspiring to turn now-deceased master chef Auguste 
 Gusteau's image into a mascot for cheaply made frozen cuisine, a plot that the heroes of the film 
 have to thwart. So it's a bit disappointing and slightly ironic that the video game based on the 
 film has more in common with the cheap junk food the film decries than any well-prepared, savory 
 dish. Like other recent games based on computer-animated flicks, Ratatouille for the PlayStation 
 2, GameCube, PC, Xbox, and Wii is a simple, kid-friendly platformer that loosely ties into the 
 plot of the film and is generally unchallenging and, ultimately, unsatisfying. It's not an awful 
 game by any means, and young kids might get a kick out of a few of the minigames and story sequences. 
 But for those with a more refined palette, Ratatouille is a paltry dish.  

  Both the film and the game tell the story of Remy, a rat living in France who dreams of becoming 
 a master chef -- a dream that doesn't quite jibe with the others in his rat colony, especially his 
 father. Unlike all the other rats, Remy won't eat just any piece of garbage lying around; he pines 
 for more unique and expansive flavors, and actually has the crazy idea to try  preparing  his food 
 with herbs and spices. So it is with great fortune that circumstance brings Remy to Paris and the 
 doorstep of the restaurant once owned by his favorite TV chef, Gusteau. From here, the film launches 
 into a brilliantly funny plot about Remy and a hapless garbage boy, Linguini, teaming up to create 
 a master chef tandem. The game addresses a few of the key points from the movie, and even includes 
 a few cooking sequences where you control Linguini in some Cooking Mama-style minigames. But for 
 the most part, the game skips over any potential spoilers and keeps its focus on missions involving 
 Remy and his rat-colony buddies stealing food from various Paris locations.  

           Ratatouille is about as standard a platformer as you'll ever find.      

  Each location 
 is a large world to explore, though most of the missions are set up fairly linearly, so exploring 
 doesn't net you much more than some occasional collectible stars -- of which there are hundreds scattered 
 throughout the game. Missions are standard platforming fodder. You jump and swing around various 
 boxes, platforms, tightropes, ledges, and other pieces of the environment to get to areas that 
 hold specific items, bring them back to other characters, or use them on other specific objects 
 to unlock the next objective. Occasionally these missions are broken up by the occasional cooking 
 minigame, as well as some chasing and sliding sequences. Chase bits have you running from one of 
 the human characters as they stumble around, trying to snatch you up. Sliding bits have you sliding 
 down some pipe, chute, or other sloped surface while collecting stars along your path and avoiding 
 sliding off the edge into oblivion.  

  While a few of the minigames and sequences have a spot of originality to them, much of Ratatouille 
 is pure formula. The mission designs are simplistic and a bit repetitive, and the controls are 
 designed for such ease of use that it's hard to imagine anyone with two hands having much issue 
 playing the game. Jumps are forgiving, traversing narrow ledges requires no skill (as you're basically 
 glued to the ledge if you press a button as you jump toward it) , and you can basically magnetize 
 yourself to small platforms and tightropes (by pressing the same aforementioned button) . Thinking 
 out your path to the goal is about the toughest thing on offer in Ratatouille, and even that doesn't 
 take much effort.  

  You'll breeze through the story mode in afternoon if you're dedicated enough, but on the plus side, 
 there are more minigames to be found outside of the main story. Some of these are single-player 
 only, and some are simply variations of the sliding, chasing, and cooking from the main game. However, 
 there are some multiplayer games to be played, like races, item-collection competitions, and a 
 variant on king of the hill. There's also a multiplayer championship version of the single-player 
 minigames where you can compete in cook-offs and sliding time trials. None of these games are exactly 
 substantial, and they wear thin after a few plays each, but they're a welcome addition to what 
 would otherwise be a very lean game. There are also some unlockable movies, pictures, and other 
 film-related bric-a-brac to unlock as well, if you're into that sort of thing.  

  There's not a great deal to please the eyes or ears in Ratatouille. Voice acting is about the best 
 thing the audio has going for it, including some performances by actors from the film, like Patton 
 Oswalt and Brian Dennehy. Unfortunately, there's not a whole lot of it, and very little of the 
 dialogue is anywhere near as clever or amusing as what the film offers. Graphically, the game displays 
 a few nice touches. The environments seem appropriately large, and some of the animations, especially 
 those of Linguini as he hacks together various dishes, are mildly amusing. But everything else 
 in the game has a bland look to it. Remy's movements are stiff, most of the human movements are 
 even stiffer, and environmental detail is minimal. There's little difference to speak of between 
 any of the older console, PC, or Wii versions of Ratatouille. The PC version predictably looks 
 the sharpest, and the PS2 version looks the dullest, though the differences are minor all around. 

           Minigames, chases, and sliding sequences do a bit to break up the monotony of the standard 
 missions.      

  There are also some slight control differences to note between versions. The PC version requires 
 a decent gamepad to play properly, and the Wii version dabbles in motion controls. You don't have 
 to do much in the main game besides waggle the remote to attack enemies and steer the camera awkwardly 
 by holding down the C button and pointing with the Wii Remote to drag it around. The minigames 
 also make use of the Wii Remote, specifically the cooking minigames, where you'll peel potatoes 
 and fold crepes by making various motions. With the exception of the camera movement, these controls 
 are basically responsive and implemented well enough.  

  And that's the thing about Ratatouille -- everything it does is done well enough to function, but 
 never beyond that. It's edible without ever being especially tasty. It's the sort of game that 
 will satisfy a younger fan of the film for a few lazy afternoon hours, and then be forgotten about 
 immediately afterward. It's hard to justify paying between $40 and $50 for any version of such 
 an ultimately disposable game (the PC version is, at least, going for $20) , but if your kid is 
 desperate to relive Remy's adventures for him or herself, Ratatouille isn't a bad game to rent. 
 And if you're old enough to feel embarrassed whining to your parents about buying you a game based 
 on an animated film, you're officially too old for Ratatouille, and should just skip it altogether. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  There we were, all ready to sleep-play our way through Ratatouille, nonchalantly slip in a few 
 film tie-in clichs ("Does no justice to the source material"; "Seems to have been rushed out in 
 time for the film release"; that kind of thing) and then give it an entirely dismissive, offhand 
 50-or-so%. But every once in a while something lovely happens, and a game comes along which conspires 
 to trip up seen-it-all-before games reviewers. Which is a good thing, obviously.
  
  It's certainly not about to redefine the platform genre, or even the film licence one, but it breaks 
 the recent run of poor movie spin-offs by being thoughtful, fun (more so if you happen to be in 
 the game's younger target audience) and not broken.
  
  The first impression isn't that brilliant. It looks like a rat's dinner. Playing as Remy, the rodent 
 hero of the game, you explore the sewers, streets and kitchens of Paris as you try to realise your 
 dream of being accepted as a top chef, but unfortunately the setting makes the game look rather 
 bland, while some really murky textures make it look like a sub-GameCube title. The visuals don't 
 push the Wii in any way.
  
  No Kitchen Nightmares
  Ratatouille's strength lies in the solidity of its platforming. If you've played any sort of game 
 which requires you to jump, run or collect and deliver items, you'll be familiar with much of what 
 Ratatouille has to offer. Whether it's avoiding an angry chef's Gordon Ramsay-like temper by sneaking 
 through his kitchen, shooting down sewage pipes or beating enemies with a swish of your tail, you'll 
 be at home, if slightly jaded, with the action on offer.
  
  But the tightness of its control system (you use the Nunchuk most of all, with the Wii Remote given 
 over to handling the majority of mini-games) and the variation of the level design means that your 
 attention will be held throughout. Animation is slick and satisfying, with a weight to Remy and 
 the world he explores.
  
  So it's good value, does what it sets out to do and doesn't come across as the poor videogame cousin 
 of a high-falutin', big-budget blockbuster. It's unoriginal of course, but it's fun - and we'd 
 rather that than the other way around.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShyEmpress
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 11, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  I did buy this game used for ten bucks and I'm really glad that I did. It's so cute, you press 
 the b button so that you (the rat) can smell what's going on and where to go. There are little 
 side missions, and a few times I even got stuck. I had to read the book it came with to figure 
 out how to paddle out of whirlpools and that I needed to balance/wobble on a ball to crush insects. 
 There are chilli bombs and stars to collect and a couple of pages of mini games. The music is great 
 and I think it's so cute. It keeps me pretty busy and I'm an adult. Yesterday I chose to play ratatouille 
 rather than Okami. What can I say? I just like it!
  
  Everytime you pass a level you get some points and then you can use those points to open up secret 
 worlds or play minigames that are really cute. The only one I've played is one where you are making 
 a soup and the guy tells you what vegetable to put into the pot and you choose it and throw it 
 in, it's timed. There's also a little circuit game where you have to be quick in differentiating 
 the a and b buttons in the right order. 
  
  You get to jump on levers and fly through the air, float through the sky using umbrellas and jump 
 on spinning air vents, escape from dogs and cats, there's a lot to do here. 
  
  I've only played a few hours, and I think I'm about 20% finished. It's been great so far.
  
 
  For ten bucks, really worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prez_Pikle_24
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  I think this game is great even the graphics. This game is grewat for probably younger kids between 
 4 and 12 after that it could seem to be boring unless ofcourse your like me a 15 year old who loves 
 the most childish things in this world then you would probabbly like this game alot and should 
 check it out. I think even those who have played these kinds of games before no matter how old 
 should test this game this game has a short time in beating all the primary missions but wil ltake 
 you longer if you wish to succeed in buying everything and collecting everthing and even doing 
 all the fun side missions along the way of your primary goal. This game is how most games should 
 be just right in difficulty the only problem i have is how i play video games a fair bit and this 
 is set for a younger age group and the first level was just to hard and i htought unbeatable till 
 i beat this level on my probably 8th hour of playing or even possabbly longer, this mission consists 
 of using the boating technique they had just tought you and mean while you must try to avoid rocks 
 barrels trees and most of all the part that always kills you the whirlpools, once you are stuck 
 in these whirlpools there is no way out so if you get to close you must restart from the begging 
 of that level which is a fair distance. If they wish to make another version of this game and keep 
 the whirlpool i hope they will change that you can't get out of it or even space the whirlpools 
 far enough apart so that you can get through quicker because not only are you trying to dodge stuff 
 you got to keep up with your rat friends and your brother and if you get to far back you get to 
 restart once again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2007 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game did not get a very good rating and I think the rating it got is unfair! This game 
 has great graphics and wonderful sound. The game play is great and you get to do so many things. 
 You are the little Rat from the movie and you go to a bunch of different places where you pick 
 things up and sneak by dogs and cats. You also get to climb a lot and walk on ropes, slide down 
 tubes and much much more! I know sometimes games based off movies are hit or miss but please give 
 this one a try because it is a Hit! This game is so much fun and everyone in the family can play. 
 Once you start playing it is very hard to put down. I really think anyone who gives this game a 
 try will like it and it is worth buying. Not sure.... Rent it first but it really is one of my 
 fave WII games! Rats Rock and so does this game. Trust me it really is that good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grigoj
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 19, 2007 2:59 am PT
Review:  Its alright, not that great...
  
  
  
  dont buy it, rent it first.
  
  dont buy it, rent it first.
  
  dont buy it, rent it first.
  
  dont buy it, rent it first.
 
  
  dont buy it, rent it first.
  
  dont buy it, rent it first.
  
  dont buy it, rent it first.
  
  dont buy it, rent it first.
  
  dont buy it, rent it first.
 
  
  dont buy it, rent it first.
  
  dont buy it, rent it first.
  
  dont buy it, rent it first.
  
  dont buy it, rent it first.
  
  dont buy it, rent it first.
 
  
  dont buy it, rent it first.
  
  dont buy it, rent it first.
  
  dont buy it, rent it first.
  
  dont buy it, rent it first.
  
  dont buy it, rent it first.
 
  
  dont buy it, rent it first.
  
  dont buy it, rent it first.
  
  dont buy it, rent it first.
  
  dont buy it, rent it first.
  
  dont buy it, rent it first.
 
  
  dont buy it, rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrandLapin
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 11, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  I would never have bought this game after reading the review but I am very happy someone gave it 
 to me for my birthday. Its great fun, has nice graphics and a lot of variety. The normal mode is 
 indeed quite easy but you can set the level of difficulty higher. I actually like adventure games 
 where you can have fun moving forward instead of having to retry forever difficult obstacles or 
 wander endlessly to find some hidden object. The levels are large and well drawn. Music and sound 
 effects are great. Some of the mini games are a bit boring and uninspired but you quickly move 
 on to something else. Funny and cute, I love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RidersDX
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 28, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  That's the last time I'm buying a game with a low score. Ever brought a game that GameSpot doesn't 
 like too much but you like it alot. That has happened to me a few times. It'srare for me to agree 
 with GameSpot on a bad game though. Ratatouille is not bad. Nor good. It's okay. That's how I would 
 put it. Ratatouille is another game based on a movie. So, the score would obviously be low. But 
 that isn't the case for this one. It's all about a rat named Remy that dreams of becoming a chef. 
 Strange dream for a rat eh? So of course he runs into many problems trying to fulfill it. One day 
 though, he lands in Paris in a kitchen. He sees some soup and finishes it up. But then a guy comes 
 over and tries to get him. Then one day, they meet again and they make a deal so as long as Remy 
 cooks for him, the guy wouldn't chase him. So there's a start to fulfill Remy's dream.
  
  So the controls are very simple. You think since it's on the Wii it would get many motion controls. 
 Meh, not really. The only real motion control during the platforming is making a small swing with 
 the Wii Remote to attack. That's it really. The true fun lies in the mini games. Which are much 
 funner then the platforming ones. Some make good use of the Wii Remote actually. But ignoring the 
 mini games, this is another game with little use of the Wii Remote.
  
  The platforming sequences are what take up most of the game. The first level has you going through 
 a tutorial. Then you ride on a cookbook like a boat. This uses some motion controls and is quite 
 fun. Too bad that is the only time you use a boat like thingy. Then, the next levels are like this. 
 Do the things three rats tell you to do, then do a few mini games and then run away from a human. 
 In my opinion, that was a stupid move. That just makes the game even more dull. The game is just 
 an unoriginal platformer. The mini games help rise the gameplay to a seven though.
  
  The mini games are what make the fun really come out of this game. There are some basic pointing 
 games but also some games that make awesome motion controls. My favorite one is the one where you 
 chop potatoes. You first move the Wii Remote flat in a circle to cut the skin off the potato. Then 
 you strike the Wii Remote down like a knife to chop it into pieces. This is the most fun you'll 
 have in the game. Though, some mini games have you only pressing buttons but they're still pretty 
 fun.
  
  Graphics are shamefully okay. I was expecting something better from the creators of Battle For 
 Bikini Bottom. But they screw up the graphics. Oh well, Heavy Iron Studios did seem to lost their 
 touch ever since they made The Incredibles: Rise Of The Underminer. But I guess I can say they 
 had to rush the graphics to make it in time for the release date. I say graphics aren't important 
 but I was expecting better from the team.
  
  Sound is the best thing in this game. Voice actors are taken right from the movie to help voice 
 the game. They're great voice actors too. They fit the characters perfectly. Not the best, but 
 they get the job done. The music int he game is pretty decent too. It follows the theme of the 
 game quite nicely with the perfect music for the game. Even if you hate slow French music like 
 this, you've gotta admit they did a good job.
  
  Overall, is Ratatouille a rent or a buy? Good question. It is most definently a rent. Ratatouille 
 is a fun game, but you'll get bored and not want to bother doing all the things after completing 
 all the levels. I really can't believe that the movie is exactly like this. This game gets a 6.9/10 
 from me. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
