-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rayman Raving Rabbids
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/rayman4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Rabbids.
 Lots of quirky, offbeat minigames that make good use of the controls.
 More Rabbids.
 Plenty of legitimately funny humor.
 So many, many Rabbids.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Minigames tend to repeat the same formulas a bit too often.
 Multiplayer is rather limited for a party game.
 Some unfortunate graphical blemishes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 19, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.7, 54 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 3,343 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montpellie
Genre: Party
Date: Nov 14, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
More than just Mario Party with a different mascot, Rayman Raving Rabbids makes great use of the 
 Wii technology to create a bizarrely enjoyable minigame collection. 

  One style of game that seems like it won't be underrepresented on the Wii is the party game, if 
 the Wii's launch lineup is any indication. In Rayman Raving Rabbids, Ubisoft has taken its popular 
 Rayman platformer franchise and turned it into a party game. There is a major single-player component 
 to Raving Rabbids; however, this single-player game doesn't use any of the traditional Rayman gameplay. 
 The entire package consists of different minigames, with many layered throughout the single-player 
 game and also built out into multiplayer. Fortunately, this structure works just fine. The bulk 
 of the game's 70-odd minigames are clever and inventive uses of the Wii's motion-sensing technology, 
 and the game's completely off-the-wall slapstick humor stays fresh and funny all the way through. 
 It could have used more in the way of multiplayer support, but that quibble aside, you'll find 
 plenty of amusement in Raving Rabbids.  

          It might have Rayman in the title, but the real stars of the show are the adorably bizarre 
 raving rabbids.     

  When Raving Rabbids opens, Rayman is having a picnic with some of his globox pals. Suddenly, the 
 happy picnic is interrupted by a violent rumbling. This turns out to be the tunneling of several 
 rabbids -- vacant, buck-toothed bunny creatures that apparently want to take over the world. Rayman 
 and the globoxes are kidnapped, and Rayman is forced to entertain the masses of rabbids by performing 
 in gladiatorial combat. Of course, gladiatorial combat in this case means playing a variety of 
 silly, utterly random minigames for hours on end.  

  The premise is a flimsy one, but it's a good-enough way to get you into those dastardly minigames. 
 Every single minigame in Raving Rabbids takes advantage of the Wii's motion-sensing technology 
 in some way or another. Trying to list them all would be an exercise in excess. To toss out a few 
 completely insane examples, one game tasks you to use the remote to draw over an outlined image 
 on the screen, which then creates some kind of food for a hungry rabbid, like a can of sardines, 
 or perhaps a baseball; another is basically a game of whack-a-mole, where several rabbids sit inside 
 multiple bathroom stalls, and you have to repeatedly move the remote pointer back and forth across 
 the screen, shaking the Nunchuk to close the doors as they pop open; yet another is a Dance Dance 
 Revolution-style musical sequence where you use the remote and Nunchuk as drum sticks to hit in 
 time as various dancing bunnies dance onto the stage and hit timed markers; and another still is 
 a hammer-throw minigame where you spin the remote around, while onscreen, Rayman violently spins 
 a cow -- not a hammer -- around and around, attempting to time the release to hit the playing field 
 and gain as much distance as possible.  

  Suffice it to say, there's a lot of variety to Raving Rabbids' gameplay. Most of these games are 
 short and designed for bite-size chunks of action, and that's largely to the game's credit, since 
 some of the games require more strenuous use of the controller than others. Of course, not every 
 game in the bunch is a winner. Some are arguably too short to be much fun, and others don't use 
 the remote in a particularly precise or intuitive way. These are more aberration than the norm, 
 though, and the majority of the games are at least amusing, if not hilarious.  

          The dancing minigames are some of the best fun you'll have in the game, due in no small 
 part to the totally insane soundtrack.     

  And that seems to be more the focus of Raving Rabbids. As generally fun as the motion controls 
 are, the comedy of the game is what sells it. The rabbids themselves are almost exclusively responsible 
 for this, as they are, without a doubt, hysterical. They're adorably designed, with their dumb 
 stares, high-pitched shrieks, and a penchant for taking comedic bumps. For some reason, they're 
 totally obsessed with plungers and will often use them as a weapon against you. The best parts 
 of the game, both from a gameplay perspective and a comedy perspective, are the first-person rail-shooting 
 missions that take more than a few cues from on-rails light gun games like The House of the Dead 
 and Time Crisis. Each stage is themed after one thing or another, like an Old West ghost town, 
 or a creepy cemetery, and the bunnies often take after these scenes, coming after you with cowboy 
 hats and plunger six-shooters, for example. Or, sometimes, the bunnies just go in totally random 
 directions, like the Splinter Cell-styled bunnies that sneak around, wearing Sam Fisher's token 
 night-vision goggles. All the while, you're guiding an aiming reticle with the remote and firing 
 off plungers at advancing rabbids. You can even grab hold of them if they get too close to you 
 and fling them back at their bunny brethren. These sequences are a great bit of fun, even if they 
 do repeat a few of the same gags a few too many times.  

  In fact, the single-player mode tends to get a bit repetitive when you get into the later stages, 
 because the game starts tossing in variants of the same minigames you've already played. The process 
 of getting through the single-player game also has a very lather-rinse-repeat kind of progression 
 to it. Each segment is broken out into four available minigames, at least three of which you have 
 to complete to unlock the final game, which is usually one of the first-person shooter sequences 
 or a race of some sort. You keep going through these chunks of games over and over again until 
 you've beaten it, and that's about it. That'll take at least a few hours, but once you're done, 
 you probably won't want to go back to it.  

  It's good, then, that the game supports the ability to go back to individual games you are rather 
 fond of, as well as multiplayer. To be clear, not every minigame in Raving Rabbids can be played 
 in simultaneous multiplayer. Many of the games are sequenced multiplayer, where players take turns 
 and try to get the highest score, and others are exclusively for two players. However, the good 
 news is that the ones that do work simultaneously are quite fun when played with friends. Sometimes 
 the directions for the games aren't clear, specifically in explaining how a game differs in multiplayer 
 versus single-player, but this is one of those games where fumbling around like an idiot often 
 leads to inadvertent fun. And it's not like anything this game does is complicated.  

          What do you even say about something like this?     

  The rabbids may be an adorable 
 bunch, but Raving Rabbids' graphics aren't quite as pleasant. They're good enough for what the 
 game tries to do, but for all intents and purposes, this looks like a decent GameCube game. There's 
 no progressive scan support of any kind, the textures and lighting are sort of bland, and we noticed 
 some really ugly scan lines appearing over certain sections of the screen, often where the remote's 
 pointer happened to be moving around. However, on the flip side, Raving Rabbids does have a lot 
 of visual charm, simply because of the character design and the way it's animated. The rabbids 
 are just so bloody adorable, and the way they constantly fall all over the place, run around like 
 screaming lunatics, and generally do silly stuff, it's hard not to fall in love with it all on 
 some level. The game also does some nice stuff with level designs, creating some colorful scenery 
 that backdrops the action nicely. Ultimately, while the game's no technical masterpiece, the style 
 does a lot to make up for those shortcomings.  

  The audio is on a similar level. There's not much that's impressive here, but the cheery in-game 
 music and the rather strange but totally captivating licensed soundtrack (with versions of "Misirlou," 
 "Girls Just Want to Have Fun," and "La Bamba," among others) do a lot to keep things interesting. 
 The totally wacky screams of the rabbids are also oddly amusing. Normally stuff like this comes 
 off as grating, but whoever did the audio for the rabbids totally nailed it.  

  Rayman Raving Rabbids succeeds because it finds creative and very funny ways to make the Wii's 
 motion-sensing technology work for it. It features a nice variety of games to play with, and it 
 stays entertaining thanks to some great humor. Here's hoping the rabbids find their way into many 
 more games in the future.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (282 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: alextiming
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 11, 2009 6:56 am PT
Review:  I can't state how much I hate this game! My wife and I bought this with our wii and after several 
 days of playing it only got to the 2nd area. The game is extremely hard and frustrating, and not 
 the good frustrating. We've tried playing separately, together on a 1 person stage (1 aiming the 
 other shaking the nun-chuck) , and we've had our little (7-9 yr) siblings try. All attempts failed. 
 And because of the game developers' choice to lock the multiplayer modes until you play the single 
 player mode, the game is completely and utterly useless.
  
  I wish there was a way the developers could feel the pain we've felt! Did they not play the game? 
 Did they think this is fun? We finally sold it to game stop for like $10. I would recommend a hammer 
 to the face sooner then recommend this series of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mprezzy
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2009 6:08 pm PT
Review:  How to describe this one...
  
  It's a niche game. I found it funny- in parts. My teenage daughter finds it hilarious. She likes 
 silly comedy and rabbits, so I got the game for her pretty cheap.
  
  It has good points and bad. Some of the mini games really are hilarious. Unfortunately, most are 
 locked away unless you endure the story mode. I'd really rather not, but luckily she is. 
  
  The rabbids look and act very much like Spongmonkeys (Google it if you don't know) . They're 
 kind of a one-note joke, but if you like that joke, then you'll like the game. 
  
  The graphical presentation is mediocre to bad in parts, but surprisingly good in other, small spurts. 
 Some of the games respond to the motion function better than many Wii games I've tried.
  
  The sound is strange, unique, and sometimes funny. Nothing jaw-dropping or eye-popping, but it 
 fits with the game well.
  
  Is it classic gaming? No. Way. Might your child laugh endlessly with it, while you find it a guilty 
 pleasure? Possibly! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicrocks96
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I just got the game and the Wii earlier today for Christmas! Who! Oh wait. I'm supposed to say 
 Wii! Well let's go on to the story. The story is about these frogs being captured by these bunnies... 
 big, bad, bunnies... um, it's realy hard to explain. Then after the video, you're in this arena, 
 and you go into this tunnel that leads you to a minigame.
  I think the funnest and most hularious one is were you have to deliver this pressent to this rabbid 
 before it explodes. It's very funny.
  
  What I like about Rayman Raving Rabbids is that the minigames are fun, I like the graphics, and 
 I pretty much like the gameplay.
  
  What I don't like about this game is that some of the minigames are kinda hard.
  
  But lastly, 
 Rayman Raving Rabbids isa great game for the Wii Consle.
  
  My score. 8.7: Great
  
  GFHOHN GFDNJH JGDHFIU0 HGIDUFZK JIGHUB IRFGFJHUI FJGHU JVNF VOKNV G JGBNDHF JGHBND JGF CVKNMXL 
 K XVBMK FGHLCVF FKINM
  FCGVBNJKOL FVKIBPOMN PFX; BM GBOMJ P; FLBJM FGJKH FJDHKG JHKF JGSHKF 
  
  Gamespot Rules! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MariJoe007
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Yes, Rayman is back with the most crazy rabbids ever. He gets kidnapped by them and plans his escape 
 by the "events" they have at the stadium. These events are actually the key of the party games. 
 I think that it's at its best since the Wii was just beginning to come out. It has some of the 
 weirdest party games, but those rabbids are just too funny to ignore. If only you could actually 
 be a rabbid in this one. Well that's in the sequel. Rayman is also the only person you can be. 
 Good thing he has so many costumes to tell the difference. I love these rabbids; they have their 
 most famous yell and their unique charm. I think that the most fun party games are the shooting 
 games. Its so hiliarious watching all those bunnies being hit by plungers. That's why there is 
 also so many games for anyone to enjoy and have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdude5678
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 27, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  What can I say? This game is just plain awful. The graphics are atrocious, the humor is not funny 
 at all, and it's just plain stupid. The mini-games are not fun. I really was excited for this game 
 back in 2006, and asked for it for Christmas. Well, I got it, played it for about an hour, and 
 traded it for a great game, Twilight Princess. This game is horrible! I have no idea how anyone 
 can enjoy this piece of crap. The rabbids aren't even funny, just embarrassing. I tried to play 
 this game and enjoy it, but I still didn't find anything worth playing. There isn't really even 
 a story. Rayman is having a picnic and he and his friends get captured by rabbits. Wow. A drunken 
 hobo who hasn't even seen a movie or read a book could come up with a better idea. This is just 
 horrible, horrible, horrible stuff. I can't see why people buy this. This game runs at 30 frames 
 per second. That's awful! Just skip this piece of overrated crap. This game is comparable to a 
 piece of bull crap infested with maggots, who then crap out the crap they've already eaten. That's 
 how bad this is. Skip this turkey this Thanksgiving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steph10892
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving rabbids is an extremely fun game with innovative mini games. But that's all it really 
 is a bunch mini games compiled together with no real story to go along with it. Basically you play 
 3-4 mini games every round and get to go through the bigger gates and get once again another mini 
 game with no backing. It also seems as if they rushed into making it because they repeat many of 
 the mini games such as the dancing one. I mean extremely fun but it repeats itself excessively and 
 with the same 3-4 songs. As well as being extremely short it lacks cutscenes and story. Alright 
 let's get to the positive part. It is a fun game, if you like the mini game time of stuff such 
 as mario party and wario ware, personally I love the first person shooting at the end of most of 
 the rounds. It contains Great games such as closing the bathroom doors before they open all the 
 way, racing, memory, etc, etc. I guarantee you'll like at least one of the mini games. Wonderful game 
 but way too short and not enough back round. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djthebandit
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  I love this game on the Wii. It's very interactive, and you really have the feeling you are in 
 control. The rabbids are crazy too, and regularly make us laugh.
  
  We love the plunger shooting game... and several of the other mini games are great too. The dancing 
 game we had some difficulties with in the beginning, but after a few tries we got the hang of it.
 
  
  We never really finished the game, we always got too distracted doing the games we loved. And some 
 of the games are really hard to actually finish, so we decided to ignore those. But the games that 
 are doable, are definitly worth checking out this game.
  
  If you have a Wii, I think this is a fun game to get. It's diverse, lots of mini-games, and you 
 can laugh too.
  
  The only dissapointment is that you can't really do multiplayer. I think the rest has been said 
 in the review of gamespot, it's pretty spot on!!!
  
  Check it out if you can! You will like it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decoy415
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  I got this game based on the Gamespot score. I loved Mario Party and Wii Sports. So I was looking 
 for more party games. This one had by far the highest score. But it was a total letdown. Most of 
 the games just weren't that much fun. They were kinda funny and quirky. But it just didn't have 
 the same appeal as the other games.
  
  The humor is dark, quirky. Which is cool at first. But it isn't really my kind of humor I guess. 
 It didn't come off to me the way I think it might to others. I laughed a few times.... more of 
 a chuckle actually.
  
  I think part of it had to do with the bigger game. With Wii Sports you are playing a longer game 
 with a definite winner. With Mario Party you are playing a board game, and someone will eventually 
 win. Here you are really just picking up mini-games and playing. It doesn't have the same payoff 
 and feeling. I did not enjoy this one.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostofluigi
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 13, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  The Rayman franchise has taken a turn from the platforming path and into minigame collections and 
 it has followed the path pretty well but it sometimes does stray from it. 
  
  First off, the graphics. Grpahics are very nice giving the game a nice look.
  
  Now for the storyline. Very, Very 
 well done, to say the least. It has the best humour in the world. Rabid Rabbits seeing Rayman compete 
 like a gladiator? Oh yes, my friends, oh yes.
  
  The minigames themselves.3 simple words. Best.. Humour Ever.. in the entire universe. Tears will 
 stream from your eyes, you will pound your fist on the floor, and clutch your stomach seeing how 
 funny these minigames are.
  
  
  Now for the negative part. The minigames are good but the motion controls are really repetitive 
 and I wanted to see some variety. Single-Player Mode is short and only takes you 5 hours. I would 
 like to have seen more minigames becuase there were only seventy and they get old after a while.
 
  
  To conclude, Rayman Raving Rabbids has a good number of redeeming qualities but it does have a same 
 number of bad qualties also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macabre190788
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids, man, how can I describe it? You know what? I can't, you got to play it for 
 yourself. It's a strange, bizarre party game with insane rabbits. The rabbits are called "rabbids". 
 Yes, rabbids. And they are awesome, these little, cute, violent, hyperactive characters are the 
 true stars of this game. But wait a minute, isn't this a Rayman game? Yes and no. Yes, he's in 
 it, no, this isn't a typical Rayman platformer. It's not even a platformer. As I mentioned earlier 
 it's a party game, with no platforming whatsoever.
  
  The first couple of hours are some of the most entertaining ones I've spent playing a video game. 
 The motion controls are put to great use here, and you'll have lots of fun slapping, kicking and 
 shooting the wild rabbids. The story mode is nothing special, Rayman has been captured and needs 
 to escape by competing in various minigames. That's about it. But you'll play through it, if only 
 to unlock some cool extras. These include different costumes and songs you can listen to. When 
 you're done with that, you can put your skills to use in multiplayer.
  
  The minigames are varied and some of them are pure genius, others are boring as hell. But the majority 
 of them are pretty good, not to mention funny. Some are actually incredibly difficult though. I 
 mean insanely difficult. Especially some of the later ones are unbelievably frustrating. Cursing 
 and yelling is almost inevitable. There's no lack of challenge here. After completing 3 out of 
 4 minigames in the story mode, you'll encounter a shoot-em up minigame or a race minigame. The 
 shoot-em up sections are definitely among my favorites. 
  
  When you're playing some of the good minigames, you'll have a great time. Multiplayer is fun as 
 well, but it could've been better. Rayman Raving Rabbids is still easily worth a purchase if you 
 like party games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendofan404
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Ok Rayman enters the Wii field in an attempt to please us once again... i have to say he did a pretty 
 good job. You play as Rayman and you have been captured by a large group of crazy-ass rabbits. You 
 play constant mini-games that will have you cursing at your T. V screen in no time. The mini-games 
 are somewhat fun but can be irritating at first, but don't worry you'll know what to do through 
 repetition. The game also features a multiplayer mode in which four of your friends can play in 
 crazy games with you. Some of the games make no sense at all but hey its Rayman! If you have a wii 
 flip a coin is all i can really say unless your the person that slams there controllers into the 
 ground in anger don't get it, it requires lightning fast speed and quick eye's. The game has a solid 
 story, All and all its a fun yet annoying game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  In the game you are Rayman and you try and stop the Rabbids from attacking the land and you get 
 captured by them. Then you do some minigames they get harder and harder farther in the game. 
 
  
  The good is that there are awesome minigames and you can make your own customized Rayman and you 
 can listen to music from the music minigames.
  
  The bad is that there should be more minigames and they should be a little easier though.
  
 
  Overall I rate this game 9.5 outta 10. I think you should get this game because it is a wonderful 
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tireyo643
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids is a good game that definitely has its hilarious moments! The game has great 
 mini-games, although some games are quite cheap and repetitive. Rayman in this game does not seem 
 to be the center character, the Rabbids are surprisingly! The Rabbids is what makes this game a 
 bit more enjoyable to play and they add an interesting twist to the franchise. I give Rayman Raving 
 Rabbids a 7.5 because I feel like that there is something missing. The game has a good choice of 
 songs, but the songs are not necessarily everyones cup of tea. The shooting game is great, but 
 I would rather have more control of the character than just having a fixed frame on just one location 
 then it moves on once you plunger all the Rabbids. Rayman Raving Rabbids is again a good game, 
 but it does not have what it takes to be a great game. You'll have a great time playing this game, 
 but it gets old after awhile once you see and play the mini-games over and over again. However, 
 this game should not be avoided just because of its shortcomings. You will come back and eventually 
 play it later. Rent this game first to see if you want to buy it sometime! Otherwise if you don't, 
 you'll be missing out on all the fun and the hilarious moments that the Rabbids has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimjam54
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  When I first started up Rayman Raving Rabbids, I chose story mode, entered my name, watched the 
 opening cenimatic and found myself inside a huge coliseum. There were 4 different glowing doorways 
 and a huge gate in the middle. I decided to take the middle left doorway. The title of the game 
 was bunnies don't know what to do with cows. It told me to swing the wii remote above my head and 
 as I did this a cow on a chain started spinning. When i got to a good speed I pressed B and the 
 cow was launched going about 80 yds. I knew I was going to like this game. With a collection of 
 over 70 quirky mini games and 15 different unlockables, story mode is just the beginning. Once 
 you complete the mini game in story mode, you unlock it in score mode, the multiplayer version. 
 The object of score mode is obviously to score as many points as possible. There is also challenges 
 available after you complete story mode that are a collection of games that you have to get the 
 best possible score combined. I would highly recommend this game for anyone from a hardcore gamer 
 to a casual one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShyEmpress
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  I bought Rayman Raving Rabbids a few days ago and I am addicted. I love this game. I got it on 
 sale, and was excited about that, so it was definately worth the price. I bought it used for ten 
 bucks. 
  
  This game was good right from the beginning. It didn't take a long time to learn how to work the 
 mini games, and before each game the instructions - along with a rabbid moving the nunchuk or remote 
 or both in the manner that you would have to - make this game so easy to play. And fun to play!
 
  
  There were times when I would be grinning, all by myself, as I played. The graphics were pretty 
 good and the mini games were so diverse it kept me interested. Of course, as you pass levels, the 
 mini games are simply different variations of what you've already played, but it's still fun.
 
  
  The songs in this game are cool, and the more you play the more songs and outfits you get. 
  
 
  This game gives you a feeling of understanding and belonging! By this I mean as you play you feel 
 sucked into the Rayman Raving Rabbid world and that is a good thing. It's upbeat and makes you 
 move.
  
  This games uses wii controllers well. 
  
  Get it!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-Crazy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Alright, so this game is not the most amazing game ever, but it is pretty dang awesome. I got it 
 used from Gamestop about 2-3 days ago and do not plan on returning it. 
  
  The storyline is a bit lacking, it doesn't really have much of a story at all, really. The entire 
 game strictly consists of mini-games, which is probably the reason why it's only $20. You do control 
 Rayman while you're inside your cell, and also when you are in the area in between mini-games. 
 But that is really all you do, walk to where you want to go (of which the only choices are your 
 mini-game history, your progress towards your goal, songs you have earned, outfits you have earned, 
 and the door to a trial of 4-5 games) . This aspect of the game is basically a more welcoming alternative 
 to a standard menu that you would scroll through. although the games are fun, there are a lot of 
 repeating titles, such as there are like 8 different shooting games that are the same thing, but 
 just different scenery and a different order of enemies. There are also a lot of mini-games that 
 have sequels, which are just the same game but with a little twist.
  
  However, the game is definitely fun. The game's slapstick humor is actually pretty crude (this 
 game really should be rated E 10+) , considering some of the mini-games involve pulling creepy worms 
 out of a bunny's rotten teeth, re-closing the doors of port-a-potties that the bunnies forgot to 
 lock when they went in (you actually see them sitting on a toilet and you can hear their grunts 
 haha) , using a hammer to bang on the head of bunny that has obviously been previously beaten up, 
 and many more that follow these lines. I usually cannot appreciate this sort of slapstick-ness, 
 but I think the mini-games are actually really funny. Once you beat story mode, you can unlock 
 videos and storyboards by beating the high scores for each mini-game. 
  
  The games are fun when you first unlock them, but this game could definitely get old fast if you 
 do not play with friends. Multiplayer mode is pretty fun, you can take turns with one remote or 
 register up to 3 players besides yourself if you have enough remotes. (Many of the games also require 
 a nunchuk, a wireless nunchuk is definitely recommended for this title.) If you don't have anyone 
 to play with, i would suggest you rent it first, or at least buy it used from gamestop so that 
 you can take it back. If you already have a bunch of games and just want some more variety, this 
 game is truly unique. Most of the controls take great advantage of both the nunchuk and the remote. 
 Even for the games that don't have really unique controls, they are just as addicting as the others 
 becuase of their hilariously crazy ideas and goals.
  
  Although the game does not have a ton of depth, it really is a lot of fun. You probably want to 
 go for something that does have a bit more depth for your first Wii game, but if you have a big 
 family or just a lot of friends, you will have surely tons of fun with this game no matter what.
 
  
  If you play this game, you'll surely see something, actually, a lot of things, that you have never 
 seen before in a game. I guarantee It will make you laugh out loud (or at least it will make you 
 say, oh my gosh I can't believe I actually have to do this!) . However, I do say that if you do 
 not plan on playing a lot with other people, or if you have no other games yet, just rent it first 
 and try it out (or buy used from gamestop, they let you play it and return it withing 7 days) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo3ForMe
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Sheer dread went through my body when I received this game from a mate. It looks like a game I 
 would shove in my closet and never even unwrap.
  
  Thank-fully however, I did, and I am not only surprised but somewhat addicted!
  
  The mini-game 
 structure is excellent, with original, very fun and sometimes quite challenging games that are 
 easy to learn and hard to master.
  
  Raving Rabbits is chock - fully of great comedy, my favourite scene being the Cooking minigame 
 where you draw a shape of a food item, for the rabbit to eat. This is supplemented with great humour 
 as the Rabbit gobbles the food like a maniac, looks around with wide eyes and jumps up and down 
 in such a great animated fashion.
  
  The only downsides is that after a few levels, mini-games do get repetitive. Not only that, but 
 the selection system for multiplayer games is a bit fiddly, and really puts an unnecessary hold 
 on the fun.
  
  Still, I simply love it. It proves it, don't judge a book by its cover! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deckiesrule
Rating: 7
Date: May 26, 2008 2:43 am PT
Review:  This is a very cool little party game. I picked it up because my sister in law had the second one 
 and it was cool. The game is basically all minigames and the storyline is a little slim. I think 
 that a few of the games are a little rediculous and some are very hard and take many repetitions. 
 I hate trying the dancing games and sometimes think it would be 100x easier if I could use the 
 buttons instead of shaking the Wii remote and nunchuk. Grrrr bunnies love to dance..... must kill 
 bunnies.
  
  I have played through four days of the game and have gone back through and played some of what 
 I have unlocked. I would like to have more two player interaction- that is why I buy party games. 
 I don't want to play a game like this one by myself. 
  
  I think that there is a certain charm to this game even though I find a lot of it to be incredibly 
 annoying. I think that most people would have more fun with it than I have. I just don't have a 
 very high aggravation tolerance when it comes to bunnies I guess.
  
  You might want to rent it first though to give it a try before buying. I have also noticed that 
 the 2nd installment got a lower score here at Gamespot. not sure why. I played them both and found 
 the second to be a little more fun. But maybe didn't get far enough into it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonfly110
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 19, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is okay at best. Now, I know that I may be missing something here because almost all 
 of the critics are praising it for its originality. However, I personally think that it is just 
 a desperate attempt to get Rayman back to life. I mean, the game has almowt no story to speak of 
 except for the beginning and end of the game, and almost all of the minigames are way to hard for 
 the Wii remote. One of the only pluses of this game are the fact that the costumes are so creative. 
 However, other than that the game is very bland and just attempts to hold your attention. Now, 
 I do know a lot of people who do like this game, so if it honestly does sound like a good game 
 to you, than go ahead and try it just Rent it first. Oh yeah, also there is almost no world at 
 all in the game, all you do is wake up in the game, go through a door and begin the minigames 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegamemonkey
Rating: 7
Date: May 19, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids is a fun, fairly sized collection of minigames. With a sense of humor that 
 will keep you chuckling for hours to come. There is not much of a story line in Rayman Raving Rabbids, 
 but the basic idea is that the protagonist has been captured and is being forced to play minigames 
 in a Roman style arena. With a few exceptions, the controls fit the minigames really well. I don't 
 think I've ever seen so many uses for the Wii remote in one game. The soundtrack is okay, with 
 copyrighted songs that tend to get on your nerves after a while. The downside to this game would 
 be the graphics. They look blocky and have a last generation style. In conclusion, Rayman Raving 
 Rabbids is a good party game with an outrageous Twist on traditional Rayman games that has better 
 game play than graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ripper_TV
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 11, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Caution! This review relates exclusively to Wii-version.
  It is a really nice game to play. Or rather compilation of minigames. :) Most brilliant thing about 
 it - multiplicity of offered games; the only uniting thing for many puzzles included is crazy rabbids 
 (which may be annoying at times) . 
  Story mode takes less than 10 hours, it took about 7-8 in my case. The only game I didn't like 
 was bothering on-rail shooter, saving baby Globox - it lasts for tooo long, while little amusing.
 
  
  This one is out on almost all main platforms, but what I really can't comprehend is how it can 
 be exciting to play there, even with X360 graphics (which, of course, brings no difference to the 
 the gameplay) ... Because the very second best card of RRR is its unique Wii-control scheme. It's 
 implemented very good, it's very fun to spin a chain with a cow ( :) ) with your own hand or jump-rope, 
 twisting wiimote and "tossing up" the nunchuck.
  No online multiplayer, but allows up for 4 people to play on one screen, which is fun.
  
  Conclusion: 
 fun to kill time with friends. Also helps to get distracted from "serious" games.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: beepyou34
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids is not just another party game. It actually makes a party game fun. All of 
 the mini-games are fun, but it's a shame that they didn't make the multiplayer more fleshed-out, 
 because this is such a fun game. They have made it so that you have to unlock mini-games in multiplayer 
 by completing them in the single-player mode. All of the mini-games make use of the Wii motion 
 controls, but some of them are frustrating to complete. This game is incredibly fun, providing 
 non-stop laughs along the way. The graphics are not great, but they get the job done. The game 
 gets you moving with its many fast-paced mini-games, and there are a few mini-games that get your 
 blood pumping. It also has a very unpredictable setup, even though the mini-game types are repeated. 
 Rayman Raving Rabbids proves that party games can actually be fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Langy_01
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  The graphics are good here in a cartoonish way so nothing to moan about. Rayman is armless and 
 legless just like the Mii's you will see in Wii Sports.
  
  The single player mode is excellent where you will sometime only spend a few seconds on a task 
 (sometimes rather disapointing) and on others it will take several minutes.
  
  The game is not easy for young children all the way through and can even take several attempts 
 to clear for some who can do it.
  
  There is a way of making it easier for the youngsters in that if you complete the levels first 
 then they can play the levels on score mode where they just select the game to play. In this section 
 you will find lots of extras as well.
  
  As our first proper purchase of a Wii game this is loved by all the family. You will certainly 
 be looking for some easier less energetic tasks on the arms after you have to do a bit of running 
 or milking the cows!
  
  Excellent use of the Wii controller, just what the game was made for where no other games console 
 can really compete.
  
  There is a slight flaw on the UK / Euro version of the game in that where you have to kick some 
 radios to make the Rabbids dance and then kick them you can only seem to kick so many times. Switching 
 the Wii settings to 60Hz resolves this one so at least you can still play all the way through.
 
  
  Check out some of the users videos as they are what made me decide to buy the game, so good one 
 site as you made my life easier in deciding a game.
  
  Not sure about classing it as a party game though. Still need to play the multi play games as yet. 
 It certainly is on a par with Wario Wares Smooth Moves with the game style. The better thing is 
 that you don; t get the Japanese look through it.
  
  I paid 20 for this in Argos which you can't moan about so not only is it good its also cheap probably 
 because the second has been released.
  
  Reviewers class the 1st as a better single person game and the second as a better multi-player 
 game. You decide I will if I get to play the second one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TobiasFunke1
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  This game is just weird. I dont know what people like about it because it is really boring and 
 has stupid minigames. Most of the mini games are totally pointless and arent the least bit entertaining. 
 This game would probably only be fun if you were high on cocaine but i dont do drugs so i guess 
 this game isnt for me. I mean why would you want to throw a cow or shoot plungers at rabitts? I 
 could see that being fun for a 3-year old child but not anyone older than that. I cant even imagine 
 how that could be fun to anyone older than 3. Rayman Raving Rabbids is a cheaply and efortlessly 
 made game. The people who made it were lazy and didnt take any time to think whether this game 
 would be fun or not. Dont ever buy it because it will be the biggest waste of 20 bucks. Go spend 
 the money on a bag of candy because it will be more fun than this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thepinkpig
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  If you're a Wii player, and haven't yet heard of this game... WHERE HAVE YOU BEEN!?
  Some people complain that "there is no REAL story mode!". Yes, I must admit, this is true. Who 
 needs story mode with this much fun? Basically, the whole game is mini-games.... not just mini-games 
 though, there are extremely fun, and random mini-games. Hurdling cows, waving your arms to the 
 beat, drowning bunnies with carrot juice, and shooting bunnies in the face with plungers are all 
 mini-games in this game! It sounds really easy, and it is at first. The game gradually gets harder, 
 and it takes a few trys to get the hang of each mini-game. It gets so addicting when you get SOO 
 close to beating the mini-game... you can lose by the milisecond. After you master the mini-games, 
 you can't stop playing them! This game is "Just plain fun" and addicting! 
  Once you buy it, you will be proud you did, and each time you invite your friends over who maybe 
 don't play video games, they will be amazed at just how fun a video game can actually be. I know 
 mine were... :D Everytime they come over they ask me, "Hey Caitlin, can we play that one bunny 
 game?!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5nake3yes
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  The review pretty much hits the nail on the head so im not going to repeat it. However I will say 
 that everyone in the community should ignore Alaarajab's reviews. I mean come on, you say the game 
 is great then give it 5.5/10, I took a look at all the other reviews and they are all the same, 
 copied text and a rubbish score. For solo play I own a 360 for multiplay I have the Wii and this 
 is the sort of thing that anyone at a party or just popping over for an hour or so can play, my 
 wife loves it, my family love it and my 5 year old neice loves it, the sheer variety of mini games 
 is just insane and will keep any number of people busy! Rayman is a total sideshow and its the 
 rabbids that rule the day whether throwing cows, firing plungers or racing warthogs this game has 
 it all! Perhaps the only downside is a lot of the mini games are hotseat rather than simultaneous 
 which is a shame. 
  
  There is something I should add. This game is completely, totally, utterly INSANE! The developers 
 must of been on some serious drugs when they came up with it! Makes it al lthe more fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokerules123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  lol. I got this game for Christmas along with the Wii.
  Basically, the story is that Rayman & some Baby Globoxes go to the park for a picnic, but the famous 
 'Rabbids' capture him & the Globoxes & he has to complete mini games to save them. Unfortunately, 
 the story mode is too short. Also every time you have to do a shooting mini game & a dancing mini 
 game. Couldn't there have been some difference? You can't save until you have completed the shooting 
 game, which is bad. But as you progress, you help Rayman to save the Baby Globoxes & escape. & 
 you unlock mini games to play. There is a multiplayer mode, if you wan't friends to join you, & 
 if you complete the story mode, a survival mode. Bottom line, this is good, but could've been better
 
  
  Good:
  Multiplayer mode
  The first game in which the Rabbids appear :D. But......
  Bad:
  You can't play as them :- (
  Gets a bit repetitive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alaarajab
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  After playing games like Red Steel, Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz, and The Legend of Zelda: Twilight 
 Princess on Nintendo's new Wii console, I've come to a conclusion that might wind up being unpopular: 
 I don't think these are the best games on the system. I think the best one is Ubisoft's crazy new 
 title, Rayman Raving Rabbids. Sure, it looks a bit like a kids game with its goofy main character 
 and cartoony graphics, but this one is actually a hell of a lot of fun for both kids and adults 
 in the same way that movies like Cars or Shrek were.
  
  This installment of Rayman is pretty different from all the past games. It skips on the platform 
 action and instead throws Rayman into an arena full of these insane rabbits, forcing him to go 
 through these hilarious mini-games in order to fight his way to freedom. And most of these games 
 are easily better than what we saw in Monkey Ball on the Wii - I think it's mostly because of the 
 sense of style and excellent creativity of Ubisoft's Montpelier studio. The Rabbids are in pretty 
 much every mini-game here, and they really add a kind of amusing charm that I got from classics 
 like Earthworm Jim and Toe Jam & Earl.
  
  That being said, once you get into Rayman's mini-games you're going to have a hell of a lot of 
 fun. From aiming and shooting toilet plungers into little rabbit faces, to closing the doors on 
 the poor Rabbids' port-a-potties, to playing hilarious dance/rhythm games with an odd yet infectious 
 soundtrack, it's got it all. You'll be jumping rope as some very mean creatures look on and Rabbids 
 pop into view to distract you, flicking both the Wiimote and Nunchuk as fast as you can to run 
 to the end of a course, and facing an onslaught of snorkeling Rabbids whose masks must be filled 
 up with your water gun. It's way out there but as soon as you get into each game you'll be gyrating 
 wildly (at least in some cases) and going nuts. Wii Sports might eventually get players to do the 
 same thing once they get into the game, but Rayman starts off with exactly that and goes up from 
 there. This is probably the best game to get if you want to get some sort of low-impact workout 
 when playing the Wii.
  
  Some of the mini-games wind up being really tough, and the developers have allowed the player a 
 little breathing room on this. Every day's worth of challenges offers four mini-games for you to 
 pick from in any order. You'll need to win at three of them to unlock the final stage for the day, 
 which is always a toilet-plunger-shooting game reminiscent of Area 51 or Terminator 2: Judgment 
 Day from the arcades, but here you'll be aiming with an on-screen crosshair controlled by the Wiimote. 
 If you beat all four games as well as the final stage for a day, you get to unlock new stuff like 
 the ability to play back the songs from the music mini-game as well as some other things.
  
  The Wii controller is used all kinds of crazy ways here in Rabbids. You'll twirl the Wiimote 
 around your head like a lasso as you try and fling an unsuspecting cow over 100 meters out into 
 the distance. You'll need pinpoint accuracy as you draw the outlines of food for a particularly 
 hungry Rabbid. You'll be flicking controllers to the beat in the music games, and the running game 
 will truly get your blood pumping. Many of these mini-games are also playable in a two-to-four 
 player mode, and they are just as much fun there as when you're playing alone.
  
  The graphics are pretty simplistic and won't be winning awards, but it's the animations and overall 
 art style for the Rabbids (especially in the shooter stages - Ubisoft even makes fun of their own 
 games, like Splinter Cell, with Sam Fisher-style goggles on some of the sneakier Rabbids) that 
 really add to the charm. You'll forget whether you need or even want an HDTV once you get a few 
 friends over and play this game, and that's a good thing. With the soundtrack covering stuff like 
 classic rap to Cyndi Lauper and even Misirlou (made popular in Pulp Fiction) , it's got at least 
 one or two songs everyone will love.
  
  When Nintendo first started touting the Wii as a console that really redefines how you have fun 
 playing video games, I think that at least at the start, what they were envisioning was exactly 
 what Rayman Raving Rabbids delivers. We'll see how that is evolved and tuned even further as the 
 Wii matures, but this is definitely one of the best games to launch with the system. Even if there 
 aren't any kids in your household, you owe it to yourself to pick this one up if you've got a Wii. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scara828
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  This game is hilarious, killing psychopath rabbits is just a to funny.
  Lets start the Review.
  For Story: It is quite simple, just Rayman is kidnapped by the rabbits 
 and you have to escape simple, but makes a good job entertaining a little, here is a 7.5
  For Graphics: You won't be surprised by its graphics but its not a torture for the eyes as other 
 games, its well designed, but animations are not as good as they could be anyway who care bout 
 the last one. here is a 8
  For Gameplay: Not bad, not bad at all, indeed it has smart use of the wii-mote and nunchuk, it 
 is quite sharp except for the mini-game where you have to throw a cow, everything is well controlled. 
 Here is a 8
  For Music: You won't get bored, the music is a smart compilation singed by the famous rabbits, 
 and it is a good compilation. Here is a 9
  In a General description it is a great game, but its lack of replay value and the slow way you 
 get points to unlock several things make it kinda, boring, the last feature took away the 8.5 that 
 it may deserve. Even if these bunnies can take more than a laugh from you you will soon get bored.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: slidypitt
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  My first impression: fun. My last one: A totally *** crappy s*** game that you should burn to the 
 hell.
  
  Story: Mostly none, really boring 0/10
  
  Graphics: Cartonney one, but fit with the lame of the game 2/10
  
  Musics: Only few olds tune ( 
 Most of them s***) 2/10
  
  Gameplay: Mostly the same in each mini-games 3/10
  
  Why this game is so bad? First... I think for the old fans of Rayman should be angry. Rayman looks 
 ridiculous figthing a bunch of no-brain rabbits. Second... The mini-games are all the same only 
 the difficulty changes ( And they s*** too) . And plus, you have always some moron dancing mini-games 
 which s*** a lot becuz this is always the same things and also that you miss this f****** rabbits 
 half-time. Third... No story. What is more boring than have no story in a game. All you see is that 
 these f***** rabbits catch Rayman and they want him to play some games with him. Totally lame.
 
  Here that what I have to say about this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pangster007
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 5:17 am PT
Review:  I bought this game just before Christmas for 20. I was tempted to go for the sequel but at twice 
 the price i didn't bother. Hoping for a good party experience, i was somewhat disappointed with 
 this game. Rayman Raving Rabbids is a multiplatform title but the most significant port is the 
 Wii version in having implemented motion sensing and the pointing function of the Wiimote.
  
  The story breaks out with you, Rayman, having a picnic with these "Globoxes" when suddenly, 
 these rabbits come out and take Rayman and the globoxes prisoners. The rabbits are really crazy, 
 idiotic, invasive beings known as Rabbids. Once you're held prisoner, the Rabbids keep you for 
 their entertainment purposes which sees you undergoing challenges in a colloseum. Everyday you 
 are taken out and forced to complete these minigames. Upon completion of 3 or 4 minigames a final 
 objective concludes the day. You are rewarded a plunger for surviving a day which may not seem 
 much use at first. However there is hope to escape: Rayman sees it, and all he knows to do is to 
 keep surviving and he'll get out.
  
  The game is controlled with a Wiimote and nunchuck: before every minigame, you need to read how 
 to control and what needs to be done to pass the minigame. The games are short and fun, particularly 
 with a few friends in the room. The lunatic Rabbids have such a cute look; bursts of 'AAARGH!!' 
 screams breaks the silence with impactful timing. Throughout the game, the charm and cartoon nature 
 of the characters all flow together really nicely. However, as simple and fun as things are, it 
 grows bored and tired by the end of the game; much earlier if you were to play by yourself. The 
 trouble here is that the first person shooter 'minigame' lasts far too long even though it is a 
 'boss-minigame'. It is far too easy, it has its moments but as a whole it is repeated too many 
 times and for too long.
  
  There are a few good minigames. In one game, you are pumping up your squirt gun by 'pumping' with 
 the nunchuck and aiming with the wiimote. Not only does it test your arm stamina but shows how 
 good your technique in aiming is under this condition. The excitement and thrill really comes into 
 play when you compete with a few friends; people will get fatigued. :lol: . In another game, a 
 few rabbids go to the loo at the beach but the toilet doors have no locks! You have to aim your 
 hand at the doors and then slam them shut by flicking the nunchuck: as if to motion a slap. If 
 you let a door stay open, a Rabbid will punish you and it'll be game over. They really nailed the 
 controls for this game by simulating a slapping motion. A few game requires tilt sensing such as 
 sky-diving; although confusing at first, it tilt controls hold up really well. Other tilt games 
 include rolling a ball and flying around picking up pigs: the reason you do these are particularly 
 stupid and pointless, yet comical.
  
  There are a few games that are generic and uninteresting and are mostly those which have no/little 
 difference for the Wiimote to the typical gamepad. For example, the racing games are controlled 
 by the analogue stick and 'attack' is just wiimote waggle. Another game requires you walking up 
 to dancing rabbids and hitting them with waggle. These do nothing to take advantage of the Wiimote, 
 and what's changed about those are merely gimmicky. I do have to praise the dancing/rhythm games 
 though, they're well done with a few catchy tunes and i found them to be just the right difficulty. 
 My friend on the other hand was hopeless at it. I have to admit that at the later dance games as 
 the pace and difficulty really ramps up, the motion controls start to feel a bit hap-hazard as 
 it registers multiple 'hits' with one frantic waggle - something you'll often do as the pace become 
 a lot, lot faster. For someone who just can't do rhtythm games though, these may seem impossible. 
 Having said that, in one game i couldn't get past was when navigating through a 'minefield' by 
 listening to the wiimote for 'squeals of alarm'. My same friend got through no problems in a few 
 seconds.  _ 
  
  When all is played out though, this is when the experience will waver hugely. The games you unlock 
 don't have many simultaneous multiplayer (more than one controller at the same time) . What you 
 are treated to however, are the exact same games but for everyone to take turns to compare scores 
 - not exactly riveting stuff. To be harsh, the multiplayer aspect was already being played during 
 the singleplayer as you took turns or watched in laughter at your friends as they make towards 
 the end of the single player campaign. Even harsher still, other things which may prolong the game 
 (unlikely) is the codes they give you for getting high scores, codes which you can submit at the 
 ubisoft website to compare scores with other people around the world. The lack of integration of 
 the wii's online connectivity here underlines how much of a PORT this game is. The game is not 
 a graphical powerhouse, rather than that, this aspect bolds out the PORT, as aspect ratio is not 
 true and neither are the FMV are particularly optimised.
  
  In the end, i paid 20 for this of which i feel a tad 'ripped-off'. Despite 20 being a reduced 
 price, i have to feel sorry for many who did pay full price as the game can be picked up for other 
 platforms such as the PC and PS2 for half of what i paid for. But then again, i'm talking from 
 the perspective of a dedicated gamer. There are other games offering the same experience such as 
 the sequel, RRR2, or Warioware. I would probably have had a better time playing those ones which 
 i've been told have better multiplayer options and so i can't really recommend this game as a buy 
 for other players. It's a nice rental at best; but a good buy if you can get the Wii version for 
 10 pounds, not 20 - Even better still, rent Rayman Raving Rabbids 2 or find a good deal for Warioware. 
 During the writeup of this, i have now traded the game in (which i rarely do) for 14. So it's 
 not all that bad considering the fun to be had out of it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alidallal
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 7, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  If you are tired of playing an RPG, a long adventure game or a tiresome brain storming game and 
 you want to ease a little bit and try something light and fun for a change then I'm sure that Rayman 
 Raving Rabbids will be a good choice.
  
  You say why is that? Well, it is because Ubisoft took a different direction with Rayman by turning 
 their adventure game into a set of mini games, quick and fun mini games to be exact. By finishing 
 all the mini games you will find that Ubisoft covered most of the wii mote abilities such as tilting, 
 waving, pointing and their combinations. Sometimes you will find lots of repeated mini games with 
 increased difficulty by adding some obstacles but I really prefer to play new ones instead of those 
 repeated ones. I guess Ubisoft didn't put all its efforts into this game because it was testing 
 the Nintendo Wii capabilities and so they won't end with big losses if the project fails by any 
 chance, but luckily the game turned out fun and accessible by all ages although the younger audience 
 and causal gamers will find it more appealing.
  
  When I started playing the game I presumed that it won't be long but actually it turned out to 
 be longer than some high budget games on the PS3 and Xbox360, it took me around 8 hours to finish 
 the story mode only. The score mode is the one that probably will hold you for a while because 
 if you have friends to play with the score mode will grant you access to all the mini games you 
 unlocked in the story mode which are playable by 2 to 4 players some simultaneously and others 
 alternatively, otherwise if you don't have friends to play with after finishing any mini game the 
 score mode will provide you with a web code that you can enter in www. raymanzone. com website after 
 registering which will update your profile with the mini game you finished, its scores and the 
 total points you gained. The fun part about this is that you can compare your score with others 
 worldwide or within your country, I was number 2 in my country :D but only because I was the second 
 person registering from my country, but if you where from other known countries you will find it 
 more enjoyable to compete with other pals. Not only that but the points you accumulate in the score 
 mode will unlock bonus stuff such as movies and galleries.
  
  Finally in terms of graphics and sound I find that Ubisoft succeeded by giving the game a nice 
 cartoony style graphics which isn't stunning but more suitable for the game style and didn't suffer 
 from slow downs or frame rate issues. And I found the sound actually even better by providing enjoyable 
 tunes suitable with the game environments and funny bunny sound effects that will make you laugh.
 
  
  The bottom line is, Rayman Raving Rabbids is targeted mostly for multiplayer fun but if you are 
 the competitive type of gamer then you will find salvation within the score mode by breaking some 
 worldwide records.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quenaelin
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 25, 2008 3:52 am PT
Review:  Controls are really pain in this game, in too many mini-games you have to shake controllers like 
 mad, it really reminds Daley Thompson's Decathlon from 80's, which was joystick shaking nightmare. 
 Rayman Raving Rabbids is most wii-mote unfriendly and unergonomic game which I have played on wii. 
 You get aching hands in no time, don't buy this game or even don't rent it if you have even light 
 wrist pain or carpal tunnel aching from using computer or for other reasons, big warning for you 
 because after playing you have real pain and carpal tunnel syndrome for sure. This game doesn't 
 have very good use of motion control, in about half of mini-games you need to shake wii-mote rapidly 
 and quickly. Other half is shooting and aiming mini-games, even some games you need to aim and 
 shake at same time, which even increases annoyance factor. Story what story, there isn't any. You 
 only need to play through all mini-games, end of story. It is very unfortunate that many game developers 
 doesn't know that motion sensing could be used for much ergonomic way not only for rapid shaking 
 movements. Game producers please ask consulting from physician when you develop games for Wii, 
 ergonomic is also very essential when playing games, if not now at least in future it will be. 
 Because more and more people are using computers and they like to relax while playing video games. 
 Rayman Raving Rabbids makes you more tense than relaxing. There is only couple funny moments in 
 Rayman Raving Rabbids otherwise you need to shake wii-mote until your hands ache, after that you 
 are really finished playing and don't want to touch this game again.
  
  + Rayman
  + Couple of funny moments
  
  - Mad controller shaking
  - Increases/causes Carpal Tunnel Syndrome 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: litchfieldbears
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Despite all the say and criticisms, Rayman Raving Rabbids is one of the best wii party games out. 
 It has a range of different genres from precision games, such as drawing food for a Rabbid to eat, 
 to workout, which requires you to in most games to pump your arms up and down as fast and as much 
 as you can. May not sound like fun. Well simply it is fun. My friend bought it over and the second 
 i started playing the games, i couldn't stop smiling and laughing. This is really a multi player 
 game, not much fun on your own. There are a few games that i believe are pointless. The design 
 and graphics isn't that bad. Come on its a party game. My opinion is that in this sort of a game, 
 the only thing that matters is that is is fun and more fun. And Rayman Raving Rabbids delivers. 
 This is a party game. Despite what critics say, give it a chance. You still may not like it if 
 this isn't your thing you now, but is definitely the party game of choice until compared with Mario 
 Party 8. If you are looking at this game, the wii's version is defiantly the one to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meandmewii
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Rayman is taken captive by crazed bunny invaders. You must help Rayman collect plungers and escape 
 from his prison cell. To earn a plunger several challenges must first be beat. This is the fun 
 part. The challenges are in the form of hilarious minigames. Launching bunnies, milking cows, dancing 
 to "girls just wanna have fun" and of course blasting the poor little guys with plungers. Some 
 of the games are a little challenging, but most are quite easy and can be completed in a few tries. 
 New songs for Rayman's jukebox and a variety of different costumes along with other bonuses can 
 be unlocked. While single player is fun, multiplayer is a blast. Compete with or against up to 
 3 of your friends in all of the games and challenges. Overall, Rayman: Raving Rabbids is "just 
 plain fun" for anyone who has even a little sense of humor. For $20-$30 (depending on where you 
 shop) it is well worth the money, and lots of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snokdruid
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids is the next Rayman game and one of the best games for the Wii at the moment.
 
  
  At the start, you're kidnapped by the Raving Rabbids and taken to their lair. They think they can 
 get some laughs from you, making you do tasks in a massive coliseum. "This is gonna be a breeze" 
 is probably what you would think at the start, though it's not going to be what you think.
  
  The games are quite challenging at times, a lot of them are more frustrating though. There 
 is plenty of different game types like dancing, shooting, puzzles and other weird creations. In 
 each one you get to own rabbits in some way, how can that not be fun?
  
  You start off by having to do 3-4 out of 4 of the challenges set for you. After you've completed 
 them, the massive coliseum gates will open, allowing you to continue with the next level of games.
 
  
  By completing a level, you will be giving a plunger as a trophy. Being stupid rabbits and all, 
 they don't know that you can use these for an escape. Completing all 4 out of 4 games will give 
 you a certain new outfit to use. You can change your outfit in your cell after a level.
  
  As you continue your journey and getting better at the games, the rabbits start loving you!. I 
 guess they want to love you, so you won't turn on them. I mean.. they don't want you ripping their 
 heads off right?
  
  After getting quite a few plungers, you realize how long the game is going to take. It took me 
 and a mate roughly 6 hours to get halfway, by then i think our hands were crying for a rest. The 
 game does get really boring at some stages because of game styles being repeated a lot.
  
  The use of the Wii remote is really well done in this game. You didn't know you could do so many 
 things with the remote before this game. Shaking, waving, poking, pushing, aiming and even putting 
 the remote to your ear.
  
  If you liked Wii Play a lot, you'll probably like this also. Good graphics, good controlling and 
 a rarely seen style of game. Give this one a try, you must rent it or buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wweMysterio
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Rayman raving rabbids takes adavmtage of the wii mote and makes it 10times better! playing with 
 buttons isnt fun! well it is but not nearly as fun as doing the actions! this game is great and has 
 cute and good graphics=D
  you can even competete by putting on ur high scores and get to the top rankings! This game is far 
 better than the 360 version because if this game didnt hav the wii mote and i cant imagine it bieng 
 fun and lasting for even 2 weeks. This games grahphics are great and the bunny hunt and the dance 
 competition are fun=D+theres milkin pigs lol throwin cows giving exploding gifts. This game gives 
 u exercise (sometimes alil too much) it is lil 2 easy..... though the game offers what the ppl want-fun, excercise, compete 
 with there friends/family
  and it offers all of that
  playing multiplay is so much freakin fun! i hav 2 wii motes and nunchucks so me and my bro enjoy 
 the game every 2 days and sometimes play my carz game and rarely zelda cause i beat the game like 
 5 times. Though this game is gonna last for a long time=D
  i only got this game for the ssbb w8. Though this game will always be played by me. so im telling 
 u 2 spend alil momey and enjoy for a long time! ive preorder ssbb so read the review too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthus8888
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids really is pretty fun, especially with a group. The rabbids are hilarious 
 and their antics seldom wear thin. The action is frantic and some of the minigames take a surprising 
 amount of skill.
  
  This doesn't make up for the fact that it all feels repetitive. The same, boring arena greets you 
 over and over again. The shooring missions are nice, but really don't feels as exciting after the 
 second time around. Plus, they're way to easy. Also, too many games involve simply pumping your 
 arms up and down. It's pretty obvious too many games were simply shoved in for bulk late, since 
 many revolve around this lame concept.
  
  Still, you'll have a lot of fun if you bring friends into the picture. So if you don't care about 
 story and just want to have some fun in smallish doses this game should slake your thirst. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kcweezkid
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  I have now owned this game for a long enough period of time to where I should be able to have an 
 accurate grasp on my feelings for the game, yet I am still struggling to figure out how this game 
 stacks up to other games on the Wii.
  
  To begin with a quick overview of the game play  There is a story mode with virtually no story, 
 but it doesn't really need it. It is just filled with mini games, some of which are fun, others 
 which are tedious, others repetitive, and some pretty difficult. It is a nice variety, and a pretty 
 decent use of the Wii remote. 
  
  The theme and graphics are what set this game apart from many of the similar titles that exist 
 on the system. The colors are bright and the graphics work perfectly within the theme. The bunnies 
 tip-toe on a thin line between cute and annoying, but for the most part they work. The games are 
 very childish  closing bathroom doors and shooting bunnies with plungers  but they fit perfectly 
 within the theme and the game doesn't try to be serious anyway. I would imagine the younger Wii 
 audience would eat it up, and even the older Wii crowd, like me, can appreciate the nonsense approach 
 that this game portrays. 
  
  The good, The Bad, The Interesting 
  
  The Good  The mini games are innovative and unique. The system has many games like this one, but 
 Rabbids puts most of the other mini game titles to shame. There are many different games and you 
 use the Wii remote in almost every way imaginable. It is an easy game to pick up and play when 
 you have 15 minutes to spare, but if you are not careful you will have played a couple hours without 
 realizing it. That is usually the sign of a pretty good game. 
  
  The Bad  The story mode is pretty repetitive. You repeat a lot of the same ideas as you progress 
 through the game, and they get harder as you go. The concept had to be to repeat the ideas that 
 were most popular in developing  I believe every level has a DJ / Beat game which is pretty cool. 
 Every level also has a Duck Hunt style shooting game. This is a cool idea but gets boring after 
 a while. This is always the last mini game you must beat to advance to the next level and it is 
 longer than I would like in most cases. 
  
  The Interesting  With all of the mini games it is easy to understand there is definitely going 
 to be games that some people like and others don't. That is always refreshing and this is a fun 
 game to play at parties or in place of Wii Sports. Newbies will be impressed by the use of the 
 remotes and Wii Veterans will still be entertained by the highly addictive games. I may even suggest 
 to enjoy a few frosty brews with some friends while playing this title if you are of age. The Wii 
 and these games are great for get togethers that used to rely on the good old fashion board game.
 
  
  Overall this is a solid game. It is entertaining and will keep you coming back regardless of what 
 age you are. It is challenging and everyone who plays may excel at different games based on their 
 personal skills  that is one of the coolest things about the Wii. I am about 2/3rds of the way 
 through on story mode right now and I am not sure if I am having fun with the game anymore or if 
 I am just motivated to beat this game. Regardless, I continue to play the game pretty regularly 
 and it does find its way into the system when a group is hanging out. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkfire_shadow
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  This game is really a blast. The point of this game is silly - but competing against other people 
 when tossing cows, or shooting plungers is just a blast. This is a great party game. The toilet 
 humor is not lost on it's desired audience, the graphics are funny and bring you back for more. 
 I think that anyone who is interested in a mind numbing party style game will enjoy this one. This 
 game won't challenge your skills as a gamer, but I challenge you not to grin through the entire 
 game play. In a word - this game is FUN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phokis
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  This game, without the humor, would be a mediocre party game. Many of the games a single player 
 affairs only, and require you to play through a somewhat tedious Single Player game to unlock them 
 for multiplayer use.
  
  That said, the game does have humor. It is has the same appeal simple flash-based cartoons do. 
 It is just fun to watch, even if the gameplay itself is simplistic, or not particularly fun to 
 control.
  
  That is not to say all of the minigames are bad. Very few are actually 'bad.' Most range from Almost 
 OK to Pretty Fun, with a few that go above and beyond. The big draws being the Dancing Minigame 
 and the Shooter sequences. They are long and get the most production value.
  
  At the end of the day, you need a couple friends who are going to scream with you at the TV with 
 the Rabbids. If you've got that, this game is a fun party game, that I recommend at least renting 
 if you own a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Basically RRR is a game about... well.... minigames! All done in a comedic style based the Rayman 
 game series. You use your controller in various ways to complete mini games like throw a cow as 
 far as you can by twirling the joystick around and around real fast then hitting a button. Or hitting 
 certain buttons in order to sneak up on a guard as fast as possible while he keeps looking back 
 (without getting caught) .
  
  The Wii version is by far the only version that works right. It has the best controls and doesn't 
 aggravate you to death. The games crazy controller antics make it fun for multiple people and probably 
 make this the funnest mini-game game I have played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STICK_ON_MARIO
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  This game wont take you a couple days or less, but there are alot of features that keeps you going. For 
 instance the farther you progress in this game all the bunnies start treating you with more respect. 
 Also the multiplayer mode is extremely fun. One of the best features is the way you can customize 
 your Rayman. There are tons of suits you can choose from like  
 and many many more. Another interesting feature is that the farther you progress your cell looks 
 better. It features 70 mini-games that sometime can be difficult but not often. Overall this game 
 is highly addictive and a must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LEPPY
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 7, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  I was quite excited at the prospect of playing this game when I saw the package and viewed some 
 of the screenshots. But 5 minutes into the game my oppinion shifted to B game with low budget production. 
 The minigames are ok but they are not put together in a fun world. The arena where you get from 
 mini game to minigame is a waste of time cinimatic pile of ****.... The little bit of fun you get 
 from the mini games and the plunger shootem up is quickly snuffed by the rest of the game environment.
 
  
  To be fair... I haven't played through the whole game. But I lost interest very quickly since I 
 purchased it with another game that was FAR more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiidog
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 5, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is not a good game. It's mini-games will have you excited for a split second, but every 
 game you will never want to play again because they lack depth and excitement. The game can be 
 beaten easily in a day. The only good game in the WHOLE GAME is the shooting where you shoot the 
 rabbits. But unless you want to pay $50 for that, you are better off getting something else. You 
 can dress up ray man in different clothes ( which is fun at first) but gets old after awhile. One 
 thing that is also surprising and upsetting is when you use the gansta clothes. When you use them 
 you become darker in skin tone which is certainly RACIST!!!! Overall this game needs to be taken 
 out back and shot. This is an honest review. If you want real fun BUY SOMETHING ELSE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathmetalgod
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to go into detail about what the game is like because you can read that in the main 
 review. I just wanted to warn any potential purchasers of this game by saying that it gets very 
 boring very quickly and not one of the mini games is worth doing again once you've completed the 
 story mode (which can be completed in a few short of hours) .
  I purchased this game on Tuesday and had it completed by Thursday (and traded by Saturday) and 
 I wasn't the slightest bit interested in replaying any of the mini-games to beat my best times 
 or unlock any of the bonus videos etc...
  The game is slightly amusing, due to the rabbids quirky sense of humour, but that's the only good 
 thing I can think to say about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljlrj
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2007 11:50 pm PT
Review:  Upon first boot of the game, it is absurdly obvious that this is not your typical Rayman game. 
 It isn't a true platformer, yet more so a warioware'esque mini-game experience. Being a very casual 
 gamer, this did not change my opinion about the game like it has to some gamers. One of the first 
 things i DID notice though was the quality (or lack there of) of the graphics. It is a ps2/gc port 
 and it looks it. With that said, I still LOVE this game. I actually traded in Gears of War for 
 it and still do not regret it! If you would like a complimentary game for your Wii, I highly recommend 
 Rayman RR. Not only are there 70+ mini games, there is also multiple ways to replay these mini-games, 
 adding TONS of replayability. Truly addictive and great fun for the entire family! If you are a 
 parent, grandparent, child or teen... doesn't matter, Rayman Raving Rabbids offers hours of fun 
 for this christmas holiday break! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeyman3045
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 4:11 am PT
Review:  Playing this game with my son..6 and everyone else in my family makes it very enjoyable. I have 
 never played a more family based game that just makes evereyone laugh everytime we play it. I'm 
 in my mid 30's and love this game. Why such a low rating??? I haven't figured that out yet, unless 
 people playing it are not family. You get lots of exercise playing it and the laughing is the best. 
 Mario Party and Monkey Balls are both fantastic family games as well but, I found this to be excellent 
 because of the even firld between the ages. Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsurfer200
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 6:49 am PT
Review:  This is most definitely a good Wii game to play. The story is this: Rayman was having a picnic 
 with the globox kids when suddenly rabbids came out from the ground and captured Rayman and the 
 globoxes. The rabbids force Rayman to compete in the trials. Rayman must win three out of four 
 qualifying trials each day and, then win the final trial of the day. This game is hilarious. The 
 minigames involve doing crazy things such as throwing cows, milking pigs, hitting bunnies on the 
 head, closing outhouse doors and many more. There are 70 games to choose from. 1/5 of the minigames 
 are dancing minigames. These have you using your Wiimote and Nunchuck like drum sticks. In order 
 to play the dancing games you have to have quick reflexes and rhythm. (I don't have either ;) ) 
 There are almost as many bunny shootouts as there are dances. These games involve playing a FPS 
 where you have to shoot bunnies with a plunger gun. You use the Wiimote to aim and shoot and the 
 Nunchuck to reload.
  
  It does have its problems though: The shooter segements do get old, and the game gets really glitchy 
 at times. Plus, It has a little too much bathroom humor than I am comfortable with. Oh, and the 
 multiplayer sucks. 
  
  Overall, this game is pretty good, but flawed. Worth a shot. 
  
  
  [Taken From My Site: http://james. iblog365. com/2007/05/15/rayman-raving-rabbids-910/ ] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_sageX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  While I was very disappointed that Raymans next adventure wouldnt be an adventure at all, the 
 game does set a good example of what mini game based games should be like and how the Wii controls 
 should work.
  
  Story: Rayman was having a nice day with Globox kids when suddenly an earthquake appears and the 
 kids disappeared. However then weird creatures called the Rabbids popped out and didnt give Rayman 
 a warm welcome. Rayman was captured and tossed into an arena and was forced to participate in various 
 trials. Doing these trials would probably be the only for Rayman to escape.
  
  Game design: Like many mini games there is no great story plot in the game. You will be placed 
 in this arena and you can go through doors where there are mini games waiting for you.
  Before a mini game starts you will be given instructions as to what to do and most importantly, 
 how to use the Wii controls, which is very useful.
  You can customize Rayman by giving him different costumes and there are many mini games for you 
 to try.
  
  Game play: At first I didnt really like the idea of playing some useless mini games but when I 
 tried out the Wii controls I just didnt want to stop. While you use the nunchuk stick to move 
 Rayman in the arena the Wii controls change depending on what game you play.
  The mini games make great use of the Wii controls and are very easy to use.
  
  Sound: Well 
 there isnt much voice casts here, just Rabbids screaming and some occasional narrations. The music 
 is not so great.
  
  Overall Rayman Raving Rabbids is probably the best mini game based game yet (Not Rayman game though) . 
 The controls are great and the game has a great sense of humour. While single player can be fun 
 the real magic would probably come from multi-player.
  Because of the controls I would assume the Wii version is probably the best to get, since its 
 very responsive and I cant imagine playing this game with a control stick or D-pads.
  Either way Rayman Raving Rabbids is one of those Wii titles you should definitely look out for.
 
  However like many other mini games the duration can be a problem, you might not find your self 
 playing this game forever, but still if you want something that truly makes your Wii work then 
 its this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 17, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Am I the only person in the world who wishes that Ubisoft would just make another 3-D Rayman game 
 as good as Rayman 3? I sure hope not, but I sure do feel like I'm the only one. Everyone likes 
 this game so much. Why? The minigames aren't very good at all, except for the rhythm and shooting 
 ones, which are a total blast. A lot of the times, the controls don't work half as well as they 
 need to, and some of the other games are either frustrating or not very fun. The rabbids are absolutely 
 hilarious, though. I just wish that this was more than a collection of minigames. What looked like 
 a promising platformer turned out to be a mediocre collection of minigames. Why, Ubisoft? WHY? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrax80
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 16, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  This an incredibly wacky and crazy collection of Mini-games. I mean the whole premise of the game 
 is to escape from your prison cell by beating contests that these insane rabidds, that are trying 
 to take over the world, have set for you and you slowly win plungers which you start to stick to 
 the wall so that you can eventually use them as a ladder and escape out the window, oh, and you 
 save some of your friends on the way. If that does not sound wacky and crazy to you then I don't 
 know what will. The Rabidds are some of the most unique character designs for a villain. They are 
 creepy but somewhat cute at the same time. The mini-games themselves are fun but often they will 
 repeat in the game with a greater level of difficulty though. The games use the Wii motion controls 
 in a large variety of ways and are usually responsive. The soundtrack is just as wacky and it's 
 a strange and hilarious collections of songs. The graphics are pretty decent. The most fun part 
 of the game is the arcade style shooter levels that you play and it's the most action packed part 
 of the game. The multi-player is pretty cool and you can unlock costumes in different levels of 
 the game. Overall, this is a crazy game and it's fun and I recommend you at least rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pocket-dragon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids is just plain hilarious. Although it does not even slightly resemble older 
 Rayman games, it is very fun. You are Rayman: strong and courageous. One day you are out for a 
 stroll when suddenly, you are seized by... what appears to be bunnies and take to a cell inside 
 a large outdoor stadium. Each day, you are taken by a guard to the arena, where you must preform 
 a series of tasks (or mini-games) . After completing four or five of them, a shoot-out stage or 
 hog race stage will be unlocked. In the shoot-out, you are given a plunger gun, which you use to 
 shoot Rabbids that appear out of tunnels and such. You will get points from every Rabbid you kill. 
 On the hog race stage, you must ride a boar around a course (which can actually prove to be quite 
 hard and frustrating) to the finish line. What makes that all the more frustrating is you MUST 
 come in the top 3. Overall, Rayman Raving Rabbids is great multiplayer mini-game fun. Much better 
 than Mario Party. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MallratsJaySB
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 12:11 am PT
Review:  Rayman is back! And he's ready to save the world from.... loony, maniacal bunnies with ADD! That's 
 right, bunnies. It is one of the most bizarre decisions in gaming seen yet, but somehow it works. 
 Kudos to Michel Ancel for having the guts to even pitch the concept of this game. Rayman has steadily 
 improved over the course of his three previous games. The gameplay just got better and better and 
 platforming paradise was right around the corner. So the decision to jump from platforming to a 
 collection of mini-games is a questionable one.
  
  None of the Rayman games have had great stories, but Raving Rabbids is probably the worst of them 
 all. While Rayman is just relaxing having a picnic with some Globoxes, mysterious bunnies snatch 
 them away, imprison them, and force Rayman to compete in mini-games for their enjoyment. The whole 
 plot synopsis can be summarized in one sentence and if that's any indication, it's easy to tell 
 that the story goes nowhere. Luckily, a game of this type needs no story.
  
  Rayman has 4 qualifying mini-games in each round that he must complete to get to the fifth and 
 final mini-game. After beating the last game, he is awarded with a plunger. The goal of the game 
 is to reach a window very high up in his cell using the plungers to create what is more or less 
 a ladder. The mini-games in this collection range from lame to awesome to completely off-the-wall. 
 The game claims to have over 70 mini-games for your enjoyment, but in all actuality, it's probably 
 more like 45 or 50, if that. More than a handful of mini-games are used repeatedly, some in almost 
 every single round. Luckily, these are the best ones. The two most used mini-games are a first 
 person shooter and a dance game. Although they do repeat rather consistently, each time it is slightly 
 different. The first person shooter segments, where you shoot the bunnies with plungers in a hilarious 
 fashion, all have different themes to them. There is the horror level, the western level, the science 
 fiction level, etc. Although they do repeat, it's nice to have this variety in the settings. As 
 for the dance game, each time they will have different songs or a harder difficulty on the same 
 song. You'll have to time when to shake the Wii remote and nunchuk with the beat of the song. Thankfully, 
 each song is instantly recognizable, including MIsirlou and classic cheese such as Girls Just Want 
 To Have Fun, which makes it easier to pick up and play.
  
  The other mini-games vary in quality. Some are absolutely hilarious, such as one where you'll need 
 to swing a cow over your head and launch him as far as you can. Others are either too simple or 
 too boring. The warthog racing mini-game in particular can get quite annoying since it's re-used 
 a few times. However, the majority of the mini-games are fun enough to keep your attention through 
 the first playthrough. The biggest problem with Rayman Raving Rabbids regarding gameplay is that 
 there isn't really any replayability. Sure, you can go to the Score mode and try to unlock bonus 
 videos and such, but few of the mini-games are fun enough to go back to after completing them once. 
 Even with friends, it will be hard to convince yourself to pop this game in to play the handful 
 of excellent mini-games.
  
  One thing that must be said about the game is that it's funny. The Rabbids are positively gut-busting 
 with their seemingly calm demeanor abruptly bursting into a wild fit of screaming. Even some of 
 the unlockables can be quite amusing. By completing all four of the qualifying mini-games rather 
 than the three needed to proceed, you'll unlock a song or an outfit. The outfits are great. The 
 gangsta one is pretty funny looking and the soccer outfit, called Raymaninho, is very clever.
 
  
  The visuals leave much to be desired. It's true that the Wii isn't the most powerful system on 
 the market, but gamers expect more than what is presented in this game. Rayman and the Rabbids 
 look great, but everything is so plainly detailed that it hurts. The arena that Rayman uses to 
 enter into each mini-game is devoid of personality. There are lots of bunnies in the stands looking 
 down on you, but they all move more like a three page flip book repeating over and over rather 
 than real characters. This looks like a last-gen game. It's not horridly unappealing, but it sure 
 isn't pretty.
  
  The sound is pretty good. As said before, the Rabbids sound absolutely hilarious. Outside of the 
 screams and various little sighs and such, there is a very minute amount of dialogue. Honestly, 
 it's hard to judge the sound because the audio that emanates from the game is just so odd. I don't 
 particularly feel one way or another about it. It did it's job and nothing more.
  
  Rayman Raving Rabbids is a great game to play if you want to show off your new Wii to some buddies, 
 but it doesn't have the lasting appeal that other games do. Plus, none of the mini-games are particularly 
 challenging. Don't be surprised if you blast through this game rarely having to excessively replay 
 a mini-game because it really is just that easy. However, it is fun the first time through which 
 gives it enough edge to recommend it. Rayman Raving Rabbids is a fun mini-game compilation that 
 can easily be enjoyed during a slow weekend, but not much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartinWinthrop
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  I was wanting this game to be more of a platform game where you run around like Super Marios and 
 I was greatly disappointed that it wasn't that sort of game. I just did not do the necessary homework 
 before I got it. Having said that, I cannot blame the game. So I have to give it a score of about 
 an 8 and here is why. It is a new idea. Instead of platform, you are given fun tasks to fulfill 
 in the game that are like competitions so that the Rabbids won't get you. The more you do, the 
 sooner you can be free. It is a fun game then, which is meant for kids. I did not give it a superb 
 rating though because once you see the task at hand and do it successfully the first time, over 
 and over again, then thats it. I felt the game was greatly limited. Humorous, yes; which is good. 
 But limited. So I give it props for creative thinking but about an 8 and the scale of greatness. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Rayman was not one of my first choices for a great experience on the Wii. With that being said 
 it was surprisingly good. Rayman begins with your friends being captured by some really wigged 
 out rabbits. Along with them you get captured and placed in a sort of coliseum where you are forced 
 to participate in a bunch of many games. The first four are actual mini games, and the main game 
 is unlocked after completing three of them. The games are a lot of fun and don't get repetitive. 
 It uses the wii remote in one of the best ways I have seen so far. The musical score is one for 
 the whole family including rock, pop, and disco. The sounds are that of a nickolodeon cartoon filled 
 with toilet humor. After story mode, theres not much replay value considering there is nothing 
 but a score, so mindless mini games are fun, until you just get burnt out on them. All in all rayman 
 is a good experience worth at least a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2007 1:42 am PT
Review:  There is just something about the rabbids in this game that makes it an instant classic. They are 
 cute, adorable, insane, and absolutely nonsensical. This combinaition leads to all sorts of fun 
 mini-games that make very good use of the Wii Remote.
  
  The game itself has 70 some odd mini-games, though this is fairly misleading. About half of the 
 games are repeated at least once in a more difficult version, therefore really leaving the mini-game 
 count at about 50 or so. Still, that is a fairly good amount, and there is nothing wrong with that. 
 Due to the insaniyt of the rabbids, most every mini-game is unique, funny and genuinely enjoyable. 
 You have games such as forcing a rabbid to remain in a toilet, plucking worms out of a rabbid's 
 teeth or delivering an explosive present to a hapless rabbid as soon as possible. These normally 
 quirky games, along with the very fun DDR-style rythm games and the rail-shooter (similar to games 
 like Time Crisis and House of the Dead) games, make this set of minigames very solid.
  
  The main problem that arises from these minigames is what defines a party game: multiplayer. The 
 majority of minigames must be played in turns. The rail-shooters must be played with 1 or 2 people 
 only and there are only a handful of games that can be played simultaneously. This is a major flaw, 
 because being able to play at the same time as others in zany games is what makes a party game 
 most fun (like Mario Party for example, which otherwise is only a mediocre series now) . On the 
 bright side, the games are just over-the-top funny, that the waiting players will be having a good 
 laugh watching. Another seemingly minor point is that you don't need 4 remotes and Nunchuk to play 
 this game. You can get away with having just one pair, since all the simultaneous games will merely 
 be played by turns. Considering the prices of the controller pairs, this is a definately welcome 
 feature in a game meant to be played with more than one person.
  
  The games control absolutely fine, and in fact use the WIi Remote in more ways than I could have 
 every thought of. You will find wonderful variety here in controls, and all of them are very intuitive 
 and generally very responsive, which is impressive out of a Wii launch game. The story is utterly 
 lame, but gets the job done and also at least makes the single-player make some sense. Basically 
 Rayman gets kidnapped by rabbids while he is on a picnic and then is thrown into a colosseum. Rayman 
 then needs to complete events to gain the favor of the rabbids while finding a way to escape. Simple 
 as that. The events are of course your minigames. So overall the game is fun, but what about the 
 technical aspects?
  
  Well the game can range from looking great, to looking kind of bland. Overall the graphics don't 
 ever exceed the looks of an Xbox game, sometimes looking like a decent GCN game. That isn't very 
 good coming out of the Wii, a more powerful console. When a game has bad graphics like that, usually 
 it makes up for it in artistic direction. Well this game does that and doesn't at the same time. 
 At times the game will look absolutely wonderful, with varied rabbids and fun environments, but 
 more often then not, you will find the game to have wonderful artistic ideas, but for a lot of 
 the execution to be a little bland. At least the animations are fairly fluid, though very rarely 
 you will notice a stutter in framerate (usually during cutscenes, not gameplay) . Sometimes I wonder 
 whether this game was rushed near the end, which is why some of these issues exist that could have 
 been polished otherwise.
  
  As for the sound, well this is a mixed bag as well. The sound effects overall are fantastic, especially 
 with any sounds involving the rabbids. The music is generally easily forgettable, with a noteable 
 exception. The rythm game has fun songs to play to, and that is the only exception.
  
  The main question here is whether the game is fun and will last you an acceptable amount of time. 
 Well the story-mode will likely take you anywhere from 3-6 hours, depending on your skill, adaptive 
 capabilities and speed. That's not bad, considering that's how you unlock the minigames for multiplayer. 
 The multiplayer is very fun, and this is one of those games where you will want to pull out every 
 once in a while with friends just for the sake of mad fun. As for extras... well there are some 
 Challenges you can unlock, which usually consist of playing 3 different minigames in a row. Nothing 
 big, but more ways to score points in multiplayer (known as score mode) . These points unlock all 
 sorts of quirky bonus stuff, like random promo videos (that are funny) and artwork. These unlockables 
 are a definate bonus to a game that doesn't need an incentive of bonus features in order to be 
 fun.
  
  Overall, this game is a solid party game that is a worthy purchase for your Wii. Be warned though, 
 as amusing as this game is, it will likely not be worth your time unless you have at least one 
 person to play with, unless you are the type of person who is addicted to getting high scores, 
 which this game has plenty of that need to be exceeded. Enjoy.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Sound: 7/10
  Gameplay:8/10
  Value: 9/10
  
  OVERALL: 8.0 (8.0/10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrperson1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 4:31 am PT
Review:  after the recent price drop of rayman raving rabbids. i purchased it. needless to say it is a very 
 entertaining yet frustraing game.
  
  the pros - simple fun short mini games that you can do over and over again until you do it right
 
  
  the bad - touchy wiimote controls make some of the mini games such as the dancing stages a horrorible 
 experience.
  
  this game has a great look right off the bat. my family was mildly entertained by them rascally 
 rabbids.
  
  i only have 1 nunchuck but it appear that this game is a great party game.
  
  as far as the solo game story mode. its a great interduction on the place style.
  
  what 
 i like about this game is the fact it isnt time consuming. you can knock out a stage in one sitting. 
 which is ideal for someone like myself.
  
  with rayman raving rabbids 2 on the horzion things are looking good for the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicFreak2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  When I thought the Rayman games had bitten the dust Ubisoft came back and surprised us all. Rayman 
 Raving Rabbids has entertaining mini games that aren't just strange, theyre creative. They have 
 substance and that is what makes this game so much fun. This is an innovative use for the Wii remote. 
 You actually get to move around instead of just mashing buttons. It has great replay value and 
 if you play with two people it makes the game WAY more fun! The only thing that I think that Ubisoft 
 could have made better was adding an online feature. Rayman Raving Rabbids 2 looks like a definite 
 buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids gives you chuckles for obvious resons. A reguarly enforced weapon within 
 video game history makes its mark again in Rayman Raving Rabbids. The game is a mini-game one, 
 but is highly preferred over wario or mario party series. Cuztomize your rayman and set out in 
 an attempt to escape the rabbits or play multiplayer and get schooled by your little brother. Rayman 
 Raving Rabbits does'nt appeal to everyon ill be honest, but it does appeal to people who want a 
 good chuckle, people who are new to the wii and need some experience with the control scheme, and 
 rayman fans which we dont come by ever so often. Anyhow, i recommend this game its hilarious and 
 fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: powley
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 26, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  I didn't play it with friends so maybe that's where part of the difference lies.
  
  PERHAPS people get more jollies when everyone else is around playing together....? I have no idea 
 if that is part of why people like it or what. It must be.
  
  As for the game itself........... to me- I didn't find it overly fun at all. I just found it repetitive 
 and uninteresting. Too simple. Boring. Different game after different game.... none of them overly 
 interesting or exciting IMO. Kinda fun at first...... but to me it wore off very quickly. No lasting 
 appeal.
  
  I have nothing against pick up and play games........ but this one just left me cold. Even the Rabbids. 
 Kinda cute I guess. Kinda funny and silly and quirky. But at least to me...... nothing like what 
 everyone seems to make em out to be in these reviews. No big deal IMO.... didn't overly add anything 
 to the game. It still left me cold and uninterested and not wanting to play anymore.
  
  BTW I do have a sense of humor.............. I'm just writing this review fact for fact. (Jack)
 
  
  Don't get the hype. Wish I wouldn't have bought it. I want to sell it and get some money back. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameaddict190
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  This game is one of a kind. This game is really just a HUGE collection of funny little mini games. 
 Sometimes you get extremely angry at those cute little rabbids when you can't seem to beat one 
 of the games. Some of the games include throwing a cow, drawing food, shooting rabbids with plungers, 
 and dancing to a number of different songs. WARNING: this game is very addictive and great if you 
 have parties woot woot! Me and my friends love to play this game and you should really get this 
 game too, Im sure you will laugh your head of at the Rabbids antics and mini games. This game IS 
 NOT perfect but has a charm all its own and draws you in. Bye bye now =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Callysto
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  When I initially played this game I was immediately enamoured with it - even encouraged someone 
 to buy it based on about 30 minutes of gameplay. To be fair, for 30 minutes it is a great game.
 
  
  Having played Raving Rabbids through several repetitive rounds, I'm gonna have to give a disappointed 
 thumbs down on Would I purchase this . It's basically a game full of mini-games that you have to 
 work through to escape the evil bunnies. The games themselves are fun until the novelty of having 
 crazy bunnies staring back through the screen at you wears off. Then you realize that you're not 
 looking at anything vastly innovative.
  
  If the game were just a little less formulaic, I'd be sold. But as it stands - play four games 
 in an arena, play the boss level (invariably a House of the Dead style shooter) , go back to your 
 cell, repeat - it's not a justifiable way to spend my time when Twilight Princess is sitting on 
 the shelf next to the console.
  
  Another issue is how graphically challenged the game is when you're standing in the arena. The 
 ground is very jaggy and the bunny animation is awful. What can be expected for a launch title? 
 As it turns out, I expect the game to not look like it was made for a previous generation console.
 
  
  Having said my piece about the game's flaws, I will also point out everything about the Rabbids 
 themselves is brilliant. Watching a vacant-eyed bunny pop out of the bottom of the screen to stare 
 at me briefly brought little moments of delight when genuine interest in the game began to flag. 
 They are adorable in a nightmarish sort of way. The rabbids also make the game playable in small 
 doses - when you need a break from higher quality games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NFSspeeddemon
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 14, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids is a collection of extremely fun and challenging mini-games. In Rayman Raving 
 Rabbids you start off as Rayman trapped by a thousand crazy bunnies. Each day you enter a dome 
 with five doors. One door is chained up and the other four you have access to. Each door leads 
 to a mini-game. After completing three of the four mini-games the chained door opens and you have 
 access to the final mini-game of the day. This mini-game is usually a fun and exciting shooting 
 game in which you shoot plungers at bunnies. It goes on for at least three minutes and the pace 
 never dies down. The multi-player in Rayman Raving Rabbids isnt quiet as fun though. You can only 
 play the mini-games that you have completed in single player and they arent even that fun with 
 more than one person. Rayman Raving Rabbids is an excellent single player but shouldnt even have 
 multi-player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knuckles48
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best Rayman game in the series. Way better than Rayman Areana. And is the best party 
 game I ever played. Its fun getting to dress Rayman any way you want. But some of the mini games 
 are weird and quite hard. Such as the Bunnies are slow to react ones. There are also some simple 
 ones. Such as tossing a cow over 80 feet, hog races, milking cow, shooting bunnies with plungers and 
 much more.
  
  
  
  I prerfer getting this game if you like party games. But there are only 15 days of it. Each day has 
 5 tasks. If you want you can to 4 out of the 5 tasks. But do all 5 tasks and unlock musics and outfits. If 
 you do all 5 tasks on the last day (Day 15) you get a cow trophy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkrul3s
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 11, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game thinking that it would be a very fun game to play. Well it wasn't as fun as 
 I thought, but fun nonethesless.
  
  Gameplay: The game is basically all minigames. The story isn't that great. Some minigames you'll 
 never want to play again (cow tossing, fruit juice shotting, etc.) and some you'll love (fps plunger 
 shooting, hog racing, etc.)
  
  Graphics: The graphics are pretty decent, but they can become a bit iffy. There are very colorful 
 enviroments and it is very artistic. They could have been a lot better though.
  
  Sound: The sound is really nice. The game has great music tracks during the fun dancing stages 
 and hearing the bunnies scream never gets old.
  
  Value: Unless you are really into this game you won't be playing the multiplayer very much. In 
 the single-player you'll probably want to play your favorite minigames over and over again, but 
 not for long.
  
  Tilt: Overall this game is pretty fun, but it won't last you a while unless there is a minigame 
 that you hope becomes a feature length game.
  
  I'd reccomend that you rent this game and then decide if you really want this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supuhpapuhmario
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 9, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  This is a greaat game. It's very colorful and creative so it won't be likely too bore you. It has 
 over 70 minigames and I would say that most of them are funny though I'd add in that, some of these 
 mingames are soo frustrating and hard that it makes you want to destroy the game with a sledge 
 hammer. You might have to play a mingame over 10 times before you can move on. The graphics are 
 great because they are so smooth. The bunnies made you LOL and some times, it gets to the laughter 
 and then falls right down to silence. I would not recommend this game to a new gamer or someone 
 who is impatient. I'd recommend this game to someone who is very smooth with the wiimote. The good 
 part about this game is that some of the minigames are pretty long so you won't get bored of them. 
 You can just play them over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 9, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  Since I only have two titles for my Wii I thought I would rent a game that I had read used the 
 remotes of the wii better than most. Im happy I did because Rayman Raving Rabbids is a fun and 
 coocky game. I gathered from the story line that Rayman is captured by the rabbids and then subjected 
 to tests of skill. I liked the game art here because its kind of like a gladiator design with 
 Rayman being thrown into a coliseum and then choosing his path.
  
  The visuals in Rayman I believe are a bit rough. The min-games go pretty well, but it would have 
 been nice if the graphics matched better with how well the game was designed. But, the real gem 
 is the mini-games. Some are a bit too tough to me, but the sheer number and hilarious design of 
 a lot of them makes the whole package more than work while
  
  The multiplayer was fun but it would have been better if it allowed for multiple people playing 
 at the same time. Having to swap the remote to someone just felt a bit much since this would have 
 been a really cool party game. I guess thats whats being done in RRR2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarevoc1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 7, 2007 6:08 am PT
Review:  This is my wifes favorite Wii game and I would agree (with maybe the exception of Zelda: TP) . The 
 idiotic cartoon humor is hilarious and the vast array of games make it fun to replay time and again. 
 Each of the games very in difficulty as well, so even our daughter can enjoy the game, while my 
 wife and I enjoy the more challenging games. This game is a definite 10 in my book and I can't 
 wait for part 2.
  
  Pros:
  Great multiplayer
  Funny story lines
  Replayability
  Games for all ages / skill levels
  
  Cons:
  Stupid ending
  Some of the unlockable content 
 is stupid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barloc1337
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 5, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids marks the first time Rayman has hit the wii, but he is not alone. Rayman 
 must face the Rabbids in order to free his people, but in order to do this, he must accomplish 
 many mini games. This sounds like it could be a complete mario party rip-off, but with its original 
 taste in the games, this puts Rayman on top for the day. You will use the wii controls to complete 
 the games, these work very well, and make the game very fun to play. And once you complete the 
 games, you can then play them in multiplayer, which then makes the game very chaotic.
  
  Overall the graphics are very good, sure with rayman, but the rabbids steal the show completley. 
 The rabbids look very cute, deadly, and funny, all at the same time. With their TM GAHHHHHH line, 
 this should keep you in tuned to the game, and will give you a good laugh or two.
  
  Overall, if you have a wii, buy this game, invite a friend or two, and get your GAAHHHHHHH on. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packster
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 4, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  I truly love Rabbids, if this game did not have any... it really would not be as good. Rabiids rule, 
 and so do there mini games! Rayman's not a big part, i think he is supposed to be, but you really 
 focuse on the rabidds during gameplay. This game is really humorous and worth your time! The controls 
 for the Wii on this game are fun and unique, but, the game can get pretty darn hard!
  
  You take place as rayman, you get kidnapped by the rabbids, and are forced to do all of these tests, 
 and then after a day (after you collect the plunger and save the alien thingy) You go to a cell 
 and can reply mini games and listen to unlocked music until you want to go for another round of 
 tests. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomofsandwiche
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 2, 2007 5:58 am PT
Review:  this game is one of the funniest thiing you will ever play. throughout hte entirie game i was laughing 
 constantly and once you get all the costumes it gets even better. the bunnys are so eveil and so 
 cute at the same time it makes you want to hate and hug them at the same time. one of my favorite 
 minigames is when you have a contest to see who can a bunny in the head the hardest. theres also 
 a series of disco like minigames were you have the bunnies dance. my only complaints are that the 
 plunger shooting and disco games get old after a while . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squidboyrulez
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 31, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  This game is just a luagh, I expected it to be funny, but man, i found myself just losing, and 
 disqualifying in the mini games cuz i was luaghing and couldnt hold the remote steady, a fun party 
 game, needs some work on multiplayer though, thats what rr2 is or i guess, but good game, lots 
 of laughs, youll love the rabbids in no time, promise. iT IS A STRICT MINI GAME, PARTY GAME, NOT 
 MUCH A STORY, BUT THERES OVER 70 GAMES I PRESUME, ALL IN WHICH HAVE HUMOR AND MAY REQUIRE LUCK 
 OR SKILL. Not the best game in the world, but the loveable characters and fresh humor will keep 
 you playing till rabbids 2, and i am a long fan of mario party, but this gets right up there, the 
 fun minigames, without the boing board, ok, great game, look into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viictoriio
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  When you start the game for the first time the story is clear very fast. You're Rayman, captured; 
 friends kidnapped; free them. Ok, let's do that. Once you complete the first tests and final test 
 of the first day you end up in your cel. On from that point you start over again... and over... 
 and over... and...
  
  So from the third day on this is getting a little bit boring. The tests themselves also don't differ 
 a lot. In case all 4x14? tests were different this would be another case. But the dancing game 
 is allways the same, and the other tests return also.
  
  The difficulty is pretty easy. Since you only have to complete 3/4 tests a day in order to reach 
 the final tests. However, some tests in the final stages are pretty hard to complete, while others 
 are extremely easy. This is a huge difference.
  
  Although this game gets pretty boring when played alone during 1 hour or more... it's more fun 
 when playing with more players at once because of the hilaric tests and frustrating actions.
  
  Nice game, but don't expect too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poio1982
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 30, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  RABBIT INVASION !!!!!!!
  
  this game is halarius
  this game is a joke
  this game is funny
  this game is extreme
  this game is addictive
  this game is Wii
  this 
 game rocks
  thos rabbits are just crazy!
  and Rayman is just da man!
  single player mode in story rocks!
  multi player also rocks!
  This is like Resident Evil Umbrella 
 Chron. goes Rabbit
  i guess this game is kind of like the basic of video gaming,
  be fun and entretainment
  i guess one of the best games for the Wii
  
  i luv this game!
 
  
  and i do not rabbit care!
  
  RABBIT INVASION !!!!!!!
  RABBIT INVASION !!!!!!!
  RABBIT INVASION !!!!!!!
  RABBIT INVASION !!!!!!!
  RABBIT INVASION !!!!!!!
  RABBIT INVASION 
 !!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rolandx
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 29, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids is a game that consists of a lot of mini games, a lot of mini games with 
 Rabbids... So you play the game as Rayman, and the Rabbids have kidnapped you and made you a gladiator 
 for their entertainment. What you basically do is go through all these different mini games and 
 after you complete at least 3 of 4 mini games you are given each day you can go to the final game 
 of the day. After you complete the last game of the day you get a really useful thing. Guess what, 
 it's a plunger! Rayman's goal here is to stick the plungers up against a wall so he can climb out 
 his prison cell's window. And you need a lot of these plungers and you can only get them by completing 
 these mini games each day. All together the game looks really solid, and there are no visible glitches. 
 Since it's on the Wii you don't really expect no really great graphics, but this game does great 
 in that end, of course it's a little blurry at the background at times, but you really won't even 
 really notice it. The mini games, at least the most of them are really easy and I really think 
 that almost anybody can get through them. Before each mini game you get the instructions and that 
 eases your life a bit. The Wii Remote and the Nunchuck work really great in this game, the only 
 exception I had was with the ''Bunnies Have Natural Rhythm'' mini game where I at times just couldn't 
 hit anything. If you maybe get something like that it certainly won't spoil your overall gaming 
 experience. Overall this is a great and funny game with which you are guaranteed to have fun for 
 a really long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jliebel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 24, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids is a crazy mini game game, You play as Rayman a cool looking toon with no 
 arms or legs, who has been captured while on a picnic. You are thrown into an arena for the enjoyment 
 of the Rabbids who have captured you, and on your wacky way through the game they turn out to cheer 
 for you. Your goal in the arena is to get plungers and hopefully be returned to freedom.
  
  The game's graphics are nice and sharp but they are Wii graphics so you can't expect much from 
 it there. Wii is already showing how dated the graphics can be but the artists do a good job to 
 make this not be as big of a problem and the game does look smooth just not a power house in terms 
 of graphics.
  
  From crying, to the raging laughing of the Rabbids the audio is probably the best part of this 
 game, the sound tracks are to die for, and just the voices of the Rabbids will make you laugh time 
 and time again. It is the single reason that this game is awesome if you where to pick one.
  
  The controls are easy and instructions are told to you before each mini game, there are about 
 70 mini games in all. If there was one thing bad about this game is the controls seem to be very 
 iffy at times the Wii-Mote is very insensitive and others you just can't click on the screen.
 
  
  All in all this game is a blast from firing plungers at Rabbids to tossing cows this game is a 
 silly fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic3456
Rating: 3.7
Date: Aug 6, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Ok I picked this game up because of the reception, but I just didn't like it. Anyway liek the previous 
 games you play as rayman and you have been kidnapped by bunies, pretty lame story. Gameplay is 
 just stupid and boring i dont know how people think its fun. I will admit however thant the game 
 looks really nice. It sound is stupid, bad music and I dont think there is any voice acting. There 
 is no value to be had here dont play it over. Anyway even if you are the biggest rayman fan don't 
 play it because you will be extremly dissapointed because it isnt a very fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmoreangel
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 21, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  Let's make this clear I have never played a Rayman game ever, never even been close to playing 
 one so I was very surprised when I played it. You play as, duh, RayMan. While having lunch with 
 some friends in the woods they are all kidnapped by Rabbids and you are put in jail. The only way 
 you can get your friends back is to play 4 various mini-games per level, one always being a rhythm 
 based game. These mini-games all lead up to a battle or race against the Rabbids. Along the way 
 Rayman notices that the plungers he collects can be used to climb the wall of his jail cell. Leading 
 him to become more and more excited about taking on new challenges. He also gains a fan following 
 from the Rabbids. The mini-games are very fun but a few levels later you have to play that same 
 mini-game with more difficulty. Maybe it was just my Wii but at times it didn't respond to certain 
 controls leaving me very frustrated. Although that was a problem the lack of variety through repeating 
 the same games made it an even a bigger one. The game is very short. You can finish it maybe an 
 afternoon or 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HK-47-M4
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jul 20, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  I first got my Wii at the beginning of April. On the last day of April I finished Zelda and I wanted 
 a new game to play for May. Mario Party 8 looked good, but it didn't come out until the end of 
 May and I didn't want to wait that long. So I decided to check out some of the best titles available 
 on Wii. Eventually it came down to Rayman Raving Rabbids, Trauma Center: Second Opinion, Excite 
 Truck, and Super Paper Maro. For some reason I have never liked the Paper Mario Franchise so I 
 scrapped that one. I already had MotorStorm for the PlayStation 3 and I thought: MotorStorm has 
 more tracks, vehicles, better graphics, online play, plus it still had the motion sensing steering 
 control, so why bother with Excite Truck. Rayman seemed popular and Trauma Center didn't seem appealing 
 so I jumped for Rayman. Popping it in as soon as I got home, I had a fun time at first. Basically 
 Rayman is having a picnic, then a Giant Robot Rabbid comes and captures him while normal Rabbids 
 take away Rayman's friends. You are then thrown into a Gladiator Pit and must win a minimum of 
 3 Minigames to open a gate. There are four minigames in each level, after you finish 3 (Or 4) then 
 you must finish another Minigame in order to complete the level and win a plunger. You use the 
 plungers to build steps to climb up to a window high in your cell. As for the minigames, they are 
 fun at first, but as you get to the later levels the minigames are practically the same as previous 
 levels. They are just harder. This really takes the fun out of things. Most of the mingames are 
 hard to control even for hardcore gamers, leading to younger gamers, casuals, and newcomers unable 
 to complete the game. However alot of the minigames that must be completed to complete a level 
 are really fun. Especially the Rail-Shooters where you must shoot Rabbids with plungers before 
 they shoot you. These games are the only ones that don't get old and anybody, even your Grandma, 
 could have fun just pointing the Wii Remote at the Rabbids and pressing the B button to shoot. 
 However if you want to play these games with your friends, this isn't the game for you. You can 
 play with a friend in minigames you have unlocked, however in most of them you play this way: Player 
 1 goes first, then Player 2, limiting fun with friends.
  
  The graphics on this game are one of the best looking on the Wii. It runs in a 16:9 widescreen 
 presentation, but not in 480p. The sound is decent.
  
  For value, as said before, you will get no replayability except for the Rail-Shooters. But those 
 are so good they saved this game from a lower score.
  
  However the repetitive minigames, hardly any simultaneous multi-player, and hard minigames ultimately 
 put a bad taste in my mouth. My advice: Advoid this game except if you are a diehard Rayman or 
 Minigame Fanatic. The sequel to this game, Rayman Raving Rabbids 2, scheduled for release this 
 year looks promising. They are focusing on simultaneous multi-player minigames. The minigames look 
 great and hopefully these minigames will become easier. You could wait until it comes out then, 
 but if you want minigames now, your only choice is: WarioWare: Smooth Moves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philcorey
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 16, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  The title says it all. This game looks ok, sounds ok, but we don't really care about that sort 
 of stuff in this game. This game looks like it is dumb, but if you play it its awesome.
  
  The game really is a revolutionary thing. It is a game that calls for a lot of creativity and evolution 
 of gaming. There are hundreds of mini-games and puzzles to complete that make you do things with 
 a controller that have never been done before. The game play is really a blast, you dance, run, 
 shoot, and much more with the Wiimote. The whole game is really innovative and revolutionary in 
 many aspects.
  
  The Wii was designed for games like this. A lot of movement, intractability, and fun all done by 
 the player, not buttons. This is what the Wii was meant for. However, this type of game can only 
 be redone so much. The limited amount of game type you can have with the Wiimote will soon dry 
 up and the Wii will have to come out with a new controller that can be more flexible. Unfortunately 
 most games call for more than a remote can offer because you need more planes of movement than 
 what are given. Living proof of that is that the remote control doesn't replace game controllers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenriques
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 13, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  The game is just plain fun. The mini games are challenging and addictive. You just can't stop laughing 
 during the games. The bunnies are hilarious. It's great to play with family or friends, specially 
 the rhythm mini games. I found myself repeating some mini games after completing them just to laugh 
 at the bunnies. Time flies when you play this game, and that makes it look a bit short. Sometimes 
 the controllers don't make the games very easy, but they work ok... I can only recommend it. It's 
 definitely the best game I've played so far on the Wii. It's just too funny to miss. Can't wait 
 for Rayman Raving Rabbids 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 11, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Every once in a while a game comes out that I know my girlfriend might like and when my girlfriend 
 is happy playing games, that means I can play games. Rayman Raving Rabbids for the Wii was such 
 a game. Watching her play such a simplistic game was funny and it was fun to see her make her way 
 through the mini games. The game was perfect for her but seemed shallow to me as I played my PC 
 games, watching her whenever there was a loading screen or when she cracked up. Then came the point 
 where she was stuck and she asked me to help her out. I forgot exactly what mini game it was but 
 all it took was that single time playing it and I was hooked. I quickly had my game saved and was 
 watching her play every single match, every time she failed at something, I would ask if I could 
 take a whack at it. More often than not shed tell me she wanted to do it but every once in a while 
 she let me play. Soon after she left for the day I found myself starting up my own save and going 
 through the game myself.
  
  Storywise well there really is no story. You start as Rayman on a picnic with some strange looking 
 creatures, when all of a sudden youre attacked by man sized rabbids, who quickly capture you. 
 They imprison the little blue creatures and toss you in a gladiatorial pit full of mini games. 
 Each day you play, you are confronted with 5 mini games, 4 short ones and a big one at the end. 
 By beating the four challenges for the day, you unlock costumes and music, but beating the big 
 one, you win a plunger which you will use to escape your cell. Every match you finish in the story 
 mode unlocks the game in Score Mode, where you and some friends can compete for bragging rights 
 and to unlock even more stuff in the games bonus section. Graphics are pretty good but there are 
 a few cases of slowdown and a lot of jaggies. I never liked the character design of Rayman but 
 the rabbids for the most part are amusing. Raving Rabbids isnt even close to being a graphics 
 intensive game so its easy to just sum it up as the game is adequate in this area.
  
  Sound wise the game is enjoyable and funny. The sound effects of the rabbids during certain games 
 are hilarious and the music equally silly and funny. Its a combination that works perfectly in 
 the environment of this game.
  
  The use of the Wii remote is where this game really shines. So far I own two Nintendo first party 
 games and Raving Rabbids finds ways to use the remote that Nintendo didnt on those games. Youll 
 pump your arms to run, hold the remote up to your ear to listen while walking around with the nunchuk, 
 spin the remote over your head like a lasso and a bunch more innovative ways the remote is utilized. 
 This game is perfect on the Wii and I couldnt imagine this game being nearly as fun on any other 
 system. In the end this game isnt deep, theres no story worth writing about and the graphics 
 are simply good but I guess this is the kind of game Nintendo was going for all along. A little 
 title that puts the fun and simplicity back into games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmonkey012
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 6, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  In this game, Rayman leaves his plat-former days for a collection of fun and hilarious mini-games.
 
  
  THE GOOD: The funniest game you will ever play until Rayman Raving Rabbids 2 comes out, over 70 
 mini-games that will keep you busy and laughing, you only need one wii-mote and nun chuck to play 
 multi-player, pretty good graphics and sound.
  
  THE BAD: They could have added a few more mini-games, once you play the game you will probably 
 only play the multi-player.
  
  OVERALL: A good, funny game with good multi-player, well worth 50 dollars, we could use more games 
 like this, I cannot wait until Rayman Raving Rabbids Two Comes Out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sieg6529
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 5, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Rayman's Raving Rabbids (RRR) is the first game I bought for the Wii, and it was a great purchase. 
 While not much on depth, it has a lot to offer to both gamers and non-gamers alike.
  
  First and foremost the Rabbids must be discussed. They look like demented rabbits with no noses, 
 googly eyes, and big mouths with just two spaced incisors. When agitated, they yell DAAAAH! and 
 the eyes turn red (sometimes) . Each minigame in RRR is based on the characteristics of Rabbids 
 (Bunnies don't brush their teeth, Bunnies don't know what to do with cows, Bunnies are fantastic 
 dancers, Bunnies have a great ear for music, etc.) . So the Rabbids abduct Rayman and the Globox 
 Kids (whatever the fun they are) . Rayman is forced to compete in these strange Rabbid Olympics 
 in between time spent in his cell, to which he is escorted by an obese Darth Vader-like Rabbid. 
 The furnishings in Rayman's cell become much nicer as you progress.
  
  Once in the arena, Rayman gets to choose which of 4 gates to enter. Each one presents a unique 
 challenge (the rightmost gate always being a dancing game) . This is where RRR really shines. The 
 controls are used in extremely unique and intuitive ways. For example, to whack a Rabbid on the 
 head with a shovel requires only that you point to the target and flick your wrist downwards; no 
 buttons required! A horizontal flick is similarly used to keep the outhouses from opening (Bunnies 
 never close doors) , because you don't want to be shot by a plunger gun. Speaking of which, that 
 brings up my favorite recurring minigame. After completing 3 of the 4 challenges available to Rayman 
 in the arena (per Day) , the central gate opens. Within is usually a Bunny Hunting game, a la Area 
 51 or House of the Dead. In fact, the latter game is spoofed quite well in the Bunnies Don't Rest 
 in Peace level. In these games, Rayman is armed with a plunger gun and he must survive Rabbids 
 armed with the same, as well as spatulas, sausages, and spiked clubs. The objective is to survive 
 the Rabbid onslaught and rescue the Globox Kid at the end, usually by defeating some projectile 
 launching machine. The Not-so-good: The only graphical complaint I have is regarding the stadium 
 bunnies. Most of them are like cardboard cutouts that have 2 frames of animation, while the rest 
 look good. Regarding sound, music, and controls, no real complaints. However, I will say that the 
 Rabbid Hunting mini-games (the ones that come at the end of each Day) could benefit from more weapon 
 variety. Also, some of the mini-games are disproportionately difficult for their order of encounter. 
 For example, the cow tossing game is probably a little technical for 1st time users. I know several 
 people who were put off by RRR just because of that. The game should have started out by hitting 
 Rabbids with a shovel as they peak out of their burrows. Lastly, $50 does seem like a lot for a 
 mini-game compilation. Also, the nunchuk attachment is required, so somebody may have to shell 
 out $20 for multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aznboi66
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 1, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  I know, anyone that hasn't played this game has three straight phrases in their mind. What the 
 hell? Yes, you're rayman, you play crazy minigames involving bunnies whether it's smacking them 
 for singing offkey, kicking them at a soccer goal, or pulling worms from their teeth. In this coliseum-esque 
 story line your goal is to play at least two minigames and do the shootemup challenge and earn 
 a plunger at the end of the day in order to build a plunger ladder to escape from your cell. But 
 as you get better and better in the game and blaze through the days, you notice your dank living 
 conditions transform into a pimped out pad. If you have the prowess to play all three games of 
 the day rather than just the mandatory two you'll start to unlock some cool things. Outfits, records 
 for your jukebox in your cell and other things. I can say this with the utmost confidence. Never 
 have I looked so stupid and had so much fun at the same time. Go do yourself a favor and pick this 
 one up, great for having a laugh by yourself, or with family and friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: argianas
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 30, 2007 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Ubisoft was one of the earliest supporters of the Wii, and intended to get a new Rayman platformer 
 done in time for the launch. After the developers got a hold of the Wii remote, they decided it 
 would be perfect for a minigame compilation and shifted all their resources towards that. Unfortunately, 
 every other publisher came to the same exact conclusion, leaving Raving Rabbids in a seriously 
 over represented genre on the system. What does Raving Rabbids do to distinguish itself from the 
 rest? Rabbids, lots and lots of Rabbids. They certainly turn out to be the stars of the show, and 
 the games themselves are pretty good as well.
  
  The story mode, which is merely a string of minigames used to unlock minigames for other modes, 
 starts out with Rayman having a picnic with his globox pals. They are interrupted by burrowing 
 Rabbids - buck-toothed, accident prone rabbits with blank stares, a tendency to scream incoherently, 
 and bent on world domination. They capture Rayman and force him to participate in gladiatorial-style 
 minigames for their amusement. Rayman obviously wants no part of this and is working on a means 
 of escape. To do so Rayman has to amuse the Rabbids by winning and receiving plungers as awards, 
 which the Rabbids have an odd attraction towards. These can then be stuck to the walls and used 
 as a ladder in his cell to reach a window high above. Other than that, there's really no story 
 .
  
  There are 15 days of competitions, with four minigames open for play. You must meet a designated 
 time or score on three of the four, at which point the final game of the day opens up. The final 
 minigame is sometimes a race, but is often an on-rails shooter in which Rayman uses a plunger-shooting 
 gun to attack invading Rabbids in different settings. The Rabbids of course use plunger guns themselves 
 to attack you, and often are wearing costumes that match up with their various settings. In an 
 old ghost town from the Wild West, the Rabbids often wear cowboy hats. In a night setting, some 
 wear the Sam Fisher night goggles. There's a whole range of Rabbids - ninja Rabbids, robotic Rabbids, 
 maid Rabbids, snorkeling Rabbids, and so forth. While not the hardest of games, they are rather 
 satisfying, especially when you get a headshot and the blind Rabbid looks around in confusion.
 
  
  The other minigames have a wide range of game styles. One of the four available minigames on each 
 day is a dancing game. A rather simple rhythm game, they are set to a wonderful selection of music 
 and features disco dancing Rabbids. What's not to love about that? With music ranging from La Bamba 
 to Girls Just Want to Have Fun, the tracks are just amusing and fit in well with the game's overall 
 craziness.
  
  Other minigames include a whack-a-mole style game, kicking a Rabbid into a soccer goal, squirting 
 advancing Rabbids with carrot juice, and tossing a cow as far as possible. There is also a pattern 
 of Rabbids taking a lot of punishment - they're comically bashed and beaten every other minute. 
 The one problem with the story mode is that a lot of the minigames tend to repeat themselves in 
 the later half, often being the same exact game with a slightly added difficulty. As mentioned, 
 one of the four minigames on each of the 15 days is the dancing game, and there are just a total 
 of seven songs used.
  
  There is also a score mode, which allows you to play unlocked minigames to shoot for as high of 
 a score as possible, with various minor awards when you reach certain cumulative best scores. This 
 will undoubtedly be the most-played single-player mode once the story mode is done, as there is 
 little incentive to replay it. The multiplayer is also hit-or-miss. Some of the games cannot be 
 played simultaneously, instead just having the players play one after another and the one with 
 the higher score wins. The others do allow simultaneous play, and can be rather fun.
  
  The graphics look decent for a launch game, but there are a few flaws. While the art style is great, 
 especially the design and the antics of the Rabbids, the fact that it is a launch title shows at 
 a few points. One is certainly in the arena, where some cheering Rabbids in the crowd just repeat 
 three frames over and over rather slowly, which really sticks out. It's decent for a GameCube game, 
 but more could have certainly been done on the Wii. The sound is a little better, with the slightly 
 modified music from the dancing games certainly fits well with the mood. The random screaming of 
 the Rabbids is the kind of thing that would normally be annoying, but somehow turns out being endearing. 
 They also make comical noises when they get repeatedly bashed. Otherwise, nothing else really stands 
 out.
  
  Chances are you'll love Raving Rabbids if only for the Rabbids, which alone is just about enough 
 to justify a purchase. Unfortunately they are featured in a minigame compilation on a system that 
 is flooded with them, but it gives you a chance to interact with the maniacal little critters in 
 a wide range of crazy ways. It does stand out as one of the best of the many minigame compilations, 
 using the Wii remote in rather creative ways in many games. Even those that do not normally like 
 Raving Rabbids would probably want to consider giving the game a try, as even if you do not like 
 the gameplay then at least you can enjoy the Rabbids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anonymoe
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 29, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Solid mini-game collection with good Wii support; bunnies are hilarious; Good art design; 
 Fantastic sound; Support for 4 players in many mini-games
  
  Cons: Mini-games get recycled numerous times towards the end of the game; Too short; Story doesnt 
 make much of a presence; Too easy to beat story mode It was definitely no small surprise when Ubisoft 
 announced that its next Rayman game would be a mini-game collection instead of a platformer. Some 
 were disappointed, some were curious (mostly because it would be the first of its kind on the Wii) . 
 Those who havent found out yet, rest assured, this is a solid mini-game collection, albeit a short 
 one. The story is a simple one. One day Rayman is having a picnic with baby Globoxes, and suddenly 
 everyone gets captured by a group of evil bunnies. Rayman is then forced to compete in challenges 
 to entertain the rabbits. The more challenges he completes, the more popular he gets, eventually 
 making his prison cell a lot more roomy even. And more importantly, the further he gets, the more 
 plungers (yes you read that right, plungers) he gets to build a ladder to escape from his room. 
 The challenges are the mini-games themselves. They all use the Wiimote (and usually nunchuck) in 
 some way. Most of them are as simple as pointing at something and shaking the nunchuck, or alternating 
 the nunchuck and wiimote up and down back and forth rapidly. But then there are some truly ingenious 
 challenges that mix together activities into something completely different. My personal favorite 
 is a game where you are in a juice bar, and rabbits are walking up from the ocean in scuba masks, 
 and you must fill those masks with carrot juice by pointing at them, and shaking the nunchuck up 
 and down. The result is chaos that is much easier said than done. Another fun example is when Rayman 
 is trying to sneak up on the leader rabbit, and when his back is turned you must alternate the 
 nunchuck and Wiimote up and down to move forward, then hell give you a warning and turn around, 
 during which you must quickly aim the Wiimote at the center of the screen inside a newly created 
 circle and follow the circle making sure to stay inside until he turns back around. There are two 
 mini-games that are based off of other genres, that show up almost all the time. One is an on-rails 
 shooter that tasks you with shooting plungers at the rabbits to make it to the end of the stage 
 to rescue a baby Globox. It is quite solid and the Wiimote support really helps sell the mini-game. 
 The other one is a dancing mini-game in which you shake the Wiimote and nunchuck up and down as 
 rabbits pass over 2 pads (one on the left for the nunchuck, one on the right for the wiimote) to 
 the rhythm of the song. Its simple, but watching the rabbits and Rayman all dance in synchronization 
 is hilarious (try to watch Rayman and 9 rabbits air guitar at the same time without breaking out 
 laughing) . And to make things better, the songs have a rabbit twist to them. Surprisingly, the 
 songs sound quite good, and many of them (such as Girls Just Wanna Have Fun and this one rap 
 song) have an added humor value with rabbits singing. Actually all the rabbits sound is handled 
 masterfully in the game. The rabbits have a shout that hits just the right note to be funny, yet 
 never get droning and annoying. The rabbits themselves are just a hoot, which is what really makes 
 this mini-game collection worth trying out (the mini-games are fun, but you could find several 
 other mini-game collections on the Wii) . They are incredibly stupid, seem to enjoy plungers, and 
 have the most cartoony face and make the most hilarious noises. Actually as with the rabbits noises, 
 the design is just right. Their large color changing eyes, the mouth thats small when theyre 
 calm, yet huge when they are shouting, it fits so well. And they wear costumes. Youll see them 
 dressed as cowboys, as indians, as pirates, as hula dancers, even as Sam Fisher (from Splinter 
 Cell) . Other than the rabbits, everything holds up fairly well. Rayman isnt exactly an exciting 
 protagonist, but the costumes he gets are crazy fun as well. Unfortunately even with the great 
 art design, the game does suffer a bit from blocky graphics. I know the Wii is less powerful than 
 the 360, PS3 and computers everywhere, but it can handle smoother images than this game. In the 
 end, RRR is just plain fun. Its the ultimate rental if you are having a party. It is fantastic 
 in art design, sound, and humor. The mini-games are fun, even though they arent too varied and 
 dont have anything (such as I dunno, board sections) to fill in the spaces. And because the game 
 is 100% mini-games, the hilarious experience wont last you longer than you can rent the game anyway. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesemonkey199
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  this is the sort of game that could appeal to almost anybody but yet it's such a good game as well.
 
  
  the game starts of reasonably well and it puts you once again in the shoes of rayman who has to 
 fight his way through the hordes of evil (and funny) rabbids.
  but it is not as easy as it sounds. instead of 3D platformer game you get 3d collection of mini-games.
 
  
  OK i know what your thinking but this isn't as bad as it sounds. there are about 80 mini-games 
 (with emphasis on the dancing ones) spread across 15 days. each day consists of 4 small games and 
 the boss stage. you can unlock the boss stage after 3 complete games but if you do the fourth you 
 get something extra for your cell.
  
  your prison cell is your central hub and from there you can do different things.
  you can dress 
 rayman and mix and match with outfits, you can listen music that you have unlocked on the jukebox, 
 you can sit on the bog and play any games that you have done so far, and as you progress through 
 the game your cell becomes a home with upgraded items and you earn respect from the rabbids. the 
 rabbids themselves basically steal the show from rayman with their dumb humour and funny antics. 
 overall this game is definitely worth it and even better if you like humour in your games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poost
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 22, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  The thing that stands out most about RRR is its great variety of mini-games. Each game takes anywhere 
 from 20 seconds to 3-4 min. The single player mode has you beat three of four mini-games every 
 level, in order to gain access to a boss mini-game, which is usually a racing or fps game. The 
 game makes great use of the Wii Remote, such as swinging the remote above your head like a lasso 
 in order to toss a cow as far as possible, or moving the nunchuck up and down to pump orange juice 
 that you spray at incoming Rabbids with the remote.
  
  The Rabbids make hilarious noises in most of the games, and the overall personality of the Rabbid 
 population makes the game laugh-out-loud funny. One game has you shutting outhouse doors as fast 
 as possible so the rabbids inside don't notice you peeking in. Another has you roll a ball (the 
 pain response) through a maze (in the brain of a rabbid) so that he can react to getting beaten 
 in the head with a giant club.
  
  The single player story mode may take about 10 hours to complete, with about 60-70 mini-games total. 
 There is an arcade mode where you play the mini-games for the highest scores to earn points to 
 unlock bonus material. The arcade mode gives the game a high replay value. RRR falls behind in 
 its clunky multiplayer mode. Most of the games don't allow multiple players to play at one time. 
 Instead, each player plays the game in succession until all the players have gone. There are, however, 
 a handful of games that can be played simultaneously.
  
  If you are looking for a game that involves physical movement of the Wii-mote in fun and interesting 
 ways, and want a great laugh (at the expensive of some raving rabbids) then I definitely recommend 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RidersDX
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 22, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Hmm, how many mini game collections are there on the Wii? At least ten of them right now. If you're 
 looking for great multiplayer fun, you usually would turn to the Wii most of the time. But, the 
 fact that there are alot of them, it gets really tiering to see party game after party game coming 
 out. So, when people saw this game, oh god. Not another party game! But, most of them have been 
 pretty good. Rayman Raving Rabbids happens to be one of them.
  
  The story all starts out with our hero Rayman having a little picnic with his little toad friends. 
 All of sudden, they fall into holes that appear out of nowhere and then the Rabbids come out of 
 them. Then, a very big and fat rabbid comes and grabs Rayman and starts walking out of the park. 
 Rayman finds himself in a stadium full of rabbids as the audience. Rayman apparently is forced 
 to perform in activities the rabbids demand him to do for entertainment. Every single time he finishes 
 a little boss minigame, he gets a plunger. He later finds out what they are for. As he had figured 
 out a way to use them to come out. Some Rayman is off, performing all the crazy tasks. The gameplay 
 contains over sixty minigames that, you guessed it, make creative use of the Wii Remote. The game 
 also includes a nunchuck also. And most of them require it's use. Most of the minigames are fun. 
 But alot of them repeat the same formula from other games. All of them are way too similar to other 
 games. Like the one where you shake the Wii Remote and Nunchuck. There are at least five mini games 
 that use that formula. The dancing minigames are the funnest minigames in this little game. They 
 are challenging and fun. Plus simultaneous. Yeah, this game really isn't the best option for multiplayer. 
 They game has alot of alternating minigames. Where you take turns doing them. Which is a downside. 
 But overall, the gameplay is great.
  
  Graphics aren't impressive. They are basic. Not bad. But not great either. The character models 
 are very basic. The environments are very basic too. That doesn't mean they're bad though. There 
 are times when the graphics are awesome. There aren't many of them though. The sounds is the best 
 part of the game. It has an awesome soundtrack. Including the songs in the dancing minigames. The 
 voices for the rabbids were one of the best things in the game. They made the rabbids sound so 
 funny. It fits them perfectly.
  
  Overall, is this another great choice for the Wii? Yes! It is! Not for multiplayer but it is still 
 a solid title. Here hoping the sequel will fix all the problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veeblefester
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 22, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  I knew I had picked out a good Wii game as soon as I fired it up and a rabbit ran across the screen 
 screaming  At many times, this game accually makes you fall out 
 of your seat. Whether it be because you have to continuosly wack a rabbit in the head with a hammer 
 and see how big of a bump you can give him, or because you have to pull worms out of a rabbits 
 decaying cavity-infested teeth. The Wii controls work exceptionally well in this game. At times, 
 the pointer can get a little stupid but all in all, this is a must for all Wii owners even if you 
 don't like Rayman games. LONG LIVE THE  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dumbgrim
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 22, 2007 2:33 am PT
Review:  Rayman is back, AND this time he has to save his world from demonic little rabbits! After being 
 captured and enslaved in a gladiato-style arena, Rayman must work his way through four challenges 
 each day to entertain the crowd and save his friends. If he wins, he earns plungers. why the hell 
 is it plungers? Well, to understand that you must wonder what a plunger can be used for, other 
 than the obvious. It can be used to make ladders. Who would have thought? Once he has made the 
 ultimate plunging ladder, Rayman is able to escape the cartoonish version of gladiator and save 
 the world.
  The game does not take a different angle from its predecessors where, instead of the usual arcade 
 style, Ubisoft has veered off to a version of mini games featuaing 70+ small, but highly addictive, 
 trials taht range from spraying bunnies in scuba gear with carrot juice ('carrotaholic' bunnies) , 
 to waving around your wii remote, making rayman dance, from pop to hip-hop. Otherchallenges include 
 whirling your remote around your head like a lesso, throwing a cows as far as you can and, with 
 the same unfortunate bovine, shaking the remote up and down to milk old Bessie.
  Making use of a wide array of abilities, Rayman must also enlist the aid of magical creatures such 
 as sharks, angelfish, or even eagles and rhinos. R. R. R. will definitely not be repetive, as each 
 challenge sports a different controll set, keeping you on your toes throughout the game. You get 
 to test your aim by pointing your wii remote at targets on the screen and you get to wave it arounf 
 like a wand. Watch out not to do it in front of your friends until you have mastered the art. You 
 may end up looking like a Harry Potter clone.
  This game is hilariosly fun and addictive game, leaving fans of the series satisfied after a hard 
 day's gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellwitlife
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 18, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion based on other votes This game is not getting all it's glory! Rayman: Raving Rabbids 
 sums up what this console is about. It was the first great multiplayer minigame for the Wii. Everything 
 else that did the mini-game scheme before the exception of Mario Party 8 just sucked. Monkey Ball, 
 Sonic Secret Rings, and others tried to do it, but none were nearly as funny, clever or innovative 
 as this game!
  
  You are The hero Rayman once again, and this time you are plunged (literally.... being that plungers 
 are like the universal symbols of power in this game which is funny right there) into a Gladiator 
 type of arena where you must compete in games to entertain the colliseum of bunnies who have captured 
 you. You start off everytime leaving your cell when your ready to play and a big hairy giant bunny 
 escorts hurls you into the arena. Later on he respects you enough to not lay a hand on you and 
 just accompanies you to the game arena.
  
  There are tons of minigames with their own addictive qualities. It can be a memory game where you 
 touch bunnies in a Simon Says kinda scenario, to milking cows, cutting fur off sheep by shaking 
 the nunchuk, cow tossing, and my favorite a simulated DDR/Guitar Hero type dancing game where when 
 a bunny aligns with the floor pad you shake either the nunchuk or wiimote corresponding to the 
 side he appears on, and that is just loads of fun. At the end of each wave you usually race a warthog 
 which is ok or do a first person shooter Rayman style where the bunnies dance and you catch 'em 
 off guard. sometimes bunnies are dressed up as Sam Fischer in stealth gear being that it's Ubisoft, 
 and one appears dressed like a dysfunctional Superman.
  
  This game utilizes the Wii technology to a T. Not too complicated and engaging enough to keep you 
 interacting with it on all levels. This game is Superior on the Wii console because of the motion 
 sensor technology that XBOX 360 does not have and I would not recommend it for other consoles if 
 released in the future.
  
  The Sound is really good and music when needed gets you into the game. The bunnies scream alot 
 but there's alot of comical scenes and it's brilliant.
  
  Graphics, very nice not really flashy but enough to capture everything in this bizzarro type gameplay. 
 There's alot of comedic non-verbal slapstick jokes. This game is great for multiple people after 
 you unlock the game in story mode 4 players can compete and it's just really really fun. Like I 
 said besides Mario Party 8 this is a very good multiplayer fun innovative way to use the Wii that's 
 not so cheesy but makes you wanna play again and again. Get this game if you Have a Wii, if you 
 don't get one then get it because for other systems, it really doesn't pay off at all. It's a Must 
 have Wii Classic!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto703
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 17, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  This is a great party! The gameplay is varies but sometimes can feel like you are doing the same 
 thing over and over and over again. Also for some minigames the gameplay is just a little too sensitive. 
 However I doubt you will throw your remote out of frustration. The gameplay is good. The graphics 
 are also good. I don't have much to say in this category. I don't have much to say for the sound 
 either. The value is something to talk about though. There is ptactically no story and a very short 
 adventure. It does have some great multiplayer in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordsman117
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 16, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids, like any other game for the Wii, is a party game. It's composed of 70 or 
 so mini games that will keep you entertained for hours if not make you laugh out loud. This is 
 one of those games that use the Wii's motion sensing ability in so many different, yet creative 
 ways. Having said all this, Rayman Raving Rabbids is a unique, funny and sometimes even cute, if 
 not creepy, assortment of games.
  
  The game's strong point does not rely on it's graphics but rather how creative and fun the mini 
 games are. As we all know, the Wii cannot compete in the graphics department so instead of relying 
 on this, the developers that makes a game for the Wii has to be creative and innovative. Hence, 
 resulting in this kind of game, Rayman Raving Rabbids is a true testament of gameplay over graphics. 
 It proves that the graphics is not the only selling point of these kinds of game. Rayman Raving 
 Rabbids is just compose mini games that usually lasts a few minutes or so, some are even less than 
 a minute. And this is for a good reason, wielding the wiimote can give the player all sorts of 
 aches depending on what the control is use for. A good example is one of the mini games objective 
 is to deliver the package in an allotted time, doing so, the control scheme requires the player 
 to shake the Nunchuk and the Wiimote alternately as if running. Repeat the process constantly and 
 it can lead to some muscle aches on both arms. Having to repeat the process all over, the game 
 can get repetitive with some variations to it. It definitely gets tougher and sometimes frustrating 
 as the player progresses through the game. And the only flaw of the game is the lack of replay 
 ability, once youre finish or bored with the game, it goes back to the shelf.
  
  In the end, Rayman Raving Rabbids succeeds not because of the mini games but the overall charm 
 that the game has, which is those cute, annoying and practically hysterical Rabbids that are overly 
 obsessed with plungers. It is clearly a party game and is meant to be played with other people. 
 In other words, its more of a rental than a purchase. But if youre aching for some good time, 
 definitely check this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_flog
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 15, 2007 11:22 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving rabbids is a fun mini game collection that will leave you rolling on the floor. If 
 you are new to the wii it is a good game to rent to get acclimated to the controls. But if you 
 play through the story mode you may find playing the mini games again in score mode just a bunch 
 of repitition. As you begin to finish the game you feel the same rythem used twice literally in 
 the case of one of the minigames.
  Overall though Raving Rabbids is a solid mini game collection and a major step forward for the 
 wii in the control sense. If this is a sign of things to come then the wii was the best $250 i've 
 ever spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 15, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  If you got a Wii at launch, what was your first choice? Well, Zelda obviously, but what about your 
 second choice? No, not Red Steel. Well Rayman Raving Rabbids, could easily be the second best launch 
 title for the Wii and seems tailor made for Nintendo's quirky box.
  
  It's a departure from the Rayman series, in that instead of platforming, it's a mini-game collection.
 
  
  In this story, we find our limbless pal having a picnic with his Globox friends (they look like 
 frogs to me) . When suddenly a bunch of evil, noseless bunnies pop up from the ground and drag our 
 hero away to an arena where he has to perform in mini-games to earn his freedom. Yeah, there isn't 
 much story to speak of.
  
  The mini-games themselves are fun and absurd and are a great demo for the Wii's abilities. Everything 
 is here from the basic point and shoot function, to nunchuck shaking to using the built in speaker. 
 Some games are hilariously fun, some will make your arms tired and some can be downright frustrating. 
 When you enter the arena, you have 4 games to choose from one of which is always a disco dancing 
 rhythm game. Finish three and the 5th door will open. This game is usually an on rails first person 
 shooter where you shoot plungers at the rabbids. This is stil the best FPS for the Wii right now. 
 Finish all games in a day's level and you can unlock cool tracks and fun costumes for Rayman including 
 a granny, DJ, rapper and goth outfit.
  
  RRR isn't going to win awards for graphics. It looks pretty last gen, luckily the innovative gameplay 
 makes up for it. The other big draw is the Rabbids themselves. They're crazy. They like to scream 
 and hit each other with blunt objects. They also have an obession with plungers. They just make 
 the game laugh out loud funny.
  
  Overall I think this is still the best mini-game collection for the Wii. There were a few minor 
 complaints with precise movement and the multiplayer feels limited at times. Hopefully these complaints 
 will be remedied in the upcoming sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 14, 2007 11:12 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game was gonna be a lot worst, but when I played it at my friends house, it wasn't 
 half bad. The dance games were the worst part for me, but to my friend they were easy. lol you 
 can also kind of get a work out on these games when you gotta do the mini games where you gotta 
 shake the numchucks really fast. After awhile it can hurt your arms a little bit, but you get used 
 to it. The mini games a really dorky, but they are fun too. You can also win costumes. The only 
 downfall to the game is that the numchucks can be a little unresponsive sometimes when your playing 
 a game. The rabbits can be a pain in the ass sometimes with their little screams. That can be easy 
 to ignore though when you play a couple of times. Rayman comes in as a loser and then later becomes 
 a star of the arena and your room can change a bunch. The shooting games have to be the best part 
 though 
::::::

::::::
UserName: link15000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 11, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Raman raving rabbids is the newest addition to the rayman platforming series that I haven't played 
 before. And there is only one thing to say. THESE BUNNIES ARE FREAKING INSANE!!!!! One day Rayman 
 and some of his buddies are having a picnic, but the rabbids come and kidnap him and his friends, 
 and force Rayman to about 80 mini-games. Which range from easy, like gliding him threw smoke rings, 
 to hard, like sraying carrot jucie at attacking rabbids, to dancing to girls just wanna have fun 
 , to shooting bunnies with plungers. The verity of mini-games is outstanding. the graphics are 
 good, with great lighting. Sound design also makes a proud showing. Espescially in the fun as heck 
 dancing parts. And the multiplayer is also very good. Now for the poopers of this crazy (house) 
 party. Some of the mini-games, like the carrot jucie spraing one, tire you out quickly. which make 
 those mini-games to hard to do. And on the flip side of that coin, some of the mini-games are so 
 easy that it kinda inbalinces the rest of the game as well. but overall, this is well worthy addition 
 to your new Wii colection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodjoe921
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 10, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  My question is how can a guy make a game about bunnies and turn it into one of the funniest games 
 yet?
  This game really isn't all that bad it's a preety good!
  Not to mention how funny it is!
  And whats even better is this game is not that hard!
  So if 
 you have a Nintendo Wii and you don't have this game I suggest geting it!
  If your looking for a good laugh!
  With over 60 halirious mini games!
  You'll be laughing your 
 head off!
  But wait theres more, this game is a multiplayer!
  So you and your friends will be having the time of there lives playing this game because it's soo 
 funny!
  -Bodjoe921- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seifer_Randas
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 9, 2007 11:17 pm PT
Review:  Though RRR has a fairly short story mode, the challenge mode will keep you playing the game longer 
 to beat high scores and such. The game is a lot more fun with more people but it isn't so bad if 
 you're alone. The Rabbids are what actually make this game. They're hilarious in every aspect: 
 looks, actions, sounds, etc. Some of the minigames are just ridiculous, but this is what makes 
 this game different from other party games. Overall, I had some non-stop laughs with this game, 
 and it was a little more than what I was expecting. This made me realize that not all games need 
 good story lines to be entertaining. I mean come on, what other games enable you to have mentally 
 challenged rabbits dancing to disco, or playing a fps with a plunger gun fighting rabbits dressed 
 in armor full of pots and pans. That said, rent this title first, then when you're in the mood 
 for it again hopefully it'll be in the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Oogie
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 8, 2007 11:03 pm PT
Review:  The games were fun and innovative the game is short but you will have fun with it especially with 
 two players or more and there are many games to choose from the only problems I had with the games 
 was the other many games you had to earn with points which still doesn't make sence to me so I 
 gave up and headed to the games in and the second disapointment was the ending when you get freed 
 but then you notice you forgot your friends and u go back and get stuck. So the game is not for 
 the story but you'll have fun shooting sneaking and other stuff 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steelersrule56
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 2, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  When I was questioning what mini-game game I wanted for the Wii, Raving Rabbids was my last choice. 
 But after watching the mini games of all the games, RR seemed to have the best and most creative ( 
 I looked at Warioware, Super Monkey Ball, and Mario Party 8) . And don't think just because Rayman 
 isn't known for mini-games as much as the other ones that it's the worst. The gameplay is very 
 addicting and hilarious and is definitely a great game for multiplayer. Sure, the campaign is short 
 and fairly easy but playing score mode is just as enjoyable. And unlike Warioware, these games 
 are more than 3 seconds long. And there is much variety in the games. Every game is different in 
 it's own way ( except the harder versions) . From shooting rabbids with plungers to launching a 
 cow as far as you can, RR is the game to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 30, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  This was my second purchase for the Wii (not including Wiisports) and I was happy after playing 
 it for a few hours, this game is the prime example of what a good mini-game collection should look 
 like in combination with the Wiimode.
  
  You (Rayman, limbless weird creature) gets in contact with a race of raving rabbids, these crazy 
 raving rabbids will be you're target in many weird, offbeat minigames which are enjoyable atleast, 
 but some of them become abit repetive after a while, but there also alot of minigames that are 
 really enjoyable, just to name a few: Dance off, throwing the cow, plumbering the rabbids.
  
  Graphics:
  Good for the Wii, they have a great style for the rabbids, and without them the 
 game wouldn't even be fun, their the essential part for the game.
  
  The graphics still has that quirky style we are used from Rayman games.
  
  Gameplay:
  This 
 game takes full advantage of the Wiimode, it just works great, I never encountered a problem while 
 playing this game with the Wiimode, which is a succes since I did struggle alot with the Zelda 
 game for the Wii.
  
  Sound: ''AAAAAAAAAAAH!'' thats what Rabbids say, constantly, I'll assure you'll laugh pretty hard 
 sometimes, especially the minigame with the plumber, god, I've never laughed so hard in a videogame 
 my entire live, the game just has that funny mood and feeling going around, you'll get a smile 
 just when you put in the CD.
  
  Other then that, the sounds in the game are upbeat, especially the Dance off minigame where great 
 music can be listened to.
  
  Is it a good Mini-games collection:
  Yep, Its better then Mario Party 8, and it'll be a good timewaster if you have nothing to do and 
 want to get hooked to this game, if you have a Wii, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hvnscld77
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  i laughed before it came out, i laughed when it came out and im still laughing cause i still find 
 hurting these bunnie rabbits funny! there are loads of memorable games such as bunnies cant play 
 football, or bunnies dont like giving presents, but there are some annoying ones such as bunnies 
 are a-mazing. yes there are a few glitches, one annoying one is in bunnies have a natural rythmn 
 which just doesnt work after a while... but which game doesnt have a glitch huh???
  
  anywho it is a great game with hours of fun and gives you the opportunity to compete agaunst other 
 peoples high scores online, pretty neat! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZFAN6537
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 25, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  Over the years many party games have come and gone. Some of them have been good such as the first 
 four entries in the Mario Party series and the two Fuzion Frenzy games. Others such as the 
 latest entries in the Mario Party series and Monopoly Party werent so good. Now Ubisoft Montpellier 
 brings you a game that could revolutionize the party game genre. That game is Rayman Raving Rabbids 
 with its unique motion sensing controls and wacky sense of humor help it to be one of the biggest 
 reasons to get a Wii.
  
  There isnt a super detailed story in Rayman Raving Rabbids as the main focus is the wacky mini-games. 
 The game starts off with Rayman having a nice picnic with some of his Globox friends. Shortly into 
 their picnic strange creatures start appearing in hole around the picnic area. Before you get any 
 ideas these creatures arent part of the locust horde and the holes arent Emergance holes thats 
 a different game that isnt related to Rayman at all. So now that thats been covered back to Rayman. 
 It turns out these creatures are bunny like animals called Rabbids. They throw Rayman into a cell 
 and soon after that he is forced to participate in a bunch of random tests.
  
  The many tests that Rayman is forced to complete are the many mini-games that make up the game. 
 These games consist of a large variety of random tasks such as: Throwing a cow as far as you can, 
 Time Crisis style first-person sequences, and many other different things. Most of the mini-games 
 are fun but there are some very stupid games that arent fun and in the later stages of the game 
 the mini-games start to repeat. Rayman Raving Rabbids main game mode is the story mode which consists 
 of about fifteen stages. Each stage consists of four mini-games and a boss mini-game. To move on 
 to the next stage you have to complete three out of the four mini-games and the boss level. However 
 if you complete all four mini-games in one stage you will unlock bonuses such as songs to listen 
 to and extra outfits that Rayman can wear.
  
  Rayman Raving Rabbids also features another mode called Score Mode. In this mode you are free 
 to go back and play your favorite mini-games over and over again. Your main goal in this mode is 
 to get high scores on the mini-games so you can get points. Each mini-game has 1,000 points and 
 the goal is to try to get 1,000 points on all of the games. With the ability to go back and play 
 any mini-game youve unlocked Score Mode helps give the game plenty of replay value.
  
  Another important and fun mode in Rayman Raving Rabbids is the multiplayer mode. In this mode you 
 can play through any of the mini-games with your friends in serious competition. Sadly for most 
 of the mini-games you have to take turns in the multiplayer mode but its still very fun to play 
 the wacky games with friends. Rayman Raving Rabbids does the best it can with graphics however 
 the Wiis limited graphic capabilities bring the game down a little. However the game still looks 
 nice enough. The graphics during the cutscenes are very nice all of the characters look great and 
 the landscapes look nice too, however when youre playing the game the graphics drop down a notch. 
 They still look nice enough but there are some rough edges mainly with the characters.
  
  The sound in Rayman Raving Rabbids is absolutely nuts. The game features a bizarre soundtrack that 
 features songs such as: Misirlou, Girls Just Want to Have Fun, and some other random songs. 
 What makes the soundtrack so wacky is that none of the songs are the original version. Instead 
 they are remixes with squeaky bunny voices instead of regular singing. There are also a whole lot 
 of insanely random sound effects. Throughout the course of the game youll hear a medley of screams, 
 giggles, grunts, and who knows what else.
  
  Rayman Raving Rabbids story mode will probably take you about seven to nine hours to complete. 
 But once you have finished that mode up there is plenty of replay value thanks to the Score Mode. 
 The multiplayer mode is also very fun and gives you something to do with your friends. Price-Wise 
 Rayman Raving Rabbids is currently $50 but it is definitely worth that price.
  
  All in all Rayman Raving Rabbids is a very enjoyable game that has more then enough replay value 
 to keep you coming back for more. So if you have enough money and youre looking for a very random 
 and fun game look no further then Rayman Raving Rabbids.
  
  ~LOZFAN6537 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colborn1000
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is a departure from the classic rayman games. It is no longer a sidescroller but it is 
 a now a hugely enjoyable and hilarious minigame fest. the rabbids make this game what it is. seriously. 
 the are goddamn hilarious. think about hitting a retarded rabbit with a bear trap or a plunger. 
 thats awesome. The game doesnt really focus on rayman but on the minigames. all the minigames are 
 enjoyable except for the damn pteradactol flying one. The graphics are really slick. rayman and 
 the rabbids look really good. the sound is also enjoyable (the rabbids scream is the best) but 
 the sounds from the wii-mote speaker are low quality. the value is keep this game never sell it. 
 it is very very replayable. the wii-mote and nunchuk work really well with this game. it gives 
 you a workout for some of the games. anyhow, if you want a good laugh and a highly enjoyable and 
 healthy expierence, rent or buy this game. I dont care but just play it sometime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QueenOfGaming
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 20, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I got this game never playing any of the Rayman series before. This game was hilarious! I enjoyed 
 most of the mini games, it's just unique enjoyable sillyness the entire time. My only problems 
 with this game are that the ending was disappointing, I'm supposing because they planned a sequal, 
 which is supposed to be out later this year, plus the graphics could have been better. For anyone 
 that just wants to enjoy a hilarious game and doesn't care about the replay value this is definately 
 one to play. The Rabbids alone are reason to play this game, plus being the sequal is coming out 
 you really should have the background story 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlameMe
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 18, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  So when I bought my Wii about 2 weeks ago Rayman once one of my first purchases, which has instantly 
 made me love my Wii. Rayman is basically a collection of mini-games woven around a rather weak 
 story, but that is not to say its a bad game. The mini games are very enjoyable and rewarding to 
 play, some of them do get repetitive but not often. Its easy to become frustrated on certain levels 
 are are difficult to beat, but you have the option of avoiding them if you'd like.
  
  The graphics I feel are on par with other Wii games I have played. The humor in the game is great. 
 I rarely laugh at a game, but Rayman had me cracking up on more then one occasion. The Multiplayer 
 seemed lacking to me, this isn't the game for a group of people, for that I would suggest the Wii 
 Sports over this.
  
  All in all a great collection of mini-games, with a few unlock ables to keep you going. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarherolover
Rating: 9
Date: May 17, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Until now, you might have though bunnies were harmless cute creatures. Wait til you meet the rabbids. 
 Rayman raving rabbids is a collection of over 70 minigames, from throwing cows to shaking your 
 booty. You have 4 trials in each session, and you do 3 (the 4th will get you bonus stuff) you will 
 unlock a boss mostly though it is a plunger shoot out. Also, complations of the games are in soem 
 mode I forget. Now, the rabbids are just plain hilarious. What they scream is classic, as well 
 as high personality. And, the game has great remixes of songs like girls just want to have fun 
 and more. And, the game has an amazing use of the wii remote. You really do what you are doing. 
 Overall, rayman raving rabbids is a must buy for any wii owner. SCORE:
  9.0/10
  
  guitarherolover's choice award! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stonetowerghost
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 13, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Incredible use of the Wii Remote; Rabbids that you'll love and hate at the same time; 
 Pretty lengthy for a party game; awesome sound quality... The Bad: The visuals are never beautiful, 
 and they only look decent in minigames; some games will hurt your arm...
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Remember the old Rayman games? Adventure, hilarity, and pure innovation? Well imagine the adventure 
 being ripped away from your clutches as your landed with increased quirky and laugh-out-loud humor. 
 This is a party game at its finest; a game that I pray MP8 can live up to... Story: So bad, it's 
 good! Rayman is picnicking with the Globoxes... and the Rabbids show up! They steal the Globoxes 
 and Rayman, and they wind up in a Gladiator-like arena! Rayman must compete with the Rabbids to 
 earn toilet plungers... but little do the Rabbids (and Rayman, at the time) know that there's significance 
 behind each earned plunger... Gameplay: The star of the show! The things you'll have to do will 
 blow your mind! Things start out easy, but as time goes on, the Rabbids pick up the difficulty. 
 You'll go from launching cows, to slapping choir boys in what will seem like ten minutes, and this 
 is one of the few games that may never frustrate you; despite the fact that you may be stuck on 
 a certain minigame for ages. I was amazed at the imagination and pure, unrestained insanity put 
 into this game. I was honestly wondering while I was hammering the Rabbid's head, ripping worms 
 out of their teeth, and doing some disco; what the developers were smoking. It's genius! Almost 
 every minigame is an absolute blast to play! You'll swing, draw, shoot, reload, run, dance, race, 
 pull, smack, spin, tilt, and much, much more with the hunk of plastic. I cannot urge Wii owners 
 enough to buy this game. Graphics: The problematic, moldy slice of the masterpiece cake. The actual 
 minigames are decent (With a few ugly exceptions) , but every feature in the arena is plain nasty. 
 If Baten Kaitos could nearly match a 360 game, why can't the Wii do something for the usually beautiful 
 Rayman? The visuals can be muddy, painfully dark, and sometimes (Rarely) even hamper your gameplay 
 performance. This is next generation, but why don't developers put some effort into maxing out 
 the Wii's capabilities? Sound: It's nearly perfect! From the strangly catchy disco sounds, to the 
 Rabbid's cries, to the 'Beethoven's 9th Symphony' running gag. It's quirky, and almost never annoying. 
 Value: While it lasts, this game will never falter. You'll be wondering what Ubisoft has in stored 
 for you next... Tilt: As a fan of the falling Mario Party franchise; I can't say I'm complaining. 
 Mario Party needs to mimic the success of this gem for Nintendo's Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link24294
Rating: 9
Date: May 13, 2007 2:05 am PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids is a very enjoyable game that will keep you entertained for hours. The well 
 thought out minigames mixed with the genius of the Wii remote, make it be more fun than the other 
 console games. The Graphics arn't actually that bad there pretty good when you think about it compared 
 to other games. The sound is good especially the Rabbits screams and stuff. The gameplay is inventive 
 one of the major downsides of the game is the amount of repetitive minigames all the time. Another 
 downside is apparently if you brought it in the UK there's a minigame where you have to hit radios, 
 then hit the rabbit of the same colour as the radio, also avoiding the big rabbit, well the Wii 
 remote doesn't work properly even if you swing it around like mad (this annoyed me so much) , so 
 without completing that you can't complete the game, and unlock the golden cow trophy. Overall 
 a very good game with a bit replay value. =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LionR
Rating: 4.4
Date: May 9, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  When I learned that Rayman Raving Rabbids it was going to be a collection of minigames instead 
 of a platformer I was intrested, since my experiences with platformers in 3D arent that good. A 
 good collection of fun minigames would sit nicely with the Wii's controller, I thought.
  
  I dont know if Im simply not the person who likes minigames, but I do know that I really dont like 
 RRR. The games might look like fun on screenshots but the gameplay is generally so derivative that 
 I wondered if I was playing a game at all. For example, the dance game consists solely of flicking 
 the mote and nunchuck at the right time, i. e. when a rabbit enters a certain location. The flicking 
 cant be blamed for adding any feel or fun to the experience, so basically
  you are playing a game solely by pressing one of two buttons at the right time.
  I dont know 
 about other people but personally I would never imagine spending 200$ on a console for the experience 
 of flicking two pieces of plastic at the right time. Though this may not be the most advanced game 
 in the collection, the rest of the games are on about the same level.
  
  To me this is an attempt by Ubisoft to cash in by releasing an extremely simple game and trying 
 to pass it on as funny . Shame on Gamespot and every other site who didnt see through this hoax. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluffers623
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 8, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  this game is just like smooth moves, except its single player has a longer campaign, and some of 
 the challenges are quite tough. this game is great for multiplayer, but great by yourself. there 
 is a lot of humor in this as the bunnies beat up each other, and how u get to shoot em with plungers. 
 this game is probably in the top 8 of wii games. the graphics are ok as is it just a party game 
 (they really never have good graphics) . the dancing is fun as u flick the nunchuck to do some moves. 
 this game is great to buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedfreak8
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 8, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  The best game ever created by the rayman team :)
  
  Cute, funny bunnys and all :P
  
  crazy game, crazy fun.
  
  The bunnys are taking over the world! and rayman is here to the rescue!
 
  all he has to do if compete in random mini games and all :P
  
  a very good family game :P
  
  thats all i guess, i dont know what else to say really.
  
 
  100 words, 100 words &gt;: ( how annoing, iv said enough.
  
  The best game ever created by the rayman team :)
  
  Cute, funny bunnys and all :P
  
  crazy 
 game, crazy fun.
  
  The bunnys are taking over the world! and rayman is here to the rescue!
  all he has to do if 
 compete in random mini games and all :P
  
  a very good family game :P
  
  thats all i guess, i dont know what else to say really.
  
  100 words, 100 words &gt;: ( how 
 annoing, iv said enough.
  
  The best game ever created by the rayman team :)
  
  Cute, funny bunnys and all :P
  
  crazy game, crazy fun.
  
  The bunnys are taking over the 
 world! and rayman is here to the rescue!
  all he has to do if compete in random mini games and all :P
  
  a very good family game :P
 
  
  thats all i guess, i dont know what else to say really.
  
  100 words, 100 words &gt;: ( how annoing, iv said enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninguy
Rating: 5.6
Date: May 6, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  The problem I have with the game is not the game itself, but with a lot of the mini games. Some 
 work very well with the Wii controls and are probably best played using them than on any other 
 console. The most notable one that comes to mind is a mini game where you have to draw food to 
 feed a rabbid. Another one is where you have to pull worms out of a rabbid's teeth and that too 
 works very well with the Wii controls.
  
  But most of them are just frustrating using the Wii remote. For example, there is a maze mini game 
 where you have to tilt the board to guide the ball the end. In theory, it sounds great with the 
 Wii remote, but it just doesn't work like you want it to and it takes a lot of getting used to 
 just to complete that one game. The dancing mini game, played out like DDR, is too sensitive and 
 you will constantly hit the wrong side at the wrong time unintentionally.
  
  Some of the games require you to be a body builder, as in about a fifth of the games revolve around 
 moving the nuchuck and remote at an extreme rate. And you have to hold them close together, so 
 your nunchuck and remote will clash often, possibly breaking them. Overall, while fun at times, 
 it's just a frustrating experience that really isn't worth the $50 price tag. If it comes down, 
 I'd recommend it. But for now, leave it be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccab567
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 26, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  This game overall is good game. The mini games are awesome i could spend hours playing those mini 
 games. they use the wii remotes motion sensor capability to its full potential. The game is so 
 funny some things that i saw i was like lmao. Great graphics overall. This game is super addicting 
 once i started i couldn't stop, for about 6 hours i played story mode then i went to the mini games 
 and thats what made it even more fun. Great story line it tottally goes off the other games story 
 lines but they back it up. I'm hoping there is a sequel to this game because i know it would probably 
 be just as good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingmickey2
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 22, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  If there was a game that just had to be really silly and sort of addictive, that just had to be 
 on the Wii first, its Rayman Raving Rabbids. This is a great game (or some may say good ) , but 
 may only appeal to the younger kids. But you still may like it if you are a unexperienced gamer.
 
  
  In the first part, you will see a very long intro. But dont let it fool you that the actual game 
 is going to be long. After the intro, you will be dumped off at a huge arena, with several exits. 
 In those exits, you will find a mini-game. These take about 2-5 times to complete. Next, after 
 5 little game things, there will be a main, longer one. Most of these invole shooting the bunnies. 
 Complete that, and you'll be sent to your cell. You repeat this for about 10-13 times until the 
 game is over. Wham, and you're already done. The bunnies sound very funny, but otherwise the music 
 is bland. You may see little pixels of computer stuff, but otherwise the graphics are great. But 
 When you look at the price: $50! It isn't worth that. To sum it all up, it is a fun game, although 
 a little short. You may rent it first, but if u have that extra $50 then go crazy and buy it. Think 
 about who you are before you but this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warrior212
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 16, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, the dancing parts are absolutely great with good music, the other minigames 
 are cool too (but I hate the shooting ones, though it really shows what the Wii can do with shooters) . 
 There's something missing in this game, something like mario party had with points and everything. 
 THe multiplayer is all about oh let's play that game and that one and well, there's no real goal. 
 Getting all your 183 000 points is useless, doesn't unlock anything interesting. In general not 
 a bad game, but not something you'll be playing for months
  
  Next time, please Ubi, bring us a platform like the old great games, not this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carterhc
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 12, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  This is a party game that will make everyone have a good time, mini games for everyones taste. 
 but thats when the fun ends, when your friends leave
  
  Gameplay 7/10
  for a party game this game is pretty fun to play with. the mini games do get repetitive though, 
 but while you play the fun factor is there. the story mode is interesting as your put into a situation 
 you have to get rayman out of.
  
  Graphics 7/10
  if this is a next gen game, i couldnt really tell. the graphics in most of the wii games arent 
 in the same league as the other systems but this game still has some nice touches here and there 
 with the detail in the rabbids and rayman.
  
  controls 7/10
  using the wii remote for this game really makes the mini games and the experience better than expected. 
 the controls are easy to understand that anyone can pick the game up right away.
  
  best feature
  you actually do what the rayman is doing, controls fit the game
  
  worst feature
 
  this is a party game, not too much fun when your by yourself.
  mini games get repetitive and most of the games will never be played again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LavisFiend
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 10, 2007 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Well, I did say I would write a review eventually for each wii title I got ahold of, but honestly, 
 I don't have the time or the patience to do so, so you'll just have to wait. (the only real reason 
 I am starting to write one now is because my ds is charging and nothing is on tv =p) anyways, here 
 we go;
  
  I don't know if we came to any sort of agreement of FORM for the clan's reviews, so I am just going 
 to fashion it like one of my gamefaq reviews.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Let me be the first to say that the graphics Rabbids puts out are great, however, they don't do 
 all too well of showing the full power of the wii. The rabbids all look great, and rayman, well, 
 looks like rayman, but the level textures are somewhat last gen, and offer nothing to the eye more 
 than last gen did.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  This game is hilarious. The bunnies emit a scream that's so bizarre that it's hard not to grin 
 from, and everytime they open their mouth to say something, their voices are too crazy, and never 
 get old. Music is zany to say the least, but you'll only really hear music in the dancing minigames, 
 as the other tunes are forgetable in the others (think elevator music)
  
  Controls: 8/10
  The controls do a superb job of utilizing the wii mote, as each minigame has you performing a specification 
 action of the wii-mote in which you literally, perform the action. So why the 8? well, some of 
 the minigames really test your endurance, and for some people (mainly the younger audience) might 
 take too much out of them, or find it too hard to keep up with sometimes. However, the game offers 
 a sort of low acceptance score, so you don't have to blaze through like a pro, and can take a few 
 mistakes and still do good.
  
  Story: 5/10
  The game is just a bunch of minigames, so it reeeeeeeeeally didn't need a story, however, the only 
 real purpose of the story is to help tie all the minigames together, and ultimately, it works, 
 but it's really bare and unispired, because, like I said, it only serves as to connect all the 
 minigames together, thats it. Basically, Rayman is at a picnic with a bunch of frogs (globox or 
 something like that) and the rabbids kidnap Rayman and use him for entertainment in their coliseum. 
 Rayman has to escape and blady blah blah, its as generic as you can get, but it works fine for 
 a minigame collection game.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Where the game shines obviously. As said before, collection of minigames, meaning, different scenarios 
 for each. Each minigame is broken up and categorized into categories; precision, skill, workout, 
 get going!, Shake your booty!, and bunny hunt. I will briefly describe each category;
  
  Precision; Most minigames in this category will have you usually guiding something or drawing something 
 or performing a task with accurancy.
  
  Skill; These minigames will have you doing hard tasks while usually guiding something, or battling 
 with a timelimit.
  
  Workout; These minigames couldn't deserve a better name. The category is called workout, so prepare 
 to get tired after a few of these minigames.
  
  Get Going!; These minigames are racing oriented.
  
  Shake Your Booty!; Obviously, Dancing Oriented.
 
  
  Bunny Hunt; All minigames take place via rail-shooter fashion.
  
  The game is comprised of 70+ minigames, each one being split apart and placed in aformentioned 
 category. The main drawback however, is that a good quarter of these minigames are repeats and 
 one hit wonders, (meaning, there just way too boring and unfun to play a second time) but the other 
 3/4's of the game is still a blast too play.
  
  Replay Value: 7/10
  The game offers plenty of stuff to do after you finish the game. It has 12 bonuses (each accesed 
 by points via point mode) and will take a great long time to completly unlock everything (I say 
 this out of confidence, for I only unlocked 4) and it comes equipped with a challenge mode, so 
 it offers plenty to replay. Also, multiplayer is great as well, and adds to this factor.
  
  Rent or Buy: Well, seeing as how its a collection of minigames, it strongly depends on your views 
 of minigames. I for one, say buy, simply because theres just not alot of games out for the wii 
 right now, and this game has plenty of fun to it to hold you over till other bigger titles arrive, 
 but honestly, I think you should rent it first, buy later.
  
  POINT CRUNCHDOWN
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Controls: 8/10
  Story: 5/10
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Replay Value: 
 7/10
  
  Total; 45/60=0.75 (ROUNDUP) = 8
  
  Final Result! RRR scores an 8! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 9, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  It is a good game it is just weird and bizzare it does work perfectly for the nintendo wii but, 
 personally if you are a mature gamer and do not like 4th grade humor like farting and poop jokes 
 then do not bother with this game... It is mainly a game for little kids that being said that older 
 gamers might enjoy it but it grows tedious... I played this at my cousins house and it is ok I 
 can see why they liked it with a wi mote and the stuff you do with it but personally look in a 
 mirror while playing that game and you will feel like a retard playing it... That being said if 
 you like the wi mote and want a bunch of mini games buy this game but if you want something better 
 go get wi sports or zelda for the wii its better and more fun.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkMaster7991
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 8, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Well to start this review I will point out the Defult's in this game. The 1st default is it can 
 be fustrating. The mini-game where the bunnies are using the bathroom and you have to close it, 
 the one where you have to give them carrot juice also (My had got blister, I had to wear a glove, 
 and my elbow got hurt on that mini-game) , and the one where your in a UFO and you have to get all 
 the Super Man bunnies. The 2nd default is how the game is pretty short. I mean it's not a very 
 short game but it's pretty short. The 3rd one was how when they first annouced this game and showed 
 a trailer one part showed Rayman on like space ships, and Rayman fighting a whole army of bunnies 
 surrounding him (there was like 100,000 or more of them on the screen!) . I wanted to play thoese 
 2 parts badly but it wasn't included... but out of thoese defualts the only really bad one is the 
 FUSTRATING mini-games (I mean really FUSTRATING) . Now there are alot of good things in this game. 
 Besides the FUSTRATING mini-games I mentioned and a few others the rest are really fun especially 
 the first person shooter and dancing ones. Me and my few friends had a blast playing them. Then 
 there was the wardrobe. You can amke Rayman however yo uwant him to look. You can make him gansta, 
 granny, disco, one of the crazy bunnies!, a soccer player, dee-jay, goth, and more. Plus you and 
 mix and match them making it more fun. Then the msic and how you have a room or cell and as you 
 go through the game the cell changes and you have a music box. I can go on and on but point blank 
 this was a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBatFreak777
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 7, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  This is just a great game and totally crazy too. I'd say it's biggest weakness is it's storyline 
 as, really, there just isn't much of one. Things do evolve as you progress through story mode things 
 but it's just no big deal. Though the mini-games aren't as Wii-remote original as WarioWare it's 
 still an incredibly fun game. I really enjoyed some of the creative graphic elements of the game 
 a good bit. I like too that there is some incentive to keep playing after you complete story mode 
 to unlock the various bonus materials. Great all around game! Some of the mini-games are a little 
 annoying but you can typically get through these after a little time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamez_Hunter99
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2007 2:55 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  The Gameplay in Rayman Raving Rabbids is great for the wii, the game has lots of motions from just 
 pointing at the TV to Pumping the wii-mote and Nunchuk up and down as fast as possible.
  
  Graphics
  Not much to say about the Graphics, Its what you expect from a wii game.
  
  Sound
 
  The Sound for this game is great, Ever bit of sound sounds like it would in if you was actually 
 there.
  The game also uses the speaker in the wii-mote for one of its games what is a nice feature.
  
 
  Value
  The game has a Value and will bring you back too the game even if you have finished it.
  
  
 Tilt
  This is a great game that every wii owner should have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kroxfire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2007 5:52 am PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids is probly more randomer than Conker with it's crazy mini games and the fact 
 that you escape from a rabbit jail by using plungers is a completly insane concept. But thx to 
 the Wiis motion sensing technolge and some good ideas have made this game excellent indeed from 
 ripping worms from a rabbids theeth to racing ugly worthog things its a game that has it all. The 
 graphics are resnable with varieded animations. The soundtracks especcially when you dance to them 
 are resnablly catchy. The only bad bit about the game is the story is short and after a while playing 
 the same mini games over and over again gets tiresome still Rayman Raving Rabbids is a wirthwhile 
 inclusion i any gamers collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phel
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 30, 2007 12:24 am PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids is a dissapointing game. There's no story at all. And 3 second cutscenes 
 do it no help. But the minigames are fun, mostly. I bought the game for party purposes. However, 
 it's multipayer isn't as good as I thought it would be. You can't play at the same time, except 
 when you play the FPS minigame, and it the minigames can be incredibly frustrating. The game is 
 a great rental and an ok buy. It really depends on what you're looking for. I would recommend it 
 for a buy, if you have friends. But only if you already have Super Monkey Ball, which is a better 
 party game then Rayman Raving Rabbids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mesayni
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 25, 2007 1:51 am PT
Review:  I basically agree with Gamespot's review. To summarize, the gameplay is enhanced greatly by Wii's 
 controls, the graphics aren't great, the characters are hilarious, the games are pretty fun, etc. 
 But what bums me out a bit is that this isn't the type of game that I'm still playing now. I'll 
 still plug it in once in a while to shoot rabbits (that never gets old) but it's pretty unreasonable 
 to expect that I'll get all the way through the expansive score mode to unlock all the bonus stuff. 
 And come to think of it, I don't think I want all the bonus stuff anyway. This would be almost 
 completely forgiven if the multiplayer could actually hold its own. Unfortunately, very few of 
 the games are simultaneous play, and there's no overarching board a la Mario Party to turn it into 
 a great party game. It's better to just play for a little bit, laugh at, and move onto something 
 with more substance. So it seems like I'm bashing the game, but I really love this game. Its style 
 is different, funny, and fresh, and I dig that. Furthermore, the games often feel like something 
 that could be turned into a game by themselves, and this is fun. All in all, it was a fun game 
 while it lasted, but I'm starting to think its time is pretty much up, which is a little sad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shmappblarg
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 23, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  Rayman: Raving Rabbids (From now on referred to as RRR) is a very strange game right from the start. 
 The story is just weird, Rayman is having a picnic with his frog-like friends called globox's. 
 Suddenly rayman and his friends are all kidnapped by a pack of insane looking rabbids (rabbits basically) 
 and forced to compete in an arena for his friends' and his own freedom. So everyday you are thrown 
 out in an arena and given 4 games to choose, upon completing 3 of the 4, a larger game in which 
 you save a globox or just advance in the story is opened up. This is where the main part of RRR 
 shows up, minigames, minigames, minigames. Some of these games seen average and normal like warthog 
 racing or shearing sheep like a shot put. Then there's the really weird games, keeping bunnies 
 inside of restroom stalls for god-knows-what reason or chucking a cow like a shot put. Basically, 
 this game is for people that just want some fun, an excellent rental because of the lack of depth, 
 but if you want to unlock all the outfits, get all the bonus songs and complete every minigame 
 to it's fullest, probably should buy and spend about 30 hours on it at most if you want to throw 
 in the time you play with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mario_bros_
Rating: 1.2
Date: Mar 22, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is really bad, you don't even knw how Ramon got there, or why he's there. What is the 
 little things Ramon is trying to save?? I can't tell... the graphics are horrible, i didn't even 
 know those things were rabbits until somebody told me. Also the sound.... i cant even describe 
 it, the closest i can get to describing what the rabbits sound like is well, dying drunk sea monkeys 
 trying to sing, yes it's that bad. The game is over all Nintendo's biggest mistake. I have no choice 
 (this is coming from a true Nintendo fan) but to rate this game 1.2!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ipodman3x
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 21, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Although this game is VERY addicting, I must say this isn't very impressive. Its almost like a 
 mario party with evil rabits, or a wario game. I no alot of you will dissagree, but the mini game 
 style involed with this game is more of the same. I am new to rayman games, so im not sure if they 
 have others. Although it is more of the same o me. It has many good features. The plot gives you 
 a good laugh. The mini-games i must say are very fun. SOme give you hard time, but they are fun 
 overall. I WOULD sugest this to players. But if your looking for something new, id try others before 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jim1029
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Controls work well, good graphics for a Wii game, easy for anybody to get into.
  The Bad: Your arms can get tired.
  
  Ultimately, this game is very good. One immediate plus 
 is that you can pick up from anywhere in the game, anytime, and stop anytime. There's not much 
 of a real story in this game, so you can do it however you want, in any order.
  
  Obviously, this game is extremely unique, so you never really know what to expect, though some 
 minigames, like the dancing ones, are similar. But, one minute you can be throwing a cow as far 
 as you can, and the next minute you can be shooting the rabbids with plungers. That type of variety 
 really makes the game fun.
  
  However, like all games, it isn't perfect. One annoying thing is that your arm will get tired in 
 a few of the games, like when you shoot carrot juice into the rabbid's masks, and you have to move 
 your left hand up and down really fast. Also, sometimes the controls are a little confusing.
  
  But overall, this game is still excellent. Reccommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tai_chi_rabbit
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 19, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  It is a fun collection, but with wario ware coming out very soon, you may want to wait.
  
  Gameplay- Creative mini games and very funny uses of the Wii Remote and Nunchuck are a relief with 
 how terrible this game could have been. They fact that the game devolved from an adventure to minigames 
 alone is what kept this from being a 10.
  
  Graphics- Considering that this is a Wii game, I was very impressed with how it looked over all. 
 Possibly the best looking Wii game out now.
  
  Sound- Screaming Rabbids, catchy tunes, appropriate sound effects, the game has it all nailed perfectly. 
 Listening to the sound alone may be just as enjoyable as the rest of the game.
  
  Value- Good game, fun mini games, very funny. This game is overall a good experiance. The major 
 problem? Some of the games use the exact same concept (moving the controller like your running... 
 again... and again) over and over, but for some games (the beat-keeping dancing one particularly) 
 it just never gets old. So despite some meh games, this is an instant classic. I highly reccomend 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seasponge2004
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 18, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids for the Nintendo Wii has Rayman and his friends being kidnapped by the evil 
 Rabbids. He is then taken and set in a coliseum to take part as a gladiator in a series of challenges. 
 As you play the challenges, the Rabbids will begin to take a liking to old Rayman. At the beginning 
 they will hate your guts, then they only hate your flesh, then they are indifferent, then mildly 
 enthusiastic, and finally to absolutely nuts about you. And that is about it for the story. But 
 hell, you're not here for a story, you're here for the gameplay and you won't be disappointed.
 
  
  The controls in Rayman Raving Rabbids are fantastic. Almost every minigame's controls feel right 
 and work very well. The controls make it so that almost anyone can pick up and play a minigame. 
 As for the minigames in Rayman Raving Rabbids, they will have you doing the usual (Rhythm games) , 
 the extreme (Sky diving) , the weird (Throwing a cow as far as you can) to the WTF! (Using a Rabbid 
 like a soccer ball) . All these games are extremely fun, except for a few exceptions. Also, while 
 the game does have a large amount of minigames, many of these are just the same game just harder, 
 with different music or a different level. There are actually on 40 original games or so of the 
 75 it says.
  
  Then there are the Rabbids. Their screams of pain and anger are the highlight of the game. Watching 
 Rabbids being hit in the head with a plunger as they scream is just the start. Causing them pain 
 is wickedly fun and a bit of a guilty pleasure. While playing this, I told my friends of all the 
 pain I had caused these little monsters. My stories where met wht appal and disgust about how I 
 could hurt a rabbit, virtual or otherwise. I knew I could sway them to my side if they played the 
 game and, after kicking a Rabbid into a soccer goal once or twice, I was victorious.
  
  Finally, the place where this game should shine is the multiplayer. But it unfortunately doesn't. 
 The minigames are not a 4-at-once but rather a hot seat set up where one person goes after the 
 other. This is unfortunate because RRR would have made a much better game had it had a better multiplayer. 
 RRR is a great game that is a must have for all WIi owners because of its fantastic use of the 
 Wii-mote, sick sense of humor and entertaining minigames. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizaro1
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 16, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  When you first start a new game you see a cinematic where Rayman and his friends are having a picnic... 
 and then the one by one they are kidnapped by the evil rabbits, and you're put in a gladitorial 
 task to do hilarious tasks. And that's the plot. There's no Where's the princess? rubbish just 
 rabbits kidnapping you and your friends... To be honest, the plot is thinner than Victoria Beckham 
 and about as original as her too. As soon as the cinematic is over you find yourself in a gladitorial 
 arena, with a 4 rooms and 1 big room. The first thing I noticed is that the crowd are incredibly 
 jerky, and look no better than a 11 years olds drawing. Though, after noticing this you'll walk 
 through one of the doors using either the D-Pad or the Nunchuk.
  
  Now on the body of the game, the minigames. When you go through a door, if has a small instruction 
 box and a rabbit showing you how to do the minigame. Whilst most mini-games are simple, some are 
 incredibly hard to do and very frustrating. Fortunately, the first few ones are easy. Too easy.
 
  
  Now that's the problem about Rayman: Raving Rabbids; it's too easy, unlimited lives and you don't 
 even have to finish the entire worths of challenges to get to the next day. Also the game is too 
 short, being only 6 hours long leaves hard-core gamers craving for more.
  
  Bad things aside, Rayman Raving Rabbids is a great party game and for your children. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Forlorn79
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 16, 2007 12:21 am PT
Review:  This game is funny, and a bit disturbing, but that only lasts so long. The single player experience 
 is good and fairly long, but a bit too easy, repetitive, and shallow. Once you unlock all the games 
 by beating the single player, you can play them in multi-player. It is fun up to that point, but 
 the multi-player and score attack modes after the game is beaten aren't worth the effort. Unlock-ables 
 aren't worth the time, either.
  
  The first time you figure out a game, it is enjoyable. Some will really get your arms tired, especially 
 the carrot juice squirting game. Some games are so weird or hard to play that you'll never want 
 to play them again after you beat them, and others are so easy that it's also not worth a replay, 
 but a few are just right. The best games are the first person rail plunger-shooters, but they are 
 just too easy and limited in variety.
  
  Part of the problem is that there's not many games with simultaneous multi-player, as most are 
 based on single-player action. Regardless, if you've played before, you'll be able to beat any 
 newbies who will probably fail right away or get lucky. The multi-player isn't very well structured, 
 just a few different screens you have to navigate through to find the game you want. The maps they 
 use aren't really intuitive.
  
  Graphically, the cartoon, humorous style and smooth visuals are the best thing about the game, 
 but for the 2D jerky crowd in the arena. The songs are cool, the screaming rabbids are funny at 
 first, but overall the sound is a bit lacking in variety. The control is good compared to most 
 launch titles, but most mini-games are hard to work, and games too shallow. Once you've beaten 
 the multi-player and fooled around a bit with friends, you'll be ready to trade it in.
  
  Overall, this is a good game, but might not be worth the full price, or the extra remote and nunchuck. 
 Taking turns with one control and nunchuck works just as well for most games. It works, in short 
 bursts, but Raving Rabbids leaves you wanting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 15, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Although Rayman is known for his 3D platform adventures, this time Ubisoft has placed the limbless 
 character into a series of mini-games so crazy that you will blink in disbelief at some of the 
 ideas, shortly before bursting into laughter.
  
  The story begins as Rayman and his froggy friends are having a picnic. Crazed rabbits interrupt 
 the idyllic scene, abducting all the froggies and then Rayman shortly after.
  
  These shrieking demented bunnies toss Rayman in a dungeon, allowing him to come out only to an 
 arena to perform certain tasks for their amusement. It's a bit like being a Gladiator, but doing 
 things that many times make no sense and usually involve plungers, all for the Rabbids amusement. 
 It's also the way the game uses to introduce the mini-games into the single-player mode.
  
  Each time Rayman visits the arena, there are four games available. You don't really know what they 
 are until you walk though the respective archway to begin one. Out of the four trials, you only 
 need to complete three of them to open the main gate and the last task, which gives you as a prize 
 a plunger. Collect three of them and you'll figure out why Rayman needs them: in his cell, there 
 is a small window way up high (and a bird that insists on pooping on his face if he dares looking 
 up) . To reach the window you will need a series of plungers to create a pseudo-ladder.
  
  The order in which you complete the trials doesn't really matter, as long as you beat three. Beat 
 all four trials and you get a special unlockable bonus (songs for the jukebox, for example) .
  
  So what kind of mini-games do the Rabbids like to play?
  
  I'll start with my favorite 
 so far, Cow Toss. Cow Toss makes you swing the remote around over your head (like a lasso) to pick 
 up speed. To throw the cow, you release the A button and away it goes! The goal is usually to beat 
 a certain distance. The fun part is actually watching and listening to the cow as it goes. Once 
 I managed to control my laughing, I got pretty good at it.
  
  Another of my favorites is the rhythm game where you shake both the remote and nunchuk depending 
 on which platform the Rabbids step on during the dance. They come from both sides of the screen. 
 If one steps on the left platform, you shake the nunchuk; if one steps on the right platform, you 
 shake the remote. It's a lot of fun, but I found that the nunchuk doesn't register the movements 
 as well as the remote. The songs range from disco to rap, and you even get to hear a Rabbids-remix 
 of Girls Just Wanna Have Fun.
  
  A game called Bunnies Like to Stuff Themselves has you drawing the shape of whatever food the bunny 
 is about to eat by using the remote and pressing the A button to draw lines. There's a time limit 
 to achieve a certain score.
  
  There is one game that is as tough as it is funny, yet somewhat disturbing. Bunnies are relieving 
 themselves in toilet stalls (complete with sounds of straining) and the doors randomly open. The 
 purpose is to slap the doors shut and keep the bunnies inside for nearly one minute. You aim with 
 the remote and shake the nunchuk to smack the doors. Take too long closing the stalls and you get 
 screaming Rabbids and a plunger or three on the face.
  
  In Bunnies are Addicted to Carrot Juice you are placed behind a bar on the beach. Snorkeling Rabbids 
 will emerge from the water and walk towards you. You have to fill their masks with orange juice 
 and survive for a set amount of time. You aim with the remote and constantly shake the nunchuk 
 to keep pumping the juice.
  
  Another funny game, much like cow tossing, is Bunnies Can't Fly . Here, you move the nunchuk and 
 remote alternatively to make a wagon go faster and faster and launch the Superbunny as far as you 
 can. You can give them an extra distance boost by exploding the dynamite charges on him.
  
  The plunger-shooting levels are great. Think House of the Dead, where your character moves in a 
 pre-set path, stopping and looking at certain key points where the action occurs. You get a six-plunger 
 gun (there's those plungers again!) , aim with the remote, shoot with A, and reload by shaking the 
 nunchuk. It's a ton of fun, especially when you throw a chain out to grab an adventurous bunny 
 that decided to get too close: you get to use it as ammo. In the shooting levels, you get to save 
 an imprisoned froggy at the end.
  
  Other funny and insane activities include pulling worms out of a rabbit's teeth, running with a 
 bomb (you quickly move the nunchuk and remote up and down alternatively) , milking cows, warthog 
 racing, smacking choir rabbits, gather pigs into a pen while flying, a brain maze and a few others.
 
  
  As you complete trials, they will become available in the multiplayer mode. Unfortunately, most 
 of them force you to take turns with your friends, and only a few of them actually allow for more 
 than one player simultaneously.
  
  The character design and animations are very well done, except on those occasions at the beginning 
 of each day when Rayman enters the arena and you see the crowd of bunnies cheering. They look so 
 jagged and choppy that it's hard to believe it belongs to the same game.
  
  Soundwise, I can't praise it enough. All the sound effects are what make the game, and not just 
 with the toilet stalls or flying cows. But in the rhythm games, the screaming and cheering of the 
 bunnies got in the way of hearing the music properly.
  
  The fact that there is only an autosave feature every time you go to your cell really disappointed 
 me. You can't save anywhere in the arena, and there are no checkpoints either, so if you get frustrated 
 with a game (because some are strangely easy and others painfully hard) and decide to turn the 
 console off, your progress is lost. You must go through the trials and get a plunger to end the 
 day and return to the cell.
  
  Other than these downfalls, Rayman Raving Rabbids offers tons of creative ways to use the remote 
 and nunchuk, and greatly shows how versatile the Wii can be in terms of motion sensor controls. 
 It's quirky, hilarious and makes us look like dorks while playing it, which is even more fun! Review 
 text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screenshots at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=raymanravingrabbids 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oshaun123
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 13, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids is one of the more recent wii titles and probably one of the funniest titles 
 for the little console. Essentially just meant for a party game this title does offer a pretty 
 solid single player as well. But this title is better suited for multiplayer action. In a sense 
 this game will rob your attention with all of the comedy but it is a good thing kind of. Graphics 
 are a little above what they would be on the gamecube. Sound is great. It will take some time to 
 get the hang of getting the timing of some of these games but it is all worth while in the end. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 12, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids for the Wii is a huge departure from the normal platforming Rayman is known 
 for. It is instead a collection of minigames with some of the most memorable characters for a game 
 I've seen in a while: The Rabbids.
  
  The single player game isn't much to brag about, really, all you do is unlock the games for use 
 in the multiplayer mode. Other than that, after each round fo minigames Rayman is awarded a plunger 
 by the Rabbids. Rayman eventually uses the plungers as his escape route.
  
  The minigames themselves differ in situations, but not so much in controls. There are several games 
 that have you moving the Wiimote and nunchuk in rapid succession as though running, for example. 
 Chances are after you've unlocked the games, it won't hold your attention for more than short bursts 
 of play afterwards.
  
  Graphically, Rayman Raving Rabbids is nothing spectacular. It does everything right, but nothing 
 that makes you go Oooo, that's pretty! 
  
  Now, the sound however, is excellent. Whoever was in charge of audio knew what he was doing and 
 how to make the Rabbids seem like a wild and crazy mob and still show individuality. Cartoon-y 
 sounds also add to the playful nature of the minigames.
  
  Rayman Raving Rabbids has it's moments, but once you pass by those moments chances are you won't 
 play it as much. This will however, entertain young ones to death. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeldaMAN95
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 12, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is a awesome great game with hundreds of mini game to complete. You first start out in 
 a meadow and bunnies come and trap you in a cell you have nothing the toilet is all crappy and 
 the bed sucks then they take you away and you end up in a football stadium typ dome you have to 
 hurtle through 3 mini games to open up the big door where get to do the plunger shooting mini game 
 there are some mini games where you have like run while pumping your are with the wiimote and nunchuck 
 and there are ones where you have to direct a blindfolded bunnie into a cactus or a rake and things 
 like that. Every time you comlete the big door mini game and the others you get a plunger and plungers 
 for the bunnies are like gold to us once you collete enough you gane respect and your room starts 
 to get decorated with a nice bed and a royal tiolet! But the downers are pretty down 1. The game 
 is super short and if you stick to the game you can beat it in a day! 2. When you get a little 
 over half way you start to encounter the same mini games that you have already played and there 
 just the extended part 2 or 3. So over all this is a great game and you will have a blast playing 
 it but I don't think it is worth $50 so if I where you I would just rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirius_metlhed
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 7, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Total huge surprise with this one - I've never played a Rayman game and haven't had the urge to 
 play one until I got my hands on Rayman Raving RAbbids for the Wii. The Rabbids are these crazy 
 freakish Wallace and Gromit rejects hellbent on keeping Rayman captive, forcing him to perform 
 a series of tasks: dole out the carrot juice, milk the cows, blast bunnies off a podium to the 
 beat of some tunes, FPS (first plunger shooter) some rabbids, and other very fun, very addictive, 
 sick humor inspired labors. It takes no experience or previous skill using the Wii controllers 
 to play. I had my sister in law and her husband over last weekend and they cut their Wii teeth 
 pulling worms out of the rabbids' teeth - it was an instant hit. Who won't like it: really serious 
 gamers who relish intense, story-driven titles and uptight parents who can't handle some toilet 
 jokes or other bizarre humor.
  
  Who will like it: most of the Wii's target audience - regular folks who enjoy games that require 
 little thought, or people coming back to gaming after a hiatus, and people who are looking for 
 a centerpiece for their next social gathering. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenDreams13
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 7, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Ah mini games. When done right they can be really great. This one was done just right. A good mixture 
 of games and difficulty to keep you playing. The game a is ton of fun with a group of friends.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics aren't too special. Standard last gen graphics. So I don't have too much 
 to write about the graphics other than the characters are funny and look pretty cool.
  
  Sound: Nothing to write home about. Standard sound for this type of game. The speaker on the Wiimote 
 is used in most of the games and is required for some.
  
  Value: Once you beat the main game and unlock all of the mini games, the really great part of this 
 game shines. The multi player. The four player multi player is the best part of this game and it 
 is really addictive. The game has some unlockables such as new songs, new games, and new outfits 
 for Rayman. Some of which look really cool.
  
  Overall I would say that this is a fun, easy, addictive mini game game. The developers knew how 
 to put together some good mini games to keep players playing. The best part of the game is the 
 multi player by far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyanOpuffs
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 7, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving rabbids is a great game to play if you have friends over. Very fun and creative its 
 definatly a game worth buying! But the problem is theres only 15 stages until you escape with the 
 plungers, but other than that a great game. My favorite is the rabbit disco!
  I have nothing else to say.
  
  njsdjfndsk jjdksnfkjsdnfks jdnfjknsjnj djhfj jjfn hdjsh jdfhjs 
 lkfkfls jfkjeirujufdhgjkd jfjdsjn gjjid gjdidkkvc nlfoogj dkkalldnvnk dpsfkoeuin khnjkjdskhfjkjkls 
 ksal; jenfjekgj jjsjjjjskkk kjujffhejdjfh jhnfjhhjd jfhknn kjsjkn jkh j snfjsfkfhjsjfnnnfdjfnvdjns 
 jsfnskdjndd jfksfjfnn fdklfhjskfhkdf djfjkdsfkjsnj jsjkjdlj wsjdsjd kdjsadk jsjdkasjldk skldsjdld 
 jshdjmxhjs jlsjdlsjk sdklasi jjsksjhdhj ljjjkddls jjdjdudnj jdfjdj, xi jjdnjdlv kdjflkdlk jdlkao 
 slownjsl kisdjldkalkwai idsjdlsjdidw iljidjlwaidls wij issld jdijsilaj diwljawijdsk iwjjskdjkwk 
 sjdkdjwljdkdjwdiwdijwdijs widjdlwjdiwjdsj jkskdjwijdijdij kwdka wjdksdjwimskd kdjsladwd sdk jwj 
 idwldj  wil jdilawjdwali j aiw wij ij jwjjdja ddj dlwjji jd jdjdldjsljd 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rmgustaf
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 6, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids should be a great game. But the few major annoyances are impossible to ignore.
 
  
  The single player quest-style game is fine. The story is interesting and the rabbids are eerily 
 developed into major characters despite the lack of spoken or written storytelling. The graphics 
 shine here, giving the rabbids depth and emotion, especially during the short cutscenes before 
 the minigames.
  
  The minigames are hit and miss. Some are lots of fun and eminently replayable. Others are not. 
 Though it depends on the person, some of the games were annoying more than fun, though the control 
 was generally spot on. The flying game where you have to pick up pigs is especially annoying, though 
 again, the controls were excellent and a give a good idea of what the Wii is capable of.
  
  There are about 60 minigames. It took about 4 hours of playtime to unlock all of them. Some of 
 them were so annoying I had to take breaks from play to avoid throwing the remote through the TV. 
 Not difficult in the fun way, but in the frustrating, pinpoint accuracy way.
  
  The big problems with the game come during multiplayer mode. The menu to navigate to games, while 
 a cute collage, is useless and complicated, especially for people who haven't played the single 
 player mode.
  
  Many of the games are not simultaneous, meaning people have to take turns. The best party games 
 involve direct competition, like the running, milking, or accuracy games.
  
  Overall, Rayman is an average game. It's worth a rent, but don't be surprised to be let down by 
 the game after the novelty of the crazy rabbids wears off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ebi_Furya
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game, I was intrigued. (Just look at the scientific facts videos 
 about this game and youll be intrigued as well) . What I got was a game that made me laugh out 
 loud and not want to put it down for hours.
  
  Raving Rabbids is a game of mini-games that use the Wiis motion-sensitive controller to its fullest. 
 The Rabbids will have you doing everything from beating them over the head with a hammer to launching 
 them through the air to dancing (my personal favorites) . Throw in multiplayer and what you get 
 is an excellent party game.
  
  * Story
  Yes, Rayman has a story, even if its not fleshed out at all. Hes basically captured and forced 
 to participate in games. His friends, the Globoxes, were also captured, and its up to Rayman to 
 rescue them by participating in the games. Thats about it.
  
  * Graphics
  Graphically, the game is very well done, even if it does have a cartoonish look about it. But 
 you have to remember the subject matter which makes it fit in quite well. A lot of the special 
 effects are very cool.
  
  * Sound
  I love the sound in the game. There are a ton of soundbytes that the Rabbids make and the actual 
 musical score is witty and fun. Plus, the songs for the Dance Games are fast paced and great.
 
  
  * Gameplay
  Here is the meat and potatoes of Rayman: the gameplay. All the mini-games revolve around the 
 use of the Wiis controller. Each mini-game will have you swinging, shaking, twisting, flicking 
 or aiming with the Wiimote and/or nunchuck. There is so much variety in the game its great and 
 the difficulty increases at a steady pace without any huge jumps. By the time you reach the later 
 games, you can really feel it in your arms which is the only drawbackbut the more you play and 
 work those muscles, the less it will affect you :) .
  
  * Overall
  Overall, Rayman Raving Rabbids is an excellent game. I cant wait to get a few friends over and 
 have a Rayman party and truly see how the multi-player stands up. Replayability through the Story 
 Mode is limited. Once youve played through story mode once, there is no reward for doing so again. 
 Its the Score Mode (multiplayer) that makes up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dust24311
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2007 5:16 am PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids (RRR) is the perfect game to get a group of friends addicted to the Wii. 
 It contains about 80 minigames - most of which are excellent, and only a few that suck. I classifly 
 this as an Instant Classic because of the fact that it is a launch title that displays the capabilities 
 of the system, much like the classic game - Duck Hunt.
  
  The gameplay is superb. The Wii reads the Wiimotes very accurately for a satisfying experience. 
 The Area 51 -style shooter minigame is excellent, and I hope a similar game standalone game is 
 released in the future. Precision games are very fun, and stamina games give your arms a workout. 
 It is very satisfying drawing a cinder block with the Wiimote, only to have the brick gobbled up 
 by a Rabbid! One of the minigames that I would stay away from is the squealing pig game. In this 
 game you navigate through a minefield with your only danger warning being a pig squeal emanating 
 from the Wiimote... this is NOT a fun experience, as the Wiimote sound is very cheap. A good deal 
 of humor is thrown into this game. I feel the storyline (or lack thereof) is another bit of humor. 
 I wouldn't expect to have an epic storyline about Rayman escaping the Rabbid's grasp, so any storyline 
 that we get is just humorous in my opinion.
  
  The graphics are average. More detail could have been put into the arena, and creating more arenas 
 would have lessened the monotony.
  
  The sound is pretty awesome. Playing the song-based minigames is a testament to the drumming-based 
 gameplay that the Wii can offer.
  
  Value - The large number of minigames, and the skill that it takes to master them can offer countless 
 hours of gaming. For that reason, I see this game as having a great value!
  
  I will tilt this in a positive direction, as almost everyone that I have shown this game has become 
 addicted to the Wii's innovative gameplay. It is truely a game that novice players can eventually 
 master, and has a low intimidation value. I see this game as being the Duck Hunt of the Wii generation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: materialweapon
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 28, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is definately great. It's funny, cool, interactive but SHORT! WHY!? they could have made 
 this game longer! It only lasts about 8 hours. I really don't think 8 hours is equivalent to $50, 
 come on now. Other than being short, i plain love this game. The humor in this game is the best. 
 You will be laughing for almost every mini game that you play. I really hope they release a sequal 
 on this, but made longer with online and better multiplayer. I really think ho-seat multiplayer 
 is stupid, boring and time wasting. Buy this game if your looking for a funny yet fun game. Thank 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 27, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game in my opinion. The mini-games are pretty fun and theres a lot of them. 
 The main story mode isnt really that long but if you go into the multiplayer mode it gets really 
 fun. Its mostly just mini game after mini game buts that not so bad. You have to use both the wii-remote 
 and the nunchuk controller for most of the games. But for some other ones you only need the wii-remote. 
 Overall if you like random, and bizzare games, you should get this game because its really fun 
 and its not the most expensive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 6.9
Date: Feb 26, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Id be lying if I told you I had played the Rayman games before Raving Rabbids came out. Nothing 
 had really peaked my interest in the series until now. With the addition of Raving Rabbids to the 
 Rayman franchise, the game has moved away from the platformer style game, and become a party game 
 not unlike Mario Party.
  
  But where has Mario Party has the advantage of many titles in the series, Rayman falls short in 
 a couple areas in its first entry into the genre. Despite some technical mishaps, Raving Rabbids 
 is still an addictive and fun game.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Raving Rabbids is unique among party games on the Wii. Not because its games are any different, 
 but because of the Rabbids. These weird bunnies serve as the villains for the game. At the start 
 of the game they kidnap Rayman and force him to partake in various mini-games that involve everything 
 from shooting Rabbids with plungers to disco dancing. Its weak on story, but it serves its purpose 
 to play more games.
  
  All this is done using both the Wii controller and the nunchuck. Some of the min-games are mind-numbingly 
 easy, while others force you to do movements so quickly that at times I felt like I was going to 
 pull a muscle. This makes for un-even gameplay, and while none of the games are difficult, you 
 will find that the requirements to pass them are steep. This means that youll often be replaying 
 the same game until you finally pass it.
  
  Despite the un-even mini-games, the Rabbids are what make the game fun. They are some of the goofiest, 
 and weirdest villains I have ever seen. Even though I didnt like some of the mini-games, I always 
 was looking forward to the next game just to see what those crazy Rabbids were up to now.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Raving Rabbids is really behind the curve when it comes to graphics. On the technical 
 side theyre so basic that they look like an early game cube game. Rough edges, and bland textures 
 are the norm. However, from an artistic point-of-view the game isnt so bad. The Rabbids are well 
 designed, and offer a wide variety of facial expressions and emotions. This makes them even more 
 likeable, and makes the lackluster graphics more tolerable.
  
  SOUND
  The games sounds are also sub-par for the platform. Theres no voiceovers expect for the occasional 
 Baaaaaahhhh!! from the Rabbids. The sound effects are cartoonish as you would expect, but sound 
 bland and muffled. The music fits the mood of the scene or min-game, but again it still sounds 
 bland and forgettable.
  
  VALUE
  Raving Rabbids could be called a single player party game. This is because although it technically 
 is multi-player, it cant be played this way until you complete the single player mini-games. I 
 was very disappointed about this because I had purchased it as a multi-player game, but now Im 
 forced to unlock new games via single player instead of being able to play them right away through 
 multi-player.
  
  Theres also the problem that most of the games are turn based multi-player. In other words, 
 the players take turns playing the mini-games instead of playing at the same time. This makes it 
 feel more like a single player game, and less like the party game its billed as.
  
  Despite these technical shortcomings, Raving Rabbids is still a fun, and wacky game. If youre 
 looking for a single player game, full of wacky characters and mini-games, then look no further. 
 However, if you are like me, and expecting a party game, dont bother. The shallow multi-player 
 will disappoint you. Hopefully Ubisoft can get some of these technical kinks worked out for the 
 next game, because Im looking forward to seeing more of those crazy Rabbids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Idnuf636
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 21, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids is the latest game in the Rayman series that took a dip after the great Rayman 
 2. This time, instead of being a platform adventure, the game is a quirky mini-game collection 
 that satisfies, but gets you sometimes angry.
  
  Graphics:
  This game is average in the Wii spectrum of graphics so far. They aren't terrible, but they could 
 have been much better.
  
  Gameplay:
  This is a mini-game collection. While some are very fun, some suffer. Certain games though, have 
 a need for precise aiming or turning with the wiimote and overestimate the control of the wii and 
 become hard. In one particular game; Bunnies Never Close Doors, the sensing would many times not 
 work on the far right stall as you tried to close a door very quickly. In another example, I don't 
 remember the name but it was where you had to guide a pig back to its mother across of field of 
 hidden bunnies, that resembles mines on a minefield. You listened for how much the pig would scream 
 when you went near objects to determine if there was a bunny or not. The sound came out of the 
 wii remote. However the sounds would repeatedly not play or be all screwed up and it wouldn't matter 
 anyway, as the pig yelled loudly at every object. What i found worked was walking slightly facing 
 front and slightly at the wall. It would walk into the wall and go forward at the same time. There, 
 i tried a couple times until it worked and i stayed across the wall the whole time to the end. 
 Those are just 2 games though, and there are many more in the game that are good. By playing these 
 games in story mode you unlock songs to play in your cell and new costumes to wear. Overall a good 
 game.
  
  Sound:
  The sound in this game, excluding the game explained above, is good. The bunnies yelling is still 
 hilarious as they run across the screen. The other music is good, but not terrific. Some of the 
 games it is funny though, like in a shooting sequence in the wild west, there is a radio that starts 
 playing hula music.
  
  Value:
  This game, once you get passed certain mini-games that take a while to get through, this is a short 
 game. Not as short as warioware, which takes less than 2 hours to beat, this game will take you 
 from 5 to 10 hours. However, the multiplayer add much longevity to the game and it is a great game 
 for a party after you beat the story and have all the good games.
  
  Tilt:
  This is very fun game, with much lasting value if you can find someone to play with. Overall a 
 great game, and i recommend it.
  
  Non-attribute scoring:
  The difficulty i put as just right because there are mini-games so it is hard so i put it because 
 some are easy, some hard and some just right. 10 hours or less because nobody really wanted to 
 play with me except for once so i got bored of singleplayer a bit. The learning is again hard because 
 it is mini-games. Because of that i put 0 to 30 minutes because it wont take over 30 min to beat 
 a mini-game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFoxCOM
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Ray man Raving rabbids (RRR) is a new game for the wii. Instade of taking the Tridional Platfroming 
 Apporch to Rayman. RRR is a minigame Collection with over 70 Mini games. The idea is Rabbits capture 
 rayman and the force you on to there gameshow. Which is divided up into days. Each day you can 
 do 4 difffernt mini games and then after you complete at least 3 of them you go to a boss stage. 
 All most all of them get you into a FPS where you use no guns but instade plungers. And you shoot 
 bunnies instade of people. The Wii picks up your motions really well. In the FPS mode you get a 
 score. To get more points per kill. You have to have so many kills per clip (5 Plungers) your 3rd 
 hit with a clip is good rating, your 4th kill with a clip is great. And your 5th kill with a clip 
 is Perfect. Good is times 2 a normal kill. great is times 3. and perfect is time 4 a normal kill. 
 There are many minigames in RRR cow tossing, Putting Carot juice in bunnies masks. Running. And 
 all of these put the Wii moat to great use example. Running is moving your Nunchuck and Wii-moat 
 up and down up and down up and down really fast. Soccer is charging the ball you did like you do 
 in the running minigame. Then aiming for the corners of the goal. the games it's self is short 
 and lasts about 7 hours. Graphics and sounds are what you would expect probably abouve avarge. 
 All Games are Multi player actavated and have highscores. so you will defintly get way over 7 hours 
 of gameplay. Overall Rayman Raving Rabbids in a game that most wii owners should rent or buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowghawk
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 19, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredibly fun, but didn't last long enough. At the beginning, the only mode you can 
 play is story mode. This provides a good 5 or 6 hours of game play. Most of story mode is a huge 
 collection of bunny themed minigames, and is very fun. At least a quarter of these games are just 
 harder versions of past ones: Part 2 and Part 3. These games can become hard and tedious, some 
 lasting three minutes or more. So after you've spent your two days or less on story mode, you can 
 play.... versus!!!! You can replay all of your favorite games from story mode... taking turns with 
 a friend!! After you've passed out with excitement from the five or six minutes of fun that versus 
 mode gave you, there is challenge mode. Challenge mode forces you to get perfect scores (or some 
 of the best times possible) three to five times in a row. After spending three or four hours on 
 it, and not even having the first one beaten, I gave up. I also read on multiple forums that if 
 you even manage to complete challenge mode, the reward does not appear and is never accessible. 
 The graphics are colorful, flashy, and exciting. Too bad they don't look very good... . The sound 
 was great and interactive. This game is a must play, but you should probably just rent it instead 
 of buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirby456
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 17, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  I played the PS2 version, which I thought was fun, but the analog controls get a bit frustrating, 
 then I play the Wii version. What do I think of this version? Good on the PS2, but AMAZING on the 
 Wii! Th fourth installment of the series finds our limbless hero in an awkward situation: Bunnies 
 or Rabbids have kidnapped him and his friends, and now, in a gladiator type situation, he must 
 play through crazy mini-games for his freedom.
  
  Gameplay: Perfect!
  This is the most unique game on the Wii next to WarioWare Smooth Moves. Some mini-games allow you 
 to use your hands like you were running, drumsticks, and many others uses. Also, the game itself 
 is a fun little title demanding attention. The funniest mini-game in my book, was Bunnies have 
 a great ear for music, in which you had to slap bunnies that were out of tune. A lot of fun!
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  This is the very first thing I noticed about this version... the graphics 
 were waaayyy better than the PS2 version. From the selected mini-games to detail (In the Shake 
 your Booty! mini-games, some of the bunnies are different colors, the bunnies have a bit more... how 
 should I put this... enthusiasm than they do in the PS2 version during the FPS mini-games. Like 
 in Bunnies don't like being disturbed on holiday, the bunnies will literally wake up if disturbed...)
 
  
  Sound: Perfect
  
  Yesssss!!! From remixed versions of Girls just Wanna Have Fun, and La Bamba, to the Rabbids crazy 
 little screams and stupid idiotic stares, the sound will not only make you laugh, but dance to 
 the many songs.
  
  Replay Value: Perfect
  
  You have an account on Rayman Zone? Think you're the best player ever? You can play Score mode 
 and get codes to submit on the site to become the best of the best. And there are so many mini-games 
 to choose from... HOORAY! Move over Mario Party, looks like you have some competition!
  
  Reviewers' Tilt: 9/10
  
  You'd have to be someone with no good sense of humour whatsoever to 
 hate this game.
  
  Overall: Get it right now!
  
  Rayman fans may be disappointed, but, hey, with a funny game like this, you can't help but smile 
 at those darned bunnies...
  
  Good: Unique gameplay, simply hillarious, good use of songs, 70+ mini-games.
  
  Bad: Where's 
 dialogue when you need it? A bit repetitive at times... rayman fans may be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguindude24
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2007 4:07 am PT
Review:  o my god this game is hillarious. its a must get for every wii fan boy.
  i still cant stop thinking about all of the fun times i had abusing rabbits in this game ha ha 
 ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha. one thig is its 
 only like 6 hours long. but you'll be laughing the whole time so it dosnt matter. and u need a 
 nunchuck.......... so if u dont ave one tough luck. and the fps mini games are really fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulflyer13
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 16, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  If you buy a game together with your Wii, better buy a real game.
  As a shooter/adventure fan I hate minigames, they waste games, and what if a game exists out of 
 minigames only?
  Hmm, on that side it's not really dissapointing cause this game can be fun anyway.
  Due to graphical 
 and online multiplayer handicaps, a Wii game should be incredible at points like sound and gameplay, 
 or the fun factor of course.
  Hmm, this game is definetely very, very funny and I've laughed often playing it, but what else 
 actually?
  I played rayman 2 til the disc was broken, literally, and I just wanted a next-gen version of the 
 game with the legless bignose.
  And what do I get? A compilation of 60 minigames... woohoo...
  Yes, it's fun, like splinter cell 
 bunnies popping up time to time for example.
  And dancing bunnies, it's fun, but not much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsplayer1010
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 15, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids is not like previous games (except Rayman Arena sorta,) Instead of a platformer, 
 it is a party game. And this isn't a Mario Party rip-off either, it is a party game with many enjoyable 
 games.
  
  the games in rayman have a wide range and are mostly enjoyable. the games range from on-rail fps's 
 to disco dancing (my two favorites,) to soccor to cow throwing. some of the ones that aren't so 
 good are Bunnies are heartless with pigs and bunnies dont slide. the games are really fun to play 
 with friends too.
  
  another thing about rayman that i like is that it is really funny. especially the bunnies, who 
 are the guys who who kidnapped rayman and made him to compete in these games. the bunnies's humor 
 in the games include the getting hit in face with plungers, running into beartraps, getting kicked 
 into soccor goals, and them shoughting, Daggggggggggghhhhhhhhhhhh. (its funnier whan you watch 
 it yourself.)
  
  in conclusion rayman is agreat game. the minigames are fun, they are great for multiplayer and 
 it is funny. so if you are looking for a game thats great fun and with great multiplayer, than 
 this game is great for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tom_7991
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 11, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  I got this game thinking well its just going to be another compilation of mini games . But this 
 game melds the mini games into a compelling story line (GOD, i wanted to reach that window) .
  
  I was addicted thinking, Oh please just one more round . The collesction of costumes and what 
 not is kinda pointless but a nice little add-on. I thought it was awesome how the bunnies change 
 over time. Firs they boo you and support the bunnies. Then they get bored and upset because you 
 win the whole time. THEN your cell is turned into a luxurious abode and you are almost worshipped 
 by a horde of screaming little fuzz-balls.
  
  its fun
  
  wacky
  
  attractive
  
  simple
  
  enjoyable
  
  good game to have for the wii
  
  peace out
  
  tommy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hakkans
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 26, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  ---Well, Rayman is back, but this time there is only Rayman's name, the stars are raving rabbiDs. 
 Well Rayman Raving Rabbids (RRR) includes 75 minigames which makes great use of Wii Remote. The 
 controls are great but how about the other things. Well...
  
  ---On a peaceful day, Rayman and his green friends (named Globox) are having a picnic. Suddenly, 
 rabbiDs appear and kidnap our green friends. Then a rabbiD (?) which looks like a gorilla, takes 
 Rayman and brings him to arena which has 4 doors (minigames) . Our hero must finish at least three 
 of them to open the final door and then to finish the day. If you finish a day, you come to your 
 shell. You can change your clothes, listen to music and review day's games. There is one more thing 
 but it's about the story. Whatever. That's the main story.
  
  ---Graphics are not superb, it looks like a PS2 game but its style is great.
  
  ---Those rabbids 
 sound great and other things are average. Nothing bad after all.
  
  ---However I must explain that the game's story mode ends in a few days. Score mode (multiplayer) 
 saves the game and makes longer. You can have fun with your friends in this mode or just play yourself 
 and beat the high scores. Some of them are really hard.
  
  ---RRR may be short but with those crazy rabbiDs and unique minigames RRR puts a smile on your 
 face and gets 8.5
  
  -----------------I mean -----------------
  +: RabbiDs, unique uses of Wii remote, the game is challenging, rabbiDs sound great.
  -: It is 
 short, not superb graphics, music could be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimBurber
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 8, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed playing this game, the minigames can get you up and moving, laughing hysterically, 
 and then leave you scratching your head when you are done. In fact, I found myself saying with 
 a smile multiple times... what just happened?!?! in a did I really just see that??!?! sort of way. 
 Using the wii remote in many unique ways turns most mini games into an experience that makes each 
 game feel different. However, one downfall is you do end up playing some of the same games over 
 and over again, in just a longer more difficult stage. Multi-player leaves a little bit to be desired 
 as well... the only multi-player is in a mode called score mode where you simply choose a game 
 from some constructed puzzle pictures where each piece is a different game. It can be confusing 
 to even find the game you want to play in the first place, and then when you want to play a different 
 game you have to go and locate that one as well. No ability to choose a randomized selection really 
 hinders the multiplayer mode, that way you get a chance to compete with friends without the lead 
 player choosing each level for themselves.
  
  All in all though, a real great play. Fun games that you will want to retry for a higher score, 
 and challenge your friends to beat you can add the replay value that any party game needs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjj13
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 5, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Like I said this game can be played for the whole family. These funny mini games can keep you playing 
 for hours at a time. The multiplayer is fun. You get to play with a friend and laugh at the noises 
 the bunnies make. About that, the bunnies make the funniest noises. One example is: BBBBAAAAAHHHH! 
 That is their favorite. You may be wondering why it is a 9.9 instead of a 10. IT is because the 
 single player is a bit short. Don't get me wrong it is a great game. I highly suggest this to anyone 
 with a sense of humor. I hope this review helped you buy this game!
  
  Thanks for reading! -
  John JJ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wormplayer
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 5, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  this was the third wii game i got, including zelda and sports, and i can honestly say that this 
 is the best one that ive played yet. the story could use a bit of work, but the story isnt that 
 important, seeing as this is a party game. if this were an rpg or something, it would be more of 
 a problem. the wiimote didnt give me much of a problem, however there are a few that are a bit 
 buggy. the graphics, while not great, do a pretty good job as far as im concerned. the music is 
 great, featuring some really awesome tunes. some of it is reused, but it never gets boring because 
 of the increasingly difficult moves you have to perform. all in all, this is a pretty great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_mak123
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 3, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids is one hilarious game. There are tons of mini games that go hand &amp; hand 
 with the wiimote. This game is perfect to show off how fun the wii controls are and how fun the 
 wii can actually be. The story is the only weak part of this game. It feels kind of tacked on and 
 pointless. They might as well just let us play the minigames kinda like mario party. But other 
 than that everything else is pretty good. Oh and the graphics. It looks kinda gamcubish. But what 
 do you expect. If your looking for something wierd and just wanna have fun Rayman is the game for 
 you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Jaminson
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2007 9:31 pm PT
Review:  The game starts off with Rayman having a picnic on a seemingly perfect summer day when the crazed 
 Rabbids explode out from the ground and ruin his lunch. It seems that from the start the Rabbids 
 want to take over the world, and maybe they do, but all they do is capture Rayman and emprison 
 him in some sort of stadium along with a bunch of funny looking frogs in different cells. Every 
 day they force Rayman to peform a series of 5 tests, usually consisting of injuring other Rabbids. 
 The gameplay in general was in fact pretty innovative. The premise to the game (5 minigames per 
 day, one is always a ryhtm based dancing thingy) allows a lot of room for creative minigames and 
 not just things to give the game a slightly better value. Some of the minigames were very well 
 done and were extremely fun such as the rhythm game where you must swing either the nunchuck or 
 the remote as if playing the drums as rabbids passed a certain point on the screen. However, some 
 occasional poorly made minigames are also in this game, such as one where you must navigate a simple 
 maze while holding a pig with rabbids in the ground. You must avoid the rabbids by listening to 
 the pig's squeals, via the speaker on the remote. The problem is a lot of the time the sounds fails 
 completely to come out. The sound in the game is pretty great as well. The few things that really 
 stand out are the voices of the rabbids themselves. While they dont really speak, they hall have 
 these hilarious yells and screams that they do. Those will keep you laughing or at least smiling 
 throughout the entire game. Other than that the sound is just generally impressive with some cool 
 little tunes playing while you play the minigames. The graphics in this game are amongst the best 
 of all Wii titles to date. They are one of the few examples so far of how the Wii is indeed capable 
 of more than the old Gamecube graphics. The rabbids look funny, a big part of that to their facial 
 expressions. But the game just looks good overall, crisp character models, detailed backrounds 
 and more than often a very smooth framerate. You cant complain about this graphics all, you're 
 more likely to be pleased by them. The main story wont take you a very long time, but as you play 
 through it, it is guaranteed that you will want to play more than half of them many more times. 
 So you just go to score mode where you can play everygame youve cleared in the story thus far. 
 This is also where multiplayer is played, which i must say is quite fun. Rayman is, in my opinion, 
 one of the better launch games. Its humour is almost enough to warrant a purchase by itself. If 
 you have two remotes and nunchucks then the multilayer can be a total blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danidame
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 31, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Rayman has come a long way is right!
  
  This game is just plain fun. It is easy to handle yet not so easy that its boring. Its one of those 
 games where you want to play each level five times! You'll just have to buy it to see for yourself. 
 Rayman has come a long way since his first games! At one point I was stuck on the Bathroom Door 
 Closing Level. However, even though I was having trouble with it, I enjoyed it every time I retryed 
 it.
  
  The graphics are good and the sounds of shreiking bunnies are great! I also enjoy the ability to 
 change his clothing to Rayman, Granny, Disco, or Gangsta!
  
  One word: Definately! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toa_cookie52
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 31, 2007 3:19 am PT
Review:  Rayman was a seriously great series. Then came Rayman Arena, Rayman's debut in the party genre! 
 It awfully sucked. When I heard about Rayman, I thought it was gonna be crap. I thought wrong.
 
  
  Raving Rabbids puts you in the shoes of (who else) Rayman. A limbless being. He was having fun in 
 a while when he gets captured by mental creatures called Rabbids. He gets thrown into a prison 
 cell and needs to complete certain tasks to receive plungers. These plungers are used to form a 
 ladder to reach the extremely high window in your cell, which will bring you to freedom. The story 
 could have used some improvement, though.
  
  Humor is one of the major aspects of Rayman 4. The Rabbids are vicious, but seriously insane. They're 
 strangely adorable. The Rabbids may be the best video game villains ever. There are also some other 
 humor parts in the game. Like every time you receive plungers and plant them to the wall, a bird 
 will come out of the window and crap on Rayman's face.
  
  There are also some enjoyable minigames. And they also won't make you throw your Wiimote into the 
 TV. Some of the most enjoyable minigames are the on-rail shooters (which parody FarCry and Doom 
 3) and the dancing minigames. There are over 70+ minigames in the game, including an Okami-esque 
 type of game. These are usually fun but they use the same formula over and Over and OVER again.
 
  
  The graphics are fair, in a painfully honest kind of way. The Rabbids and Rayman are done perfectly. 
 The enviroments look great and the characters are perfectly animated. The only thing that sucks 
 about the graphics is that Rayman DOES NOT SUPPORT PROGRESSIVE SCAN! HEED MY WARNING 480p USERS!
 
  
  Sound is also amazing. The music in the dancing games have only a few, but you'll hear a Rabbid 
 sung version of Girls just wanna have fun and Hip Hop Hooray . No real speech. Only gibberish. 
 But you'll hear words like Hey and Wow . The best sound ever would be the DAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAH 
 of the rabbids, which you'll hear frequently throughout the game.
  
  I don't know whether people would pick this game up, since Rayman hasn't seen the light of day 
 for years. If you're a Rayman fan, like party games or have a Wii, this game is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameOnBrain
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 29, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  My first experience with Michael Ancel was through Beyond Good and Evil, which is one of my favorite 
 games. I was expecting a few chuckles in this Wario Ware type game. After competing in the cow 
 toss for the first time, I was laughing out loud, something a game hardly ever provokes. I genuinely 
 loved this game. This is one of the nicest Wii games to look at thus, far, in my opinion. The sound 
 is outstanding. Hearing all of the canny sounds the bunnies make never gets old. The game manages 
 to combine all of these elements with inventive mini-games that take advantage of the Nintendo 
 Wii. Raving Rabids is an entertaining game, and is hilarious in a Looney Tunes and Ren and Stimpy 
 kind of way, and that is right up my ally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mahues_dagon
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  rayman raving rabbids is a fun family game where u play as rayman ( who would have guessed) and 
 u get captured by the rabbids and u have to compete in a buch of mini games
  the minigames are fun but some can be difficult if you have no clue what to do which can happen 
 lots
  the graphics are not a strong point in this game but the gameplay makes up for it the most fun 
 minigames are the shooters where u have to shoot them with plungers also a really fun 1 is tossing 
 super rabbid to make him fly
  getting this game would be a good idea if ur willing to spend a quick few hours playing it becouse 
 thats how short this game is so you may want to rent this game before u buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkDemyze
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 29, 2007 7:01 am PT
Review:  The Good: Games are fun and addictive; Show your friends why the Wiimote is better than the controller 
 they are using; What the heck is A Rabbid ?
  
  The Bad: Graphics could use some tweaking; multiplayer is a bit lacking; recycled games with few 
 added tricks.
  -------------------------------------------------------------
  Rabbits. So, many, rabbits! With this many rabbits working together, you can imagine they would 
 create quite a clamor and without a doubt they do. So what is this bunch of buck-toothed, fat-headed, 
 bunnies up to you ask? Well, they want to take over the world of course and what better place to 
 start than with our old friend Rayman. You remember Rayman, don't you? That no armed, no legged 
 guy that started out as a platformer back on the original Playstation. Well, a sequel this is not 
 and the apple has fallen quite far from the tree this time.
  
  The story is told through a series of cut scenes with no dialogue, so it's not hard to miss the 
 point. Basically Rayman and his friends are captured, while minding their own, by a horde of out-of-control 
 psycho-rabbits that seem to be obsessed with plungers. No, it doesn't make much sense but given 
 the nature of the game it doesn't have to; and Rayman flourishes anyway. The mini-games are what 
 really count and they manage to please and satisfy every time.
  
  So by being captured, you are forced to compete in a series of games to provide the rabbits with 
 entertainment, gladiator style. There is nothing quite like seeing a few hundred screaming rabbits 
 shaking spatulas, dynamite, and plungers at you! You are thrown into a stadium where you are presented 
 with four gates where you can choose what game you would like to play. The instructions are somewhat 
 vague and unhelpful in many of the games and you will find it easier to just play the game and 
 simply figure out what to do. Despite that, once you get into the game it's a ton of fun and some 
 can be very addictive.
  
  While there are far too many games to cover here, a few highlights are: one game that requires 
 you to grab worms that protrude from a rabbid's teeth and yank them out by the neck before they 
 go back in and rot the Rabbids teeth. And another that has you milk a cow by raising and lowering 
 the Wiimote and nunchuck up and down in sync with each other. In another game, you have to pump 
 carrot juice by raising and lowering the nunchuck and aiming the juice stream with the wiimote 
 in order to drown a swarm of bunnies before they get to you. As you may have guessed, the games 
 make extremely good use of the Wiimote and if you needed a reason to show someone what all the 
 fuss is about the Wii - this would be it.
  
  You only have to beat three out of the four mini-games in order to advance onto the next goal, 
 but completing all four games unlocks a new costume or song for your jukebox back in new humble 
 abode. The costumes are funny and can make for some comical combinations, but serve no real purpose 
 outside simple aesthetic. The center gate, once unlocked is normally a first-person-shooter type 
 game reminiscent of the old Time Crisis arcade game, or a race of some sort, that must be completed 
 in order to move on to the next stage. The FPS games are fun at first, but become obnoxious due 
 to the slow pace at which you are forced to move through the level. Then when you complete the 
 challenge, you are given a plunger and sent back to your cell. The use for the plungers become 
 apparent early on.
  
  Contrary to there being 70+ mini-games packed in, once you get about half way through the game 
 you begin to see many of the same games with additional things added in to make it a bit more challenging. 
 Yet somehow it still feels like you are playing the same game. Though this may be true, it doesn't 
 take away from the amusement of the games, they remain compelling even after the initial luster 
 of excitement is gone. Even still, once the main game is beaten, you can go back and play through 
 all of the games and try to get the high score to earn 1000 points on each. Many of these scores 
 are very difficult to get and offer no real reward aside from a few obscure videos and maybe bragging 
 rights to someone else you know who has the game (or doesnt have the game?) . But somehow that 
 probably will not stop you from wanting to go back and achieve at least some of the scores anyway 
 thanks to the addictive game play and feeling of accomplishment you have when you manage to smack 
 100+ rabbids in the head in under a minute.
  
  Unfortunately though, the multiplayer suffers. While it does have a multiplayer option by playing 
 score mode, out of the box party mode is not one of those options. In fact, the games have to be 
 unlocked by playing, and winning, them in single player mode to even play them with other people. 
 This is disappointing when being labeled as a party game . Despite this set-back a lot of the games 
 are still just as fun, if not more fun, to play against other people as they are to play in single 
 player. There is no online multiplayer though, and no integrated leaderboard. If you want to compare 
 your scores to other gamers you have to write down a long-winded code and type it in online to 
 see how you stack up.
  
  Other than the mini-games, is there much else to this title? Well, not really. But there doesn't 
 need to be! If nothing else the Rabbids alone make this one worth playing. The Rabbids' random 
 shrieks and hare-brained antics are hilarious from beginning to end. They have sort of an abstract 
 charm to them with their blank stares and animated killer instinct. And oddly enough, their weapon 
 of choice is a plunger if you havent taken notice already. How a wooden stick with a piece of 
 rubber on the end came to be an instrument of world conquer looks to be beyond explanation, but 
 it makes for some very amusing situations.
  
  The graphics are pretty lacking. They aren't bad though, just not up to par with what else is available. 
 Even other Wii games have proven the Wii is capable of more than this. But because the core of 
 the game play is based around the Wiimote anyway, most of the time it shouldn't be much of a bother. 
 However with that being said, the bunnies themselves still look great. Even with the low level 
 of detail encompassing each rabbit, they still manage to have a bizarre and cute appeal to them.
 
  
  The sound is pretty well done. The howls and squeaks the rabbids are constantly making really help 
 give the impression of being surrounded by waves of insane rabbits and giving new life to a previously 
 silent animal. The licensed soundtrack helps lend to some of the games by having you dance by moving 
 the wiimote and nunchuck to the beat of the song. Hearing Cyndi Lauper remixed in the voices of 
 rabbits is amusing to say the least.
  
  All and all this is a worthwhile game that truly shows off what the Wii can do. And it's true that 
 this game is multiplatform, but if you want to really get the full experience, this is the only 
 version worth playing. Hopefully we will see more games come out for the Wii that can take the 
 use of the motion sensing abilities beyond the gimmicky things we have seen thus far. But until 
 that next title comes out, the Rabbids with make you to keep performing random acts of entertainment 
 for them, and you will like it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan12_2004
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 27, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids is a pretty fun game and makes good use of the Wii remote. The only bad thing 
 was that the story-line was a bit untouched. You go from having a picnic to being forced to play 
 mini-games for crazy rabbits. Other than that the game is fun. There are dozens and dozens of many 
 games that are fun, challenging, and hilarious. The bunnies are really funny and it's just hard 
 not to laugh at them. There are many different mini-games. You go from dancing, to sky-diving, 
 to hurling cows and jumping rope.
  Gameplay: Like I said, It'd just a really fun game to play
  Graphics: Could've used a little 
 more work but they were still pretty good
  Sound: When you play the Dancing mini-games (1 on every level) You can really get into the groove 
 with the music
  Value: It's good but if you Really REALLY want to be on the safe side then rent it first (but you'll 
 probablly buy it anyway)
  Overall. It's a great game and It had me laughing and playing the whole time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Basher96
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 26, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  This game was very entertaining. It was very out there. Possibly one of the most insane experiences 
 I've had playing a game. Although all the mini games are fun... I was expecting them. I believe 
 that this game was given away too much before it came out. I watched many videos and viewed screenshots. 
 So pretty much nothing was a surprise.
  
  Also this game was fairly easy... Most of the time beating each mini game the first try. This game 
 has very much potential but doesn't live up to the hype. I will probably buy a sequel if there 
 is one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyben
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is a fun family activity game. This rayman game is'nt like any old rayman game this has 
 all sorts of activities such as dancing, running and a lot more random mini games. Especially for 
 wii this game is full of fun and humour. This is a great party piece. When rayman was first ever 
 made it had a completly differant stlye of gameplay and did not have much fun and humour in it 
 as it used be like one of the first ever type of sonic game. but this is quite good graphics not 
 da nest ever but it is still about average in graphical concept. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aragorn_159
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 23, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Rayman has never been in my taste for video games. I always tought it was a bad Mario. But now, 
 with Raving Rabbids, it takes another dimension. In the pure WarioWare style (which just got in 
 stores) the game is based on multiple minigames SOO funny you can't hate it. The rabbids are just 
 goofy and still brilliantly designed. But there's not only funny rabbits in this game: there is 
 some bad sides. The animation is sometime getting ridiculous (I think espescially of the rabbits 
 in the arena between mini-games) . In fact, the overall game is not what we could call beautiful 
 . It's more like acceptable . The story is also a BIG pretext to whack poor little animals. (lol) 
 That's about it for the bads.
  
  The goods so good that it overwhelms the bads. The Wiimote is just perfectly used in almost every 
 game. The difficulty of the games are increasing slowly but safely, though some games (the kind 
 of ball in the rabbit brain) are very hard at some time. And I must say I got really tired of the 
 music game and the shooter game which comes almost every stages.
  
  The bottom line is: this games is one of the best right now on the Wii and is definitely worth 
 a try. The multiplayer is kinda limited, but will draw you a laugh for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simian92
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 20, 2007 11:56 pm PT
Review:  first off, i would like to say that is not, the same as warioware and mario party. raving rabbids 
 is more like their mad cousin that rants about colliseums and psycho rabbits.
  
  
  
  gameplay: 10
  (note, i grade by how overall i thought the gameplay was, as well as what type 
 of game style it was aiming at)
  
  i have to say, in a world where instant fun is king, this doesn't stand up well, the games take 
 about 5 seconds to load up, and most last around 30 seconds. but thats not where this shines. and 
 not how i grade. the games are usually set up very well, and they range from a form of beat-holding 
 to keeping doors closed for bunnies using the lavatories to shooting people with plungers. each 
 game has their own instruction page and a witty name that usally begins with bunnies don't or bunnies 
 can't . the shooting levels tend to work better then some shooting games. all you do is point, 
 hit b , then shake the nunchuck to reload.
  the game is set up in a form of four tests , and one boss for each day.
  all you need to do is 
 complete three of the four tests to open the boss door. if you beat all of them, you get eaither 
 a new style of clothing to wear or a song for the jukebox in your room. the boss level is usually 
 a shooting game to save one of your friends, but they are somtimes races as well.
  you also don't have to beat all 4 of the tests right then, when you return to your room, you can 
 check your john and recap , play any of the tests for any of the previous days 
  
  graphics: 10
  (note, i grade by what style of graphics the game is going for.) rayman: raving 
 rabbids really hits the button for rayman graphics, all of the childish art style of previous raymans. 
 not much else to say
  
  sound: 9
  (note, i grade sound by how they tie in with the gameplay)
  
  with well-known songs to beat-keep 
 to, from pump it, to girls just wanna have fun, the beat-levels are good. and the sounds from shooting 
 plungers is good, but the impact sounds of them isn't that amazing suction-ey sound i was hoping 
 for.
  
  thats it, pretty superb game out there, and for the wii, there are'nt any killer apps (save zelda, 
 which i didn't like) , just diferent games, and this is one of those different games, so, id suggest 
 getting it, its fun, its entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RogerC44
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 20, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay for this game is still good but not as entertaining as the previous Rayman Games. 
 At first I thought you were able to play games but still use your fists to whack the rabbids too. 
 But in this game you can't use your fists heck you can't even jump. When your as used to the controlls 
 as I was you can even count how many more plungers you need to climb out the window. I still play 
 it but it's just too too short. If you like Rayman go get this game but other than that dont' buy 
 it. The mini games are pretty cool I defenitley like the plunger shooting. The Rabbids are pretty 
 funny at times which I like too. To unlock songs and costumes complete all four mini games plain 
 and simple isn't it? I wish you could have use Rayman's fists but you can't. So I guess I have 
 to wait for the next Rayman game to come out hopefully it won't take me less than 5 hours to complete 
 the whole thing. I give this game a thumbs up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheik_n_Zelda
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 16, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Imagine for a moment that you're in the shoes of Michel Ancel, the most-well known member of Ubisoft's 
 Rayman team. The higher-ups of the company have called you into their offices, pitting an uneasy 
 feeling in the depths of your stomach. You think, Have I done something wrong, am I in trouble? 
 As you trek through the building, you feel you're about to lose the lunch you just had, and gosh 
 it was tasty too. You finally make it to the room which you think is going to host your occupational 
 execution, only to be flabbergasted by a quick and simple demand. Mr. Ancel, we want you to come 
 up with a brand new concept for a unique villain, step on itnow! 
  
  Exhaling a heavy sigh of relief, you leave quickly and return to your main office, informing your 
 team of what just happened. Little did the guy behind Rayman know that what would ultimately surface 
 from his challenge turns out to be neither human nor beast. Take your average, every day rabbit, 
 rip away most of its intelligence, teeth and usual physical appearance, and you have what Mr. Ancel 
 conjured up in his undoubtedly substance-abused mind. We now have a new species, known simply as 
 Rabbids, that stands on two legs, has two primary teeth and one heck of a random outburst problem.
 
  
  Rayman Raving Rabbids is a title among several when it comes to the launch of the Nintendo Wii. 
 This particular game was easily the second most hyped alongside Red Steel when it was first revealed 
 by the Ubisoft Montpelier studio. Unless you haven't seen the news since about a year ago, it's 
 no surprise that Ubi has been Nintendo's most significant source of third party support for the 
 newest generation of console gaming. What makes RRR so unique though, is not only the implementation 
 of the revolutionary controllers, but that it's also Rayman's first adventure that features no 
 pure platforming elements whatsoever. What's been brought to us is a compilation of over 70 mini-games 
 that features a limbless hero and the hilariously 'outspoken' Rabbids in a huge variety of scenarios.
 
  
  Those crazy bunnies have been planning world domination in their little underground world for years, 
 how about that? But unlike cicadas (locusts) , these buggers aren't the least bit annoying. Unfortunately 
 poor Rayman finds himself stuck right in the middle of the ensuing conflict, and just as he's trying 
 to enjoy a picnic with this friends, how rude! He's captured by the emperor Rabbid and taken to 
 a nasty cell in what looks like a giant coliseum. What his newly discovered adversaries don't know 
 is Ubisoft's platforming mascot has the ability to win them over with his charm, and bizarre acts 
 of entertainment.
  
  Yeah, this is a very strange game, and hopefully you've come to understand that to this point. 
 In any case, what does Rayman have to do in order to become the Rabbids' unsung hero? It's very 
 simple, participate in over 70 different activities to show these little guys that he should get 
 some cheering, not jeering. This is where the very unique style of gameplay comes into the equation. 
 Using only the motion capabilities of each Wii controller and the A or Z buttons, players are thrown 
 into a number of Rabbid abusing occasions. The beauty of this is that there's absolutely no complexity 
 whatsoever. While there are times that you may be slightly confused on how to play one of these 
 games, they are overall a laugh to experience, literally.
  
  A majority of the activities requires any of four courses of action: move both controllers up and 
 down quickly, tilt the Wii remote, point with the Wii-mote and gesture with either controller or 
 use the Wii-mote as if you're playing a FPS. Fairly simple stuff all things considered. Amongst 
 the over 70 scenarios, you'll be launching the Rabbids and other animals through the air, keeping 
 their outhouse doors closed, dancing with them in a nightclub, shooting them and so many other 
 things. Most of these showcases, only describable as 'loco', will spawn a few laughs and chuckles 
 as well as a feeling of pure gameplay satisfaction. The only really complaint here is some noticeable 
 repetition in the activities that prove the most enjoyable. A few exhibit a lack of entertainment 
 merit, but it's to be expected.
  
  As inspiring as all the crazy really is, the aesthetic presentation left a bitter taste in my mouth. 
 RRR is a very good looking game, no doubt, but there are some instances that may make you think 
 it's not as refined as it could be. The Wii is supposed to be twice the power of GameCube, but 
 if that's the case, why do Rayman and some of the environment designs look a little N64ish? Most 
 of the mini-games have a very colorful and lively atmosphere, but that probably deals with 70% 
 of the package. Thankfully though, this is nothing that should destroy your potential likeness 
 of the game.
  
  With that gripe out of the way, most will take in RRR as a virtual comedy of sorts. Just look at 
 a screenshot of a Rabbid, really! As stupid as it looks, that's how funny it is! I'm sure Mr. Ancel 
 had a hand in coming with the ideas for all the childish sound effects and music. But you know 
 something, I'm glad it all sounds like something from the imagination of an energetic 6-year-old, 
 or an adult with some serious social issues. Even when it comes to the Rabbids' screaming habit, 
 you would think it gets old after a while, but really, it doesn't. Every time I've heard it, I 
 can't help but at least giggle on the inside. It doesn't end there of course, as some of mini-games 
 have truly 'out there' effects, and at times you'll find it tough to play simply because you're 
 too busy laughing. Much kudos to the RRR team in this department.
  
  Now obviously there will be some that don't agree with this, but even with the impressive number 
 of Rabbid torturing leisurelies available, Rayman doesn't have much after completing Story Mode. 
 Players have the option of replaying any of the story's mini-games, taking on a few unique challenges 
 or going into some with other people. This is fine and all, but it's stuff you're likely to be 
 bored with after a few hacks. For some gamers that have insanely short attention spans, RRR may 
 supplement their thirst more effectively, but for the hardcore, there's other things to spend $49.99 
 on.
  
  Michel Ancel definitely deserves a lot of credit for building (from scratch) one of those most 
 distinct launch titles for any platform in recent history. Rayman Raving Rabbids is a title that 
 requires infinite creativity, and a good deal of willingness to risk company resources. Thankfully 
 Nintendo has what is obviously a fresh and healthy relationship with the largest European publisher, 
 and for Wii-Day that translated into something that takes advantage of the gameplay revolution. 
 It's definitely a game that can appeal to any crowd with its off-the-wall humor and imaginative 
 use of the Wii controllers, but it may prove a more fitting purchase for the younger generation 
 while the rest of us await Metroid, Mario and Smash Bros.
  
  RAYMAN RAVING RABBIDS SUMMARY
  + Intuitive and creative controller implementation
  + The audio 
 is laughable, but that's a blessing
  + Ingenious mini-games (most of the time)
  
  - What's on the screen needs more polish
  - It's over rather quickly, not quite enough supplement
 
  - Some of the games don't mesh in the package
  
  Random Comment:  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaWeapon9
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 15, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  While Twilight Princess may be the game to soak up all of the hype for the sleek new Nintendo Wii 
 . It cant be over stated that the most unique title in the launch line up for Nintendo's new system 
 is undoubtedly Rayman Raving Rabbids . The new game in the critically acclaimed Rayman series of 
 platforming games. Completely redesigned from the ground up for the Wii . Raving Rabbids is arguably 
 the best game in the launch line up that gives new insights into the possibilities of the Wii's 
 motion sensing technology.
  
  Fans of the Rayman series will find a much different beast in Raving Rabbids then what they are 
 used to from the series. While in the past the series has been a traditional platformer. Raving 
 Rabbids is taking the party game approach to gameplay. Which is something that seems to be a more 
 favorable gameplay type for the Wii . However, the team at Ubisoft Montpellie have done a much 
 better job of integrating the mini-games then other games in the Wii's launch line-up. As well, 
 as creating some absolutely crazy mini-games, that go from funny, to crazy, to insane.
  
  The game consists of nothing more then a series of mini-games. Though, this works for the game, 
 and against it. In the sense that it makes the game rather short, clocking in at around five-to-six- 
 hours of play. But with that said, Raving Rabbids is an amazingly enjoyable game that uses great 
 use of the Wii's motion sensing capabilities. The mini-games go from thing like Cow Tossing . Which 
 resides in you swinging the controller around and finally tossing the cow threw the air. To games 
 that make you do things such as shaking the nunchuck and wiimote up and down to simulate a running 
 motion. Its hard to go into the games actual gameplay, without ruining the surprises that the game 
 will give you. However, suffice it to say that Raving Rabbids is probably the best use of the Wii 
 controller at launch and will give players and amazing experience while it lasts.
  
  The story consists of a group of rabbid bunnies that capture Rayman . He is then forced to perform 
 in a series of mini-games and gain the bunnies respect. The Rayman series has always been know 
 for its fun and whimsical stories. Though you wont find that here, you will find the games loveable 
 charm, and newfound insanity in the form of the bunnies that are introduced n Raving Rabbids . 
 They are the driving force of the game, and as well as interesting characters with lots of personality.
 
  
  The presentation in Raving Rabbds is nice. The audio is absolutely great. With a poppy soundtrack 
 and great sound effects threw out the game. The Graphics from a technical standpoint arent very 
 good. There is lots of low-res textures as well as the fact that the game only runs in 30 frames 
 per second. However, with that said the games art style and personality far exceed the games graphical 
 problems and make them easy to overlook.
  
  The only true detriment to Raving Rabbids , is the games value. Though the game does have a decent 
 amount of unlockables, it doesnt make up for the games short length. However, with that said, 
 Rayman Raving Rabbids is without a doubt an enjoyable game, and anyone picking up a Wii should 
 definitely check the game out.
  
  While Raving Rabbids lacks any real depth or length. The few hours that the game lasts is without 
 a doubt filled with enjoyable gameplay, and insane-hilarious moments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMH74767
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 14, 2007 10:59 pm PT
Review:  I'm renting this game, and I'm not impressed by it at all, as a matter of fact, I'd rather play 
 my Wii Sports over this game, I haven't played this game too long, the minigames aren't all that 
 impressive, its just a shame this couldn't have been a regular adventure game, it seems to me that 
 Ubisoft is really dropping the ball for all of the launch games thus far for the Wii, if you're 
 curious about this game like I was, than rent it at your local Hollywood Video, (DON'T RENT @ BLOCKBUSTER!!) , 
 but I definately would not buy this game, not if were even $10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenzo287
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 14, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  WAHHHHHHHHHH! is a phrase you will learn to love in Rayman: Raving Babbids for the Wii. The fourth 
 installment of the series by Micheal Ancel was originally planned to be a platformer but after 
 the realization that these ten thousand gameplay types won't work with Wii they stuck to an impressive 
 mini-game collection. However two platformers based on these events are avalabile through the DS 
 and GBA.
  
  The console version of Raving Rabbids contains several different types of gameplay that usually 
 require the nunchuck attachment. They can range from arcade type shooters (with plungers) to waving 
 your arms in the air rapidly to get the the finish line (and stop the box you're holding from exploding) 
 and many others inbetween (which include plungers.) The graphics are improved from earlier when 
 the game was announced but are still limited. Like mid-GameCube limited. Now don't go blaming the 
 wii, this one's Ubisoft's fault. Although there are some nice effects in the game and they do get 
 the job done. Let's jsut hope the graphics from Ubisoft's games get a lot better from here on out, 
 but I will give it some slack for obviously being rushed out as a launch title.
  
  The audio in the game is great thanks to some zany and interesting tracks including Girls Just 
 Wanna Have Fun and several others. Though not used very much one mini-game makes use of the wiimote 
 speaker for guidance through a maze.
  
  With 70 mini-games and challenges featuring several mini-games at once you can always find something 
 to play. The story mode is mainly used to unlock multiplayer mini-games and then you can unlock 
 artwork and videos in the bonus section on the main menu.
  
  All in all a great game that no Wii owner should pass up espicially since the Wii was built for 
 these types of games. so if you have WarioWare, Monkey Ball, a love of miin-games you won't go 
 wrong with Rayman. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuttybar
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 15, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  The past Rayman games have been solid and highly enjoyable platformers... which makes it quite a 
 surprise when seeing Rayman: Raving Rabbids (RRR for short) as a mini game collection on the Wii. 
 RRR is a collection of 35 different types of mini game, spread across 75 of them. (If that sounds 
 weird, the reason there are more mini games than types of mini games, is because some types are 
 repeated, but more on that later) . The story in RRR is very thin, but as it's a set of mini games, 
 there doesn't need to be a highly developed story, and the one it has works just fine. The story 
 begins with Rayman having a picnic with friendly Globoxes. However, suddenly very large rabbit 
 esque creatures, Rabbids, rise from the ground and kidnap Rayman and his friends. Rayman is then 
 forced into a Gladiator style arena and has to compete in a series of mini games each day for the 
 Rabbids' entertainment. As Rayman you set out to escape the Rabbid's prison and free the Globoxes. 
 I want mention the ending here, but I will say that its both open ended and sets up a sequel well, 
 and at the same time is a satisfying ending. Of course you're not reading this review for the story, 
 but for the gameplay. This is where Rayman delivers, all 75 mini games have a consistently good 
 quality to them, and all of them make good use of the Wii remote and in certain mini games the 
 nunchuk attachment. The mini games include a wide range of motions. Such as the first one where 
 you have to deliver a parcel to a Rabbid before the parcel explodes, you do this by moving the 
 remote and the nunchuk up and down as fast as you can to make Rayman run. This makes you look like 
 a man/woman possessed and serves as a good introduction for what's in store. Not all of the mini 
 games are as demanding though, another one is where you have to use the remote to draw around the 
 outlines of food, so the food becomes real and the hungry Rabbid can get fed. There are many more 
 to mention, but that could take hours and hours to do so. However there are two flaws with the 
 mini games. One is that they are too easy, although some are hard, that number can be counted on 
 one hand. Granted, getting the high scores in the score mode is challenging, but the mini games 
 in the story should have been harder. The other flaw is that some types of mini games are repeated 
 too often. Most notable are the first person shooter mini game and the rhythm mini game. Of which 
 there is one of each in most of the 15 stages in the game. It wouldn't be as bad if they got harder 
 as the game goes on, but they both stay easy. With the one exception of the second to last rhythm 
 minigame, which is insane in its difficulty, and must have taken me nearly an hour and I needed 
 a drink afterwards. In RRR the graphics are nothing worth getting excited about, but there is a 
 lot of charm to be found in the visuals. A lot of the game's good comedy is slapstick and the animation 
 of the Rabbids and the look of them works well in this regard. Other notable moments of charm are 
 when you begin to gain support of the Rabbids and that shows through in your increasingly pimped 
 out prison cell and the Rabbids in the arena beginning to worship Rayman. Where the graphics falter 
 somewhat is that, this looks like a Gamecube game with the textures and the lighting. Granted a 
 decent Gamecube game, but we know the Wii can do better, and more effort could have been made into 
 making this more graphically impressive. The sound in RRR is nothing special. There are some licensed 
 songs e. g. Misirlou by Dick Dale, a. k. a. the surf rock song from Pulp Fiction. But these licensed 
 songs are not all that prevalent (for a good reason, there are not that many of them) and instead 
 when playing most of the mini games you listen to background music that although not bad, is also 
 forgettable. Where the sound in Rayman really delivers though is in the voicework of the Rabbids. 
 Granted they never say a single decipherable word, but their screams are constantly comical and 
 they never get old. In terms of length RRR is little above average. The main game will take 10 
 hours or so to blast though, but there is a mode where you can play the individual games for high 
 scores, and another where you can get some 2-4 player multiplayer action going. If you enjoy playing 
 the mini games for high scores, then you will find a considerable amount of extra value here. The 
 same can't be said for the multiplayer however, although what is there is good, there are not enough 
 mini games that can do multiplayer. Not because the developers were lazy, but because a lot of 
 the games just don't work for multiplayer. RRR is by all means is a great game, good use of the 
 Wii motion and sensor control scheme, charming visuals and characters, good sound, consistently 
 fun mini games, and most of all a very good sense of humour (which is increasingly hard to find 
 in videogames) , the comedic personality of the Rabbids is a key factor of the fun found in RRR. 
 I strongly recommend this game as a purchase.
  
  (RRR requires both the Wii remote and the Nunchuk)
  
  - Nuttybar 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fer212007
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 14, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  wow this game is great i have to say that this game is one of the wii games that you have to buy 
 thi are the reasons the history is not quitegood but the crazy bunnies save the story they are 
 super crazy and gourgeos comedi the minigames have the best control over the wii motion sensitives 
 the graphics are good the normal nothing is to bad nothing is to great but atles they look okey
 
  the music is great the have a great variation a litter short is songs but nothing bad. mayby the 
 game is not perfect in value because sometime repeat the minigames in a hard form. the game is original 
 and funny 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExciteTruck
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 13, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  this was the first game i played on my wii when i got it and I have to say its one of the best 
 yet. I never laughed so much from a single video game so much. Those evil rabbids sure know how 
 to be funny. the graphics for this game are kind of kiddy and cutsy but with all the wild things 
 happening like evil demented bunny rabbits trying to take over the world and all the strange things 
 going on in the minigames you sort of forget about all the cutsy stuff. The sound for this game 
 was pretty amazing. The music is okay but the sound you hear from the bunnies is what makes this 
 game the best. its always hillarious hearing all the bunnies saying DAAAAAAAHHHH!!!! while they 
 are throwing plundgers at you. the part were the game really shows is the mini games. there are 
 over 70 minigames to play and they are all unique. There are dancing ones were you have to time 
 were you hit the wiimote and shooters were you have to shoot bunnies by using the numbchuck and 
 wiimote to aim and you use the B button to shoot the bunnies so they wont hit you with their plundgers. 
 The multiplayer is amzing you and up to 4 freinds can go crazy playing hectic mini games together 
 and it makes all the mini games even better. Also you can design your rayman to look like anything. 
 it can look like a goth, gangster or even a rabbit. the one place were this game falls shorts is 
 the story mode. you just play all mini games and then you basicly finish the game all the way. 
 It could take you about 4 hours or less. this game is best when you have freinds but even if you 
 dont (not trying to be rude) you can still enjoy the game to its fullest on single player trying 
 to go to the highest score you can on all mini games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mario_hoopster
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 12, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Rayman raving rabbids was a very big dissapointment. Let's talk about gameplay. The gameplay was 
 much like a minigame-only mario party. You don't really move around much in the game so basically 
 the only type of gameplay is shacking, twisting, pointing the remote or nunchuck. I personally 
 liked the gameplay with all the interesting ways to play. But the minigames themselves aren't all 
 what thier cracked up to be. The graphics are pretty good for a wii game. Crisp clean 3-d graphics. 
 If you're not a graphics whore then you'll like the graphics. The sound was hilarious! Not only 
 do you here the hilarious screaming and gibberish of the rabbids but it sounds good!. The story 
 line is terrible. You're locked in a cell by the rabbids and each day you must compete in 5 challenges 
 and if you win you get a plunger. In the room you builed a wall of plungers to the window and escape. 
 I would've loved to have an adventure game with the minigames. It would've been so much fun. Overall 
 it was ok. It wasn't worth the 60 bucks. For only about 3 hours of play you should definatly rent 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterlinkx1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 12, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  Very funny and wierd at the same time. It will give you some lagh out loud moment for shore! I loved 
 it and you will love it to! Disco dancing, throwing cows, shearing sheep, hearding animals, plunger 
 battles, milking cows, throwing pigs in a pen, taking worms out of a bunny's  
 and a hole lot more!!! But a little to short for paying 50 bucks for it. It took me about 4 hours 
 to complete! Not the best game i've played but still great! And the bunnys are so funny!!!! But 
 still one of the better games........ Better than super monkey ball banana blits but not as good 
 as Legend Of Zelda Twighlite Prencess!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moti_Biran
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 11, 2007 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Another launch title purchase for me. Another game that demonstrates the power of the wiimote in 
 a fabulous way. The addition of a multiplayer is great, that way you can flail your wiimote and 
 nunchak with a friend at your side, the both of you aiming at your precious 42 LCD screen ;) .
 
  
  I have two words for you about this game  Bunny Hunt! This is the super feature of this game, 
 and Ubisoft should expand this into a full, hilarious game! The entire game is very funny but the 
 bunny hunt part is a pure slapstick comedy coming alive from the depth of a console machine!
  
  The one thing that really bothered me about the game was that in order to compare your abilities 
 at playing the game with other players you have to copy a certain code to get online on the Rayman 
 site to know how you are doing compared to others players, but I guess this is because the game 
 is a first generation game for the Wii, and future game will have a better implementation of the 
 Wii's online capabilities.
  
  BRING ON THE BUNNY HUNT GAME, UBISOFT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rlink0
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 9, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Well, let's just say this is a very interesting game. In the storyline, you are captured by bunnies, 
 and put in a jail. each day, you have to go to a gladiator type of arena, and complete three or 
 four mini games, and then do another final one, which gives you a magic plunger. after doing tons 
 of mini games, you finally get out.
  
  Gameplay- Really fun party and family game. the controls are simple, and it gives a good enough 
 explanation for what happens next.
  
  Graphics- I suppose average graphics for the wii, but still, the bunnies give half of the laughs 
 with their looks and low intellectuality.
  
  Sound- Great. the only bad part is when you have to do the pig back to mom pig game, since the 
 wii remote sound quality is not the greatest. they also made the bunnies' screams funny, which 
 is great.
  
  Value- this game is worth more than the price. It probably takes forever to beat score mode unless 
 you are amazingly great at the game. Story mode isn't all that long though.
  
  All in all, this game is great. buy it if you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scurran007
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 9, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  This game is very funny... I saw the previews and the commercials and was not very taken to buy 
 the game initially
  I thought the Bunnies looked ugly and ugly bunnies chasing a character with floating hands and 
 feet was not my style. I was wrong. The Bunnies are so Tanted, so Odd that they make the whole 
 game fun! My kids love the Dancing Mini-Games.. and they are a lot better at them then their old 
 man.
  Still I excel in the games that require you to run fast for pump hard and fast.. the kids tire too 
 easy. This game is great for group play!
  I will say that there is not much of a game plot here... you are captured by Bunnies, thrown into 
 an arena and forced to play games. Each time you win a game, it seems like the Bunny crowd gets 
 a little more blood thursty (It could be my imagination, but I think a few of them have sticks 
 of TNT, I don't know if they'll be mad enough to lob them at me... I'll just have to find out.) 
 The games are short and fun, but at times can be difficult with the controller., such as closing 
 the bathroom stalls on the Bunnies- I shake the controller, but there is a delay in it registering 
 on the screeen... so the Bunnies end up pelting me with Plungers.
  
  My Advise is to buy this game.. it is definately one for the Wii Collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ragingoptimistu
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 9, 2007 12:16 am PT
Review:  This mini game collection succeeds for two reasons. First, the wii controls elevate actions that 
 have been done to death in other games feel fresh and new. You've probably seen many of these mini-games 
 before, but they feel entirely different due to the motion controls. Secondly, the game has an 
 incredible sense of style. The rabbids are hilarious, and their antics simply don't get old. The 
 bizarre activites present throughout the game benefit greatly from the fact that players have never 
 hammer-thrown a cow, shot bunnies with plungers, or hit a rabbit with a shovel. The presentation, 
 style and humor will keep you coming back.
  
  The single player experience is fun, but this game rocks at multiplayer. It has been a hit with 
 friends and rivals Wii Sports for the title of best game to start new gamers out on for the Wii.
 
  
  The graphics aren't technically amazing, but the artistic skill is obvious. There are several memorable 
 characters in this game, and their unique look and wonderful motion helps a lot. The sound is some 
 of the funniest I've ever heard in a game. The screaming rabbids make me laugh almost every time, 
 and the music is solid. This game is highly recommended for any open minded Wii owner with friends 
 to play it with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: v3n0m111
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 8, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Man, I sure loved this game, fairly short story mode but the games are priceless and can not be 
 matched by any other game. its like Mario Party, but funner. This game makes me laugh so much and 
 i just cant stop playing it. Some of the games are a little glitchy but overall it is a great game. 
 I would definately reccommend it to anyone who likes Minigames. Great variety and very original 
 ideas. In my opinion this is the best game yet for the Wii and will be hard to match the fun. Ubisoft 
 did an amazing job on this game and it is suitable and fun for all age groups, funy hair, cool 
 suits, awesome shoes and tons of screaming bunnies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxshenron
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 7, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Although the Wii did have a handful of solid launch titles, Rayman Raving Rabbids has to be the 
 best. One of the greatest things about the game is the comedy. It is truely funny from the opening 
 where a rabbid runs across the screen screaming to the Splinter Cell bunnies. There are around 
 80 minigames here and just about all of them are fun (the one exception in my opinion is bunnies 
 cant close doors) . Although there are multiplayer options, playing it single player is just as 
 fun. The main point of this game is hurting rabbids. So if you like burning, shooting, throwing, 
 shocking or bowling funny looking bunnies, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 7, 2007 11:44 pm PT
Review:  When Rayman 4 was announced, I was truely excited. I have enjoyed all the Rayman adventures to 
 date and wanted to see how Rayman's platform greatness would play on the Wii. That game became 
 Rayman Raving Rabbids. Needless to say I was a bit disappointed with the outcome because I loved 
 the Rayman platformers games so much. After I got over the that I was able to see this entry in 
 the series for what it is... a party game. There have been countless party/four player games on 
 other systems and there will be countless more for Nintendo Wii. Rayman is just weird enough to 
 work. The Rabbids take center stage, and you play as Rayman in a series on minigames. The Wii-mote 
 contolling of this game is near flawless. Anyone who says otherwise is simply uncoordinated and 
 you will find yourself playing for hours with your buddies. I have no qualms with the game play... the 
 graphics are a different story. Rayman is ugly! Not ugly by PS3 or 360 standards, but ugly by GC 
 and XBOX standards. Ubisoft could have really taken another month or two simply cleaning the graphics 
 up, but that doesn't affect the gameplay at all. Most people will already know most of the music, 
 as most of it is rabbidfied licensed tunes. The music is good, funny and fits the game. There is 
 just not enough of it. The music would have been twice as good had the game had twice as much music 
 as it does. Overall, you can't really go wrong with Rayman. I don't think your grandma is going 
 to play it with you but your buddies will and that will be hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digijim2000
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. Its fun, short and simple. The Wii's controls couldnt come in more use, it 
 is just great. Its not a usual Rayman with no Adventure mode and all mini games basically. Its 
 fun and will keep you occupied for a few days. But for it to be better it should be alot longer. 
 Ive had the game for about 9 hours and only played about 3 1/2 hours and im 41% done with the game, 
 which i find to be kind of redilous for $50. I usually wait to finish games before i review them 
 but this one seems to be the same over and over. I love the dance off game and think its great 
 when you have some friends and family over. The controls are intuative and fun, graphics seem pretty 
 good ( for the wii) and if you are bored and want something to do for the day, go out and rent 
 it, if you like and think you will use it alot palying with other people then go ahead and buy 
 it. But this is a game i would rent first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firehawk110
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 7, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  It's especially good when you play multiplayer, like on the bunny hunt and the workout minigames. 
 Rayman Raving Rabbids is one of the better games on the wii. Next to zelda, out of all the wii 
 games i've played, raymans the best one. Even though they repeat the minigames a bit too much it's 
 still a fun game right up there with mario party. I believe that this game is better than super 
 monkey ball: banana blitz. If you're in the mood for a party game, then don't waste time on monkey 
 ball's crappy 50 minigames. Get rayman instead. You won't regret it.
  
  
  Score: 8.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZachX5000
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 6, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't what Rayman is all about. Rayman is a great paltformer. This is a bunch of mini 
 games. Most them are pretty bad.
  
  The game starts with Rayman at a picknick with Globloxes, till the bunnies take them away. So that 
 ends the second GC scene. You are then thrown into what looks like a Rome-Style ring, where the 
 bunnies are all mad at you. This part happens quite a lot, and the fact that most of the bunnies 
 there, are 2-D, and look really bad. The graphics in 3-D though, is something you would expect 
 from any Rayman game, on the Wii, its a little more clearer then its PS2 counter-part. So, each 
 day (You don't even know why they're doing this to you) , you do four mini-games and a Boss Game. 
 To get to the Boss Game, you most beat 3 normal games.
  
  The mini-games, some are really fun. They get you moving off the couch to do what you do. Too bad 
 most of the games are just so frustrating and difficult to pull off in the time limit you have. 
 Plus, the mini-games, they have a second part, so part to of a game, will be harder version of 
 what you already did. A lot of the mini-games do that to you. Boss Battles are pretty fun. You 
 shoot the bunnies in a first person style were the game walks for you through the level. Each Boss 
 Battle is the same way, if you know where the bunnies attack, a perfect score is all too easy.
 
  
  The fact that this is the story mode, just kills me. The game can be beaten in a day. Unlockables 
 in include costumes and music, yay dress Rayman. This is when you beat a days worth of mini-games
 
  
  But a lot of the music in the game, you've probably heard too. Sound is great too, bunnies are 
 just funny little guys. You never hear Rayman talk at all, nothing, he barely makes a sound. If 
 you were looking for Rayman, this isn't even close to what you thought it was. its just a bunch 
 of hard controlling, frustrating mini-games. Some are great, but its not enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prattfactor
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 3, 2007 9:52 pm PT
Review:  What Can i say exept [ I LOVE THE RABBIDS ! ]
  This games main character is supposed to be RayMan But Its realy the Babbids. They are Hilarious!
 
  The mini-Games a very Fun and really Grow on you... There are over 70 Mini-games.. that Sounds like 
 a good thing but i only have one problom... Alot of the games Are like Part two's or part three's 
 of older games... And there is always a Dance like mini game at the far right of the arina you are 
 always placed in.... The story line is kind of confuseing... The rabbids just capute Rayman for no 
 reason and make him compeate in Challenges..
  But this game is very, very fun and is a great multiplayer...
  I also loved the fact that you 
 could give rayman a new look..
  I give Rayman Raving Rabbids a 8.1 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EpsilonZX
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about this gameOther than the fact that it is crazy!!! Ill start off with the 
 story. Rayman was having a picnic with the baby Globoxes, until the Rabbids came and captured all 
 the Babies and Rayman. Now they have him do random tasks to entertain themselves. You start off 
 in a drab cell where it looks like prison, then you upgrade your cell 2 more times to make it look 
 like a suite. In between those upgrades, you have to go through your days work, or in other words, 
 they throw you into an arena and have you do at least 3 out of the 4 minigames to get to the final 
 minigame of the day. If you complete all of the 4 minigames, before the final one, you get either 
 a new costume or new music, but dont worry if you forgot one. You can go sit on the toilet in 
 your cell and play the ones you missed. Now the Rabbids, they go from wanting to torture you to 
 starting to like you then finally they start hailing you. I wont spoil anything else about the 
 story. Now the minigames range from easy to hard, and weird to crazy to just plain creepy. Most 
 of them will have you laugh until you wet yourself (my bro almost did) . When you do a minigame 
 in Story you unlock it in Score. Score is just where you and your friends/family can play minigames, 
 either together or separate, to get points that will unlock extras that are located in the bonus 
 section of the main menu. Well that is all Ill say about this game mostly because I said everything 
 about it. I think this is one of the best launch games (next to Zelda and DBZ) . So if you dont 
 have this game, get it!!! If you have it, then go play it, now!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _TheJoker_
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  Ok, this is my first review ever so be good.
  Rayman Raving Rabbids is a very good game, but kinda short.
  The game splits in 15 days, each 
 day you must complete several challenges (minigames) in order to get out of the arena alive. You 
 have 4 challenges per day, and you have to complete 3 of them to play the final minigame of the 
 day (the fifth one) , which is a FPS or a racing minigame, depends on the day. If you complete all 
 of them before going into the last battle, you unlock a new tune or a new costume for the game.
 
  The minigames make good use of the wiimote/nunchuck functions, but you may find yourself doing 
 the same thing you did last day (yes I'm looking to you 'bunnies can't dance' minigame) .
  You will do a lot of different things with you wiimote, from milking a cow to hit a bunny with 
 a hammer, move the screen to move a ball inside the brains of the bunnies, aiming like in a FPS 
 game, playing races or move a kinda-like-a-flying-dinosaur creature and a lot more!
  The bad side of the controls is that you may have a rough time trying to complete a minigame if 
 you're out of form. Do some sport, and everything should be fine.
  The graphics are fine, they look like the GC (sometimes like PS2) but believe me, you won't give 
 too much importance to them.
  The sound is not mind blowing, but fits very well in this kind of game.
  Overall, it's a fun 
 game, you will laugh sometimes just by seen how crazy the bunnies are, and will sometimes insult 
 the TV because of the controls in some of the games (like the one you have to throw the cow) .
 
  
  One thing I didn't like about the game is ///SPOILER\\\ the ending, you get the same sad ending 
 whether you finished the game with an 88% or a 100%. They should have changed that... anyway... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umd1998
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  Pros: Playable in short or long doses, hilarious humor, fun challenges, good variety, replayability
 
  
  Cons: Geared more for kids than adults; the only way to save is autosave when you return to your 
 prison cell after completing a task
  
  From the very first screeching bunny at the title screen, Rayman Raving Rabbids for the Nintendo 
 Wii establishes itself as a zany collection of replayable minigames -- showcasing just how fun 
 the console's unique motion-sensing controllers can be.
  
  The premise: Evil, screaming bunnies called Rabbids capture longtime limbless Ubisoft video game 
 hero Rayman and force him to complete tasks for their amusement in a gladiator arena.
  
  The game makes great use of the Wii's wireless controllers - you earn points by shaking the nunchuk 
 to slap Rabbids back into their outhouses, swing and toss a cow like an Olympic hammer thrower 
 or drum your controllers in time with dancing Rabbids. The uses are seemingly endless. It's a whole 
 bunch of minigames within an adventure game.
  
  In the arena, you must complete 3 of 4 tasks behind doors to unlock a big task, and you get new 
 outfits and music along the way that you can mess with while you're in your prison cell when you're 
 not in the arena.
  
  Some of the big tasks are fun rail shooters, in the vein of Time Crisis.
  
  Unlocking minigames 
 in Story Mode allows them to be played in Score Mode - you can revisit your favorite minigames 
 over and over, as well as compete with another person for the best score in some games.
  
  Overall, a great game, especially for the Wii! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bededog
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 2, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Hi there, and welcome to another one of my reviews. This time I am reviewing Rayman Raving Rabbids 
 for the Nintendo Wii. Rayman Raving Rabbids starts off with a cutscene of Rayman getting captured 
 by the evil Rabbids. The Rabbids are evil rabbits. The Rabbids are very funny and will make you 
 laugh through out the entire game. After Rayman gets kidnapped you will find yourself in a lonely 
 cell. The cell has no carpet, leaky roof, and other not so nice things. As you progress through 
 the story you will gain popularity with the Rabbids and you will get nicer stuff in your cell. 
 Each day more must do a test. Each test is made up of five minigames, but you only need to do four. 
 Three of the minigames are random minigames, while the fourth is always a dancing minigame. Once 
 you have beaten three or more of the minigames you will unlock the boss minigame. The boss minigames 
 are usually a railed FPS shooter. These work very well and are a blast to play.
  
  The minigames in Rayman are very fun to play and work quite nicely with the Wiimote. Most last 
 for around 15 or so seconds, but some can last for over 3 minutes. The games have a wide verity 
 of themes and gameplay. My personally favorites are the dancing and the FPS minigames. There are 
 about 70 minigames in all. But they sort of cheat you by reusing minigames and making them harder 
 and calling them part 2. Once you have beaten the single player mode you can play the score mode. 
 In this mode you will play the minigames you have unlocked in story mode for a high score. By doing 
 this you can unlock extras such as developer artwork and videos. While this will increase the overall 
 play time it doesnt really add much. Most of the unlockables can be found on the internet already. 
 And there really isnt a point in trying to unlock them.
  
  Rayman is an excellent party game. You can play with up to four people. You can play simultaneous 
 or take turns if you dont have enough Wiimotes. The minigames arent only fun to play, but to 
 watch also. So it is never boring playing the games with friends. You can also play Co-op with 
 another player which is fun. The only bad thing about Rayman is that it is somewhat short. You 
 can beat the single player mode in a couple of hours. And there isnt much to keep you to come 
 back after that. There are also a few control problems with some of the minigames. For example, 
 in one minigame you must close doors on the Rabbids. But for some reason sometimes the door just 
 wont close. While these few controls are annoying, they are few and far in between and dont affect 
 the overall game experience. Overall Rayman Raving Rabbids is a great party game. What it lacks 
 in depth and length it makes up for with humor and great multiplayer. If you are looking for a 
 party game and cant wait for Wario Ware, then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 2, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Out of all the mini game games on Wii already, this is by far the best I have played 
 so far. The only unfortunate thing is that there is so little to the game. There are tons of mini 
 games here though, 70 in fact. The thing that is bothersome though is that there really is no story 
 other than crazy bunnies invading the planet and making Rayman perform some outrageous tasks.
 
  The mini games themselves though are pretty good. I am glad that each one doesn't seem to rehash 
 the same concept, a problem that is kind of apparent in most other mini game games. You will have 
 to do crazy things like compete in a race by moving the Wiimote and nunchuk up and down, dance 
 by moving the controllers to the beat of the songs, and even capture and return a few pigs. Most 
 of the minigames are creative and fun enough to make this game worthwhile, and the developers did 
 a remarkable job making the mini games appealing.... even if a few of them are kind of dull and 
 pointless. Some of the customizable things in the game though like songs and costumes are very 
 pointless though, considering there isn't any real reason to have them other than for show. Really, 
 the layout of the game is just mini games and more mini games. There isn't anything wrong with 
 that, but it definitely is not what you may expect for a Rayman game.
  
  Graphics: The artistic factor of this game is pretty good, especially the rabbids which show a 
 lot of humorous personality. However, Raving Rabbids looks like your average Gamecube game visually. 
 There isn't anything wrong with the visuals, but nothing about them will get you excited either. 
 The amount of rabbids on the screen at once is kind of impressive, but the quality of the visuals 
 seems to decrease as soon as you do see so many at once. Also, you tend to see the same nearly 
 identical cutscenes throughout most of the game... which is kind of disappointing.
  
  Sound: Raving Rabbids has an interesting blend of actual music recorded by artists and new music 
 implimented just for the game. Some of the rhythmic mini games are fun to listen to, and some of 
 course are not at all. However, the screaming rabbids and other interesting sound effects save 
 this game from mediocrity in terms of sound.
  
  Value: The story mode is kind of a Go at your own pace kind of thing.... chances are you won't 
 want to play through all of the mini games at once, but it is possible. An extra mode allows you 
 to replay the mini games, which is fun if you liked a lot of them... but chances are some are either 
 too difficult or dull to make you want to come back and try them again. Luckily, there is a multiplayer 
 mode too though.... making this a great party game. This would be a great game to return to just 
 for fun a few months down the road, but immediately after beating the game chances are there won't 
 be many mini games that you want to try again, especially since the leaderboards for your score 
 are only found on the game's website and not inside the game itself... something that is surprisingly 
 lackluster.
  
  Overall, I would definitely recommend this if you are looking for a party game, but you would be 
 better off giving this a rental rather than throwing $50 at the cashier for a game that you most 
 likely won't be playing more than a few days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendomania
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 2, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  We join Rayman sitting at a picnic with his friend globoxes. Suddenly though the globoxes are pulled 
 underground and replaced with bunnies! What happens next... your captured. You play as Rayman locked 
 in a strange place where the rabbids force you to compete in pointless mini-games. If you think 
 of this as a Wario Ware game then you are mistaken. Some of these mini-games take seconds but there 
 are some that take a couple minutes. Multi-player keeps this game alive at parties and the comedy 
 will have you crying. The only problem with multi-player is the waiting. Most of the games you 
 take turns instead of all going at once, making it easier to get distracted to go do something 
 else. Single player in Rayman makes you compete in four mini-games, then face a giant mini-game. 
 As much fun as that sounds, I was stuck on a mini-game for a very long time since it wont let you 
 save until you have beaten all five of the games. Another problem is you can't play the mini-games 
 in multi-player until you beat them in single player. Still this game is priceless, fun, and funny. 
 I would recomend it to anyone who hangs with friends a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thejoe8pizza
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 1, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  A surpisingly good game for all ages anyone can enjoy it. The first day i got the my brother got 
 the WII the whole famioly played it. It was kinda funny if u like random crazy stuff. There are 
 many mini so you will not be getting boed any time soon. It does give u a good workout which can 
 be a good and bad thing your gone need a lot of energy. Anyway it's a funny game that anyone no 
 matter who u are can pick up and just start playing which is really wat nintendo was aiming for 
 with the WII so they got it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kidnick01
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 1, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome if you are wanting a game to play with a group of people that isn't Wii Sports. 
 It has games for all ages and abilities, so everybody can play. If you are wanting a game with 
 a deep story or any bit of substance, then this game isn't for you. With about 70 mini games, this 
 game has replay value whether by yourself or with a group of people. With Rabbids all over the 
 place, who won't love this game? Of the launch titles, this is the best game to spend money on 
 (since you get Wii Sports for free with the console) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids is an addicting party game for friends, family, or even playing solo. It 
 is probably one of the best party games I have played. It has great mini-games, gameplay, and has 
 positive use of the Wiimote and Nunchuck. This game didn't have much of a story to it. Rayman is 
 having a picnic with a bunch of baby Globoxs. He and the babies are captured by little bunnies 
 known as rabbids. You are thrown into a coliseum and have to play through a lot of mini-games to 
 escape. There is absolutley no missions except for beating 3 of the 4 mini-games each trip to the 
 coliseum. You will beat each mini-game then complete a final game which alters after each trip. 
 It could be a shooting game or a hog racing game. The regular mini-games however, are different 
 most of the time. There could be the same mini-game, but just harder or set up differently. Each 
 trip to the coliseum, there will always be one mini-game where you are dancing, but the music changes. 
 I have to say the mini-games in this game are quite addicting and well thought out.
  
  The use of the Wiimote and Nunchuck are the best I have seen in any Wii game so far. The movements 
 aren't the same in the majority of the mini-games. In a running game, you will be pumping the Wiimote 
 and Nunchuck up and down one after the other. If you are grabbing something and pulling on it you 
 would aim at it, grab with the A button, and yank with the selected controller. I think the use 
 of the Wiimote is proficient.
  
  While you aren't fighting your way out of the prison, you will be in locked in your cell and you 
 can do multiple things there. Like change your wardrobe or choose a new music track. You will also 
 be able to play mini-games again if you missed one that was available. It isn't a big part of the 
 game, but there if you need it.
  
  This game was enjoyable, but it had some things that really grinded my gears. One major thing is 
 that the game is so repetitive and has barely any twists or turns. The story changes only at the 
 end. The only main things that change are your jail cell and your entrances and crowd reactions 
 in the stadium. Other than those tiny details, it is really repetitive. Another thing that I find 
 irretating is the fact that this has barely anything to do with Rayman. It has no real story and 
 has only a bit of Rayman references. It is irretating because this is what a Rayman fan would be 
 looking for in a game like this. This game has ups as well as downs, but it is still a competent 
 game. It is a great game for the Wii and an excellent party game. I would have to say that Rayman 
 addicts/fans wouldn't find this game to be similar to other Rayman games. I would say it is worth 
 a shot for Rayman fans and I would recomment it to any fan of party games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathnote21
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 31, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids IS the best party game out for the Wii. Is definitely better than Wii sports. 
 Game Play: Game Play is the best this game has to offer. With over 70 mini games available all 
 using the Wii controller, is no doubt this game is fun. The mini games are the weirdest things 
 Ive seen since the psp game wtf? Milking cows, riding on hogs, and dancing with bunnies is the 
 most fun you can have with a party game. Graphics: Even tough the graphics are not better than 
 the ps3 and the 360, is really good for the Wii. The developers must have had fun making the rabbids 
 cause they look funny. Sound: With the Robots launching rockets and the so loving Rabbids screaming 
 this has perfect sounds for the style of the game.
  
  I suggest rent it first, but if your looking for great multiplayer fun with friends, this should 
 be at the top of your list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samakar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  As a single player game, it's very fun the first time through! But as you wind down to the end 
 of the game, and complete some of the tougher challenges, and finally get out of the main cell 
 in which you are in, the game loses its value. Sure, you have all of these great mini-games that 
 are very fun! But..... without extra content, the game becomes dry at the end.
  
  Now, from first-hand experience, the multi-player is where it's at. The game can really get everyone 
 laughing and having a great time, going through score mode and seeing who can best one another 
 at milking a cow, or launching a bunny, super-man style, hahaha.
  
  All in all, if your family is willing to put in the time, this is a GREAT game to get the whole 
 family in on. Other then that, I'd rent the game at best and have fun with it.
  
  -Samakar
  Long live Xen of Onslaught! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaysonguy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 31, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids does the best job of any title that's not included with the Wii at showing 
 off just how great the Wii is.
  This game is a collection of mini games so if you're looking for ONLY a racing game keep looking 
 (although there's racing in this game) and if you're looking for ONLY a first person shooter keep 
 looking (even though there's a FPS in this game that's got great controls) and if you're looking 
 for a poodle grooming sim then would you be willing to settle for a sheep shearing sim? Because 
 that's in here too.
  
  This is the best launch title made for the Wii.
  The story is thin but gets the job done.
  You're Rayman (named that because your parents didn't 
 like you obviously) You're out with your little animal friends when the Rabbids come and capture 
 all of you. Your mission (or missions) is to participate in the various games of agility, strength, 
 stamina, intelligence, etc.... in order to win plungers to help you escape.
  
  Now a quick moment to speak about the Rabbids.
  They are the best new character (s) in video games 
 this year.
  I know we had that guy on the 360 in Gears Of War, that Mr. Man guy but he's just a guy.
  The 
 Rabbids are nuts, they're funny and crazy and for only able to voice their thoughts by screaming 
 and grunting they do a wonderful job of getting the point across. You can't help but love these 
 guys.
  
  Back to the game itself.
  It's so addictive that just when you put it down you'll be thinking about the next event and pick 
 it up again. It's got that well let me just see what the next event is quality.
  
  The games are a little bit of everything, it's like you taped a dog to a cat and then threw it 
 in a salad bar, there's pieces everywhere.
  
  There's events where you run by moving the Wiimote as the right foot and the nunchuck as the left 
 then how fast you raise them up and down is how fast Rayman runs. There's racing games that has 
 you riding on some huge beast and you whip the Wiimote to make him run faster, there's FPS missions 
 that control perfectly (sure it's on rails but it's still the best shooter on the Wii so far lol) , 
 there's also musical games where you have to keep the beat of Rabbids coming down the dance floor 
 in time with the music.
  That's just the tip of the iceberg, there's over 70 games in all that will have you doing everything 
 with the Wiimote except having you taste it.
  
  No other game will showcase the Wiimote and nunchuck as well, the only other title that may is 
 Wario but people have to wait for Wario to be released and even when it is released Rayman will 
 still be worth picking up.
  
  This is a must have title, this is the kind of title that makes people believers in the Wii and 
 all of it's possibilities. No respectful Wii owner should omit this from their library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenneil4
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 31, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  Raving Rabbids is a very fun game to play with a roomful of friends. Unfortunately, you have to 
 unlock the minigames in story mode to play them in multiplayer mode. This make you have to play 
 through a lousy story which has little effect on the actual gameplay. The minigames in the story 
 mode are recycled and getting boring easily. The only consolation is the boss battle after every 
 3 or 4 minigames. These boss battles have you racing warthogs or shooting down bunnies in a time 
 crisis- rail gun way. These battles are the best moments of the game. The graphics aren't very 
 advanced but fit the wacky feel nicely. The sound is sorta lame due to the repeated playing of 
 yesteryear's top hits. Also, it gets annoying to listen to bunnies screaming over and over again. 
 This game should only be bought if you have a lot of friends and you have the patience to play 
 the story mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ganandorf1000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 30, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids is a series of mini games after the main character, Rayman, gets captured 
 by evil rabbits while he is on a picnic. He is throne in jail and must go through a series of tests 
 including dancing, running, and throwing plungers.
  
  Good: the graphics are fantastic and eye catchy. The sound is really funny and makes you laugh. 
 The gameplay is great no matter what test you are doing. The developers did a fantastic and clever 
 job on including the Wii Remote and the Nunchuck Controller. Even if you lose it's still a fun 
 game and highly addictive.
  
  Bad: Even if you are on a fun yet hard test in the game, you can get frustrated . It's somewhat 
 of a rip-off of the Mario Party series.
  
  Overall the game is a must buy for anybody who wants a game to pass by time or to just have fun. 
 On the other hand if you are a person who wants a long, challenging game with a bigger plot or 
 more action, I recemmend renting it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melefty
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 30, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  -Gameplay- This game makes wonderful use of the Wii-mote and the nunchuk. you can aim at the screen 
 for (plundger) shooting games, you can tilt wiimote for brian mazes, and frefalling, you can filck 
 the nunchuk for colbbering bunnies over the head in a bunny version of wack-a-mole, you can use 
 both the wii-mote, and the nunchuk like drumbsticks for dancing games, among tons of other cool 
 ways to use the controller to do tons of crazy thing for interesting mini-games.
  -Graphics- Nothing amazing here, its probably about equal to last gen's Xbox. but then again, this 
 is wii, you dont play it for the graphics anyway
  -Sound- Well the music varrys from mini-game to mini-game, some good, some are not-so-good, but 
 the number one coolest thing about the sound would be the noises the bunnies make. that single 
 sound is hilarious, and makes me want to run around the house throwing my arms above my head screaming 
 AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH 
  -Value- its not worth it if you dont have friends to play with, this isnt what youd call a single 
 player game........
  
  This is a great multi-player game, that makes great use of the wiis motion sensing abilities. but 
 again. only get it if you have friends to play with 
::::::

::::::
UserName: interpolred
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 30, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids takes the Rayman series in a different direction from previous installments. 
 Unlike the past games, this is not a platformer of any sort. This Rayman game is a collection of 
 mini-games, all of which are played using the Wii remote's motion-sensing technology.
  
  Story mode is pretty linear and should take you no more than five hours to get through. After starting 
 Story mode, a cutscene shows Rayman enjoying a picnic with his Globox buddies. Shortly after, Rayman 
 and the Globoxes are kidnapped by the Raving Rabbids, a group of eerily charming bunnies. What 
 makes Story mode so linear is that it is no more than a series of mini-games. Each day, you are 
 placed in an arena that seems suitable for Roman gladiators. You will see four small doors and 
 one large door. Each small door contains a mini-game, and you are to complete three of the four 
 to open the big door and gain access to the main challenge, either a first-person rail shooter 
 or a race. Getting through the various challenges unlocks more mini-games for Score mode, which 
 can be played alone or with friends and unlocks special bonuses such as videos and concept art.
 
  
  Story mode serves you with the challenge of unlocking all the mini-games, but that's about it. 
 The Score mode is what really shines, as you can play your favorite mini-games with your friends. 
 Keep in mind that not all the mini-games are played simultaneously between players. You will alternate 
 with the other players for some of these, but despite this, there is still a lot of fun to be had. 
 Just learning how each mini-game plays can be a lot of fun, and watching other players screw up 
 can bring some pretty humorous results.
  
  There are many different types of mini-games to play. There is a precision game where you must 
 draw over different food items; there's one where you must milk a cow by making movements similar 
 to actually milking a cow (made possible via the Wii Remote and Nunchuk) ; and there are even a 
 few rythm-based mini-games where you must use the controllers as drumsticks and keep to the beat 
 of the music.
  
  The graphics in Rayman Raving Rabbids are decent. They are not very advanced, but they work well 
 for the subject matter. This is a very colorful game, and seeing the bright environments and the 
 funny Rabbids dancing and acting all Rabbid-ish is very fun.
  
  The sound in the game varies, but succeeds. Aside from the original, and often quirky, music you'll 
 hear, there are also a few licensed tracks. These are altered versions of songs like Miserlou, 
 Girls Just Wanna Have Fun, and La Bamba. It is definitely a nice touch to hear real songs in a 
 game like this. The sounds you'll hear throughout the game are a bit strange. You'll hear bubble 
 sounds, rubbery sounds, and pretty much an onslaught of off-the-top sounds that really add to this 
 game's unorthodox and humorous feel. The Rabbids will sing and yell, and listening to them is as 
 entertaining as watching them.
  
  Rayman Raving Rabbids is a departure from the series, and succeeds. This title is filled with fun 
 mini-games and a lot of humor. If you're looking for something that will make you laugh and put 
 the Wii Remote to good use, Rayman Raving Rabbids may just be what you need. Although it is set 
 to be released for other consoles (and is also currently available for the PS2) , it's hard to imagine 
 that it is as much fun using a standard controller. If you want a good collection of mini-games, 
 do not hesitate to give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaadam
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 30, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  From watching the previews to hearing people talking about it I knew I was probably going to like 
 this game. But I didn't realize that it would be this damn addictive. The mini games are simple 
 in theory but challenging in their own right, especially when your not used to the wii remote.
 
  
  The story mode could use a bit more story within it, but its a fun way to unlock all the games 
 that are hidden within the game. The suits you can unlock make for some interesting combinations 
 and add some flair to your characters while playing against friends.
  
  Overall I really enjoy this game and don't regret owning it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swrdof1000trths
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 30, 2006 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Okay so for some reason you clicked on my review. Why'd you click on my review, now I have to write 
 one. Gawl! Whateverrr here we go. I have been trying to find out what is fueling those rabbid rabbits 
 to be so insane and I've come up with this. They are insane. That's all it is to it. Ubisoft has 
 created the most vile and hillarious minigame collection ever. Most of the games involve you killing 
 rabbids. Others involve you just injuring them, or cleaning out their teeth. It's a badass game. 
 I just can't get enough of the screaming rabbid bunnies. There's over 70 minigames which I think 
 is enough, but most of them are just part twos and some are even series. A couple games are not 
 that great too. But for the most part the games are fun and hillarious. They start to get hard 
 too.
  There is multiplayer and axoew mode which has challenges and other stuff, but most of the multiplayer 
 makes you take turns which is fine, but they probably should have made some multiplayer minigames.
 
  One thing I like is how the bunnies slowly start to change their attitude toward you in storymode. 
 In no time your jail cell is a big shot house. In conclusion (essay form fool) RRR is a lotta fun 
 but I think WWSM might still be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SfGiants11
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  I love the Mario Party games, so I thought this game would be a natural fit for me. I was wrong. 
 The entire game is nothing more than a group of minigames that you play one after the other, but 
 they are all so boring that I can't make it through three games at a time (a total of about 2 minutes) 
 without shutting off the Wii. There are about 70 minigames total, but there may as well be ten, 
 because they are all based on the same handfull of motions with the Wii remote. The Mario Party 
 series succeeds not only because of the clever batch of minigames it offers, but because it manages 
 to also include a nice amount of depth with the gameboards, other characters, etc. Rayman Raving 
 Rabids has absolutely no depth at all, and that is no exhaggeration. Graphically, this game passes, 
 but does nothing special. The parts of the game where Rayman is running around the colliseum inbetween 
 minigames is pretty bad though, since the Rabids in the stands look like something from the Nintendo 
 64. Seriously, they look like cardboard cutouts. The Rabids themselves are interesting and funny 
 looking, but I never found myself laughing out loud like some reviewers would lead you to believe. 
 Overall the graphics look okay, but it doesn't seem like the developers spent much time on them. 
 The same can be said for the music. Passable, but nothing special. I'd like to find something good 
 about this game other than the Rabids, but I honestly can't. My time spent playing the game pretty 
 much involved me sitting in front of the TV, swinging my arms around, thinking This is stupid! 
 I feel like an idiot, and I'm not even having fun doing it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teufelherz
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 29, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids is a game that is so much fun to play. Its a very creative way to showcase 
 the use of the Wii remote and nunchuk. It is also a game that anyone can enjoy and it is very easy 
 to pick up. It actually concentrates a lot more on coordination. The controls feel just right as 
 they are very responsive. The mini games are a lot of fun to play, but you might feel them a little 
 repetitious after a while, since there are several that require you to make the same motions you 
 have done in previous games. Rayman Raving Rabbids graphics are really nice. The rabbids have these 
 facial emotions which look really cool and make you smile. If you are looking for a game that is 
 really easy to get into and lots of fun to play, this is the one to get for your Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cfreeleywow
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 28, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Very Fun! The remote is used for many... unique games, the goal of each minigame is usually 
 very pointless, which makes it fun in a humorous way. Like making a blinded bunny hit cactus and 
 campfires, or shutting bathroom doors rabbids try to open. The gameplay is extremely fun and so 
 is the setting.
  
  Graphics: Average Wii game, nothing wrong, nothing great. I don't really care about graphics, except 
 for glitches.
  
  Sound: I love the sound of the screams, gibberish and gurgles of the rabbids! Their is some backround 
 music mostly in dancing stages, where rabbis squeals mix well with the beats of the song. In other 
 stages the song choice makes no since, (jingle bells plays in a brain puzzle game, swan lake plays 
 in a tooth cleaning game) but you usualy can barely hear it.
  
  Tilt: Games are improved by fun wii controls and funny rabbids. The ability to change your costume 
 to a variety of styles (from elvis to granny) is also cool. But unfortunately, the constant reworkings 
 of the dancing, racing, and shooting can get anoying after the billionth time ( the games are very 
 fun, but dancing appears once every round in story, and shooting/racing every other round.) . Many 
 games also use the same flicking wiimote and or nunchuck actions though it is barely noticeable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GnarlsB
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  R. R. R is basically Wario Ware put into the Rayman franchise. Although it sounds awkward to play 
 a game like this that isn't Wario, it isn't because the game introduces a new species of furry 
 badness. The Rabbids make their first appearence in the Rayman games and let me tell you, they 
 are some of the funniest, stupidest, weirdest enemies you will face in probably any game in 2006. 
 All the games have you doing different things that involve the Wii remote and the nunchuck and 
 sometimes the Wii remote speaker. The best minigames are probably the on-rail shooting portions 
 because everything clicks and it all runs smoothly. You aim your Wii remote to shoot bunnies and 
 shake the nunchuck to reload. It sounds really simple and it should be. Other fun minigames have 
 you dancing by striking the Wii remote and nunchuck like drumsticks when the bunnies reach the 
 middle, sort of like DDR. With fun minigames there also comes bad, one minigame has you trying 
 to listen to your wii remote to warn you of upcoming enemies, but the sound is so garbled and almost 
 sounds broken, that you really can't do anything about it. Besides the minigames there really is 
 no story to RRR. But then I would be lying, there is a story to be found in RRR, but it is not 
 a complex and well thought. You get the opening cut-scene when you are having a picnic with Globoxes 
 and later Rayman gets kidnapped by a huge Rabbid and is put into a Rabbid arena where he must past 
 3 out of 4 challeges every day to acess the final challenge. Rinse water repeat. When you start 
 beating many challeges though the Bunnies will start to admire you and begin to play songs for 
 you and even worship you.
  
  Pros+: Sets the Good Wii gameplay impression on you for the first 1 hour, Some minigames really 
 make good use of the Wii remote to make it a fun experience; Graphics are absolutly gorgeous with 
 amazing animation and wonderful lighting and technical effects; Some of the liscened music is fun 
 to hear in the dancing minigames; Mulitplayer adds some thrils; Everything is fun and original 
 to keep the non-playing people a chance to get in.
  
  Cons-: A deep story would've been nice; Some minigames don't make good use of the Wii remote or 
 are a little too hard; Mulitplayer is a little limited when it comes down to more than 2 players. 
 Game only takes around 3 hours to beat.
  
  Overall: While the game still impresses me and is still fun, the game can easily be beat and forking 
 over fifty dollars for a short game might be a rip-off for some. Try renting it first and I'm sure 
 you'll get your dose of good gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_bad_byron
Rating: 2.3
Date: Dec 27, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids 3/10 All the reviews seemed to suggest this game would be good. They were 
 wrong. Few of these 75+mini-games are interesting or even fun. I suppose you can't really blame 
 Ubisoft THAT much, considering they're pouring most of their resources into their AAA title
  Assassin's Creed .
  
  Gameplay 2/10 It's just pitiful really. Few of the 75+ mini-games are 
 interesting, much-less fun.
  Graphics 4/10 Uneven. Harmful to the eyes sometimes. Though the bunnies are done well (mostly) .
 
  Sound 3/10 Very poor game music for the most part. Many SNES titles completely dwarf this game 
 in Sound content.
  Value 1/10 What value can there be in a game with not much more than 75 ill-conceived boring mini-games???
 
  Tilt 2/10 In theory this could have been a good game. In theory communism works. In theory...
 
  
  Final Note:- Some of the mini-games are ridiculously strenuous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pacotacoplayer
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 27, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 7
  
  There tends to be a lot of intersections with the graphics. For example, plungers going through 
 plungers, etc. The game doesnt show the potential of the graphics a Wii can give. More like less 
 then a gamecube. You forget youre playing on a 3rd generation console sometimes when youre playing 
 aswell. Gameplay: 9
  
  Some minigames are anoying and painful and get extremely frustrating, while others are quite addictive 
 and fun. Singleplayer mode is VERY short. Beat it in about 20 hours overall. I suggest you rent 
 this game first like I did, because you can finish it easy in the time you have for renting it. 
 Makes good use of the controllers, although the racing mode was dissapointing when I found out 
 you couldn't play by using the Wii Remote as a steering wheel and had to use the Nunchuck anolog 
 stick to steer. Very customizable because you can unlock lots of outfits and mix and match on your 
 rayman character with his own room.
  
  Sound: 9 I like the suction cup sounds of the plungers :P Music is really catchy, and bunnies sound 
 really cute and fluffy :P Everything sounded as it should, and it made the game quite enjoyable. 
 Although, man...... those pig squeals. Value: 7 The game should really be a bit cheaper because 
 of its short story mode and limited multiplayer mode. No split screen ticked me off. And taking 
 turns did too. Especially racing. No split screen racing? No 2 at a time racing? Pfffffff! Overall: 
 8.4 The game is fun. It'll keep you playing for a few hours and coming back for more occasionally. 
 I still hope the Wii comes out with better games though.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shazaila
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 27, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  I myself don't own a Wii. However, a friend of mine who lives a few minutes away does. So, whenever 
 I drop by, a little bit of Wii never hurt anyone. One of the few games I played at his house was 
 Rabbids. I'm really impressed by how the game looks, and how the game plays. The game has tons 
 of variety, and enough to impress even the pickiest of people. The game simply offers one of the 
 best Wii experiences ever. (However, get use to sore arms for some of the mini games)
  
  Rabbids has A LOT of mini games. I've played my fair share of them, and they're really innovative, 
 and tons o fun. To name a few, there's one where you have to pluck worms out of the teeth of these 
 individuals. The way you do this is by using the Wii mote. No nunchuk is necessary here. You have 
 to take out as much as you can before they rot the hell out of the teeth. Another one is, there'll 
 be several of the Rabbids singing, while one of them is being a distraction. So you must, find 
 the specific one, zoom in with the wii mote, and give him a smack with the nunchuk. This one is 
 really fun, and I dare you NOT to laugh the first time you do it. There's this game that a spin 
 off of, lets say, time crisis . Instead of guns, you'll use plungers (weird) to attack your enemies. 
 You use the wii mote to aim, and the nunchuk to reload. This game is a game in its own right and 
 is really a great addition. Those are only a few of the games, but you get the point. So these 
 games are fun, albeit short, hence the name, mini games, and it's a great way to have fun in a 
 few seconds.
  
  The wii mote works wonders, and the games with the nunchuk's are great too. The wii mote is easy, 
 and fun to use. Some games take a little getting use too, but hey, you can't get it right off the 
 bat. It's fluid and easy to use. You don't have to necessarily be a gamer to know how to play, 
 and enjoy raving Rabbids. It's a nice, simple game, with a nice premise and it's sure to please 
 anyone. So don't think you're too old for this game. You're never too old to have a good time.
 
  
  So all in all, Rabbids is a fantastic game, and it delivers exactly what the Nintendo wii is here 
 to do, to deliver a nice, interactive experience that anyone can enjoy. This game isn't the best, 
 nor is it a killer app. But, you would do good to get it with you brand new Wii. So, while you're 
 going on the hunt for a wii game, put Rabbids on your list. Who doesn't like a silly game ever 
 once and a while? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BDR_Productions
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 26, 2006 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Raving Rabbids for the Wii is a great game that features a vast array of incredibly addicting mini-games. 
 The story is very simple but still works, you play as Rayman and you are captured by a giant evil 
 bunny and forced to compete in their gladiator style arena. As Rayman beats each level he gets 
 a plunger, after receiving several plungers from beating each level, Rayman realizes that the plungers 
 can be used as a ladder to escape his dungeon. The story is simple but works. As for the game-play, 
 Raving Rabbids does great job of producing quality minigames. Almost all of the mini-games are 
 in depth and addictive, but their are still a select couple that don not work as well as one would 
 want. I conclusion, the mini-games are in the same ring as Wariorware but still had room to be 
 better. I respect Raymans game developers for leaving the adventure style game-play to rebuild 
 the series as a repeatable mini-game party game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngelnX
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 26, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  I just bought this game with my Best Buy gift card and this game is well worth it for you and your 
 group of friends. The good about this game that I played so far are some of the mini-games I've 
 played. One is that you have four toilet stalls with the rabbits on them. In this objective you 
 have to close the doors aiming with your Wii-mote and shutting them by flicking your nunchuck. 
 If you fail to close one then the rabbits will go nuts and shoot a toilet plunger at you. Anothe 
 rone that I like is like a house of the dead style shooter with the rabbits with a plunger. one 
 cool thing about that mini-game is when a rabbit comes up close to you, you can grab them and throw 
 it at other rabbits. Its very hilarious especially all the funny counds they make. One bad thing 
 about this game is that the fact you have to play the campaign mode to unlock all 70 mini-games. 
 Other than that, if you want another game for your party gaming collection, this game should be 
 in your shoes. If you love Super Monkey Ball, you will love Rayman Raving Rabits just as much!
 
  
  4 out of 5
  nX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drswank
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 26, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  The Wii console launch would have been a lot more boring without a party game to round out the 
 lineup. Thank goodness that UbiSoft gave us Rayman Raving Rabbids, a game that distinguishes itself 
 as more than just another Mario Party in sheeps clothing. While Raving Rabbids is a departure 
 from the standard Rayman platformer, there are hours of fun and a few dozen mini games that, aside 
 from a few exceptions, never really get old. Add in excellent application of the Wiis motion-sensing 
 controls and all-out hilarity, and Rayman Raving Rabbids is a package that anyone looking to get 
 their multiplayer fix would be a fool to pass up.
  
  A thin and flimsy story ties the entire game together where Rayman is out for a picnic one day, 
 when all of a sudden the ground starts rumbling and he is confronted by a swarm of Rabbids, which 
 look very much like rabbits  only they belt out blood-curdling screams and look as if theyve 
 been huffing paint since birth. The Rabbids, presumably bent on taking over the universe, take 
 Rayman captive for the sake of becoming their entertainment. Rayman finds himself becoming the 
 main event at the Rabbid coliseum, yet instead of gladiatorial combat, Rayman will have to take 
 on the Rabbids in a number of mini games in hopes of earning his freedom.
  
  The mini games that make up the bulk of the game will have you drawing shapes onscreen, swinging 
 the Wii remote around, pumping the remote and nunchuk violently, twisting your hands in ways you 
 never thought they could, and most importantly, bringing pain to the seemingly cuddly Rabbids in 
 every way possible. Mini games range from swinging the Wii remote like a lasso to launch a cow 
 as far as possible, playing a modified version of Whack-a-Mole where you pound Rabbids back into 
 their holes with a shovel, yanking worms from a Rabbids cavities, drowning waves of Rabbids in 
 carrot juice and even waving the remote and nunchuk to the beat of La Bamba in a rhythm game. Going 
 in depth into each of the mini games would take all day to chronicle, but the variety is definitely 
 there. Of course, with such a large variety of mini games some are bound to bomb. Some mini games 
 run way too long, as is the case in the rhythm games, while others are so short youll miss them 
 if you blink. Some of the games are just downright frustrating. One particular mini game expects 
 you to keep doors from opening on occupied outhouses, but the application of the controls just 
 falls flat and the outhouses on the outer edges of the screen seem to take a stroke of luck to 
 shut. Luckily, these moments are rare and the majority of the mini games are crafted out of one-hundred 
 percent pure fun. Add in the constant bumbling and screams from the Rabbids, and youll be laughing 
 all the way to the end of the game.
  
  One true standout to the mini games are the on-rails first person shooting games that end every 
 other level. These games are so good, that youd wish that a stand-alone game could be made off 
 of these alone. The games have Rayman, armed with a plunger gun, going up against waves of armed 
 Rabbids in old west and contemporary backdrops. In addition to the plunger gun, Rayman also has 
 an attack where he can shoot his hand and grab an enemy to toss back at oncoming groups. The Rabbids 
 you encounter will change depending on the setting of the game. Theyll don cowboy hats in the 
 old west town, while youll be fighting Rabbids equipped with the trademark Sam Fisher night vision 
 goggles in other levels. Completing sets of mini games will earn Rayman a variety of neat looking 
 costumes ranging from goth, to gangsta, to grandma and will even allow you to mix-and-match the 
 different portions of each costume. Did I just hear someone say goth grandma disco dancer? Oh yeah, 
 its possible!
  
  While Raman Raving Rabbids is by no means a graphical powerhouse, the visuals work just fine for 
 the over exaggerated and cartoony visuals the game employs. Nothing will ever get too ugly up close 
 and the game looks perfectly fine in high definition. The art style of the game sticks to the basics, 
 so dont expect any kind of fancy shading effects here. Rayman really excels when it comes to sound. 
 The screaming, gurgling, and burping that come out of the Rabbids will never get old and will pretty 
 much induce laughter no matter how many times you hear them. The most interesting part of the games 
 sound is its soundtrack which features an eclectic variety of licensed music from the aforementioned 
 La Bamba to perennial 80s mega hit Girls Just Wanna Have Fun. Licensed tracks aside, youll 
 still get a good variety of music from the game ranging from epic-sounding scores to rock music, 
 and even a little bit of hip-hop.
  
  Rayman Raving Rabbids is a prime example of the revolution the Wii has promised gamers. If this 
 game is any indication of whats to come, party games have just gotten twice as fun as theyve 
 been in previous generations. While you may not feel compelled to play through the game multiple 
 times, there are still hours of enjoyment to be had here. Raving Rabbids has it all, from excellent 
 execution of the Wiis control scheme to a great sense of humor thats bound to bring joy to gamers 
 of all ages, young and old alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkrio
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 26, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids is a very Fun, Cute and engaging game. The story mode is a bit short and 
 does not give much story but it gives you a backround of the creepy bunnies.
  
  Game Play: Really Fun to play. I got a real kick out of slapping, shooting and, tossing Rabbits 
 around. Doesnt get old with 183,000 points to earn to get fun bonus's, videos and artwork ect. Really 
 Fun to play alone or shoot up some rabbids with a friend or two
  
  Graphics: Very Cute, and halarious rabbids. The graphics give a fun effect.
  Though the large 
 arena audiences do look slightly cheap and there isnt enough cutscenes.
  
  Sound: Well done bunny voices and plunger effects alltogether good 
  
  Value: You'll want to 
 come back to this game and it's great to get some friends togtheter to play. Though I dont advise 
 purchasing this game, I do recommend renting it 2 or 3 times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreichel
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 26, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  Rayman: Raving Rabbids is a must have for the Wii along with LoZ: Twilight Princess but one thing 
 is for sure bunnies+break dancing floor= PARTY!
  
  Graphics: 8/10 graphics are nice but dont stand up to the other new-gen consoles (PS3 and Xbox 
 360) but are more like a top quality original Xbox game.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10 gameplay is awesome but left handers will need to switch if the have Wiimote in 
 left hand for games sutch as the dancing one and a few others and games like the tracing one where 
 you have to trace atleast 5 foods for a rabbid to eat before time runs out and can get frustrating.
 
  
  Sound: 9/10 good sound with occational Wiimote sounds and awesome licenced soundtracks make it 
 enjoyable for any music fan.
  
  Value: 60$ Canadian (50$ American) is worth the money sinse most new-gen games are 65-70$ Canadian.
 
  
  Tilt: 10/10 this game is the funniest title for the Wii so far, it is a must buy for anyone who 
 owns a Wii or will soon own a Wii in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuineaPig255
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 25, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  If you liked WarioWare or Mario Party, then you'll love this. Sure it's all mini-games, but they 
 are addictive and fun. They all last on the average one minute. This time, the real main characters 
 are the rabbids. This game is really funny and humorous, and will have you laughing in no time. 
 The graphics are nothing special, but their not the main part anyway. You'll have to close doors, 
 run, jump rope, shoot, and lots of more things. This game won't last you very long. You can beat 
 the main story mode in about 3 hours. The main thing that shines is the multiplayer. If you don't 
 plan on doing multiplayer, then this game is a rent. It's just not worth 50 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 25, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  GOOD- The Rabbids are cute and funny; custmoize rayman; Lots of fun mini games; the best game that 
 uses the unique Wii abllity
  
  BAD- Some mini games are bad and hard; could've putten a good story in
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Rayman 
 Raving Rabbids is the funniest game for the wii todate!, the new chamming, funny and naughty Rabbids 
 are the stars of this game because... well just look at them *Everybody: Awe*. Rayman Rabing Rabbids 
 is alot like Mario party but alot better because you can use the Wiimotes new unique abillty that 
 beats the PS2 and the other consol versions, making this game very fun, very fun indeed, but some 
 of the mini games are rubbish and some are very hard and does'nt read your movements dropping the 
 replay value!. although this is a great game, i'd still recomend renting it than buying it!.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics in this game look brilliant, there sharp and dim, but in a good way, 
 the graphics are better than the 360 version, there both artisticl and techniqual brilliant and 
 the frame rate is still, well not all the time, but most of the time, with no bugs and glitches
 
  
  SOUND
  There is'nt any voice acting in Raving Rabbids, apart from the Rabbids crazy, but funny scream 
 that comes out for no reason what so ever in some unexspected times, its got funky music and even 
 liscened music during the times you boogie on the dance floor Yeh!!.
  
  OVERALL
  Overall Rayman Raving Rabbids is a great game, but can get frustrating with the hardness but you'll 
 enjoy the game alot. weather your a fan of rayman or not 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harleyrulesall
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 25, 2006 5:09 am PT
Review:  When i picked this game up i was looking for hours of fun. But when i played it for about an hour 
 i found my self playing other games. Rayman raving rabbids is the latest edition in the rayman 
 series. Instead of the traditional platformer, rayman is a compliation of some fun and frustrating 
 minigames. While most of the game is spent by playing different games, every set of trials there 
 is the same dancing minigame but with a different song. Also some mini's can get quite frustrating. 
 My biggest complaint however is the lack of a story line. Whenever you complete a task you don't 
 feel like you've actually accomplished anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeanGS
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 23, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids uses the full potential of the Nintendo Wii. In the game there are just many 
 mini games. These are very fun to play, and even by yourself the mini games are still fun. You 
 use the Wii Remote and the nunchuck all the time. The controls are greatly set up for each mini 
 game. I havent had this much fun in a Wii game. I can play for hours straight by myself and its 
 still fun. The story mode is a good length surprisingly because usually these types of games are 
 short. I didnt think that it would be this good. The main mini game is shooting the Rabbids with 
 plungers. This works well, and most shooting games for Wii usually are bad. There is also a dance 
 mini game that comes up often, where you have to flick your wrist when the rabbit goes to a certain 
 place and is a rhythm game that is fun. One bad thing is the multiplayer is not good. Overall this 
 is one of my favorite Wii games that Ive played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan_returns29
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2006 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids is a very satisfying party game that just about everyone can enjoy. Even 
 though the game may have Rayman in it's name, the real stars are the Rabbids.
  
  The game consists of many different mini games, that you have to complete in order to progress 
 in the game. Each mini game uses the Wii remotes differently, which makes the game extremely fun 
 and less repetitive. The gameplay is pretty much top notch except that a small amount of mini games 
 do get frustrating.
  
  The graphics in Raving Rabbids aren't that impressive, they just look exactly the same as GameCube 
 graphics. The graphics do not make the game look too bad, it's just that the game would have been 
 better if the graphics were improved up to Wii standards.
  
  The music in Raving Rabbids is great, the soundtrack is awesome and appeals to almost everyone. 
 The sounds in the game are pretty funny as well, such as the screams and groans that the Rabbids 
 make.
  
  Whilst Raving Rabbids may be a very fun game, it doesn't take that long to complete the game. Also, 
 the multiplayer is pretty lackluster meaning your better off playing the game in 1 player mode 
 only. You could always play over the mini games or start a new game yourself to keep yourself entertained.
 
  
  In the end, I think that Rayman Raving Rabbids is a hilariously fun and wacky party game that every 
 Wii owner should give a try at least once. The game would have been better if the graphics were 
 tuned up and the game lasted longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enrique_marrodz
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 20, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  While party/mini-game games may not be everyone's favorite, Rayman Raving Rabbids stands on its 
 own due the great characters and absurd themes.
  
  The storyline is fairly simplistic, as Rayman's friends get kidnaped during a picnic and, after 
 he gets caught too, he start a career as entertainer for the evil bunnies, which includes all kind 
 of challenges using a great use of the motion sensing technology.
  
  Soon at the game you'll find yourself doing such absurd things as launching cows, dancing Misirlou 
 , running to deliver explosive presents, drawing food for your evil hosts and so much other things.
 
  
  About the game basics.
  
  You'll find some pretty fine enviroments in some of the minigames, and some other actually just 
 need pretty simplistic graphics. The overall results is pleasing and, in the rail FPS missions, 
 you'll note a very good degree of detail and effects. In the minor side, you may note some clipping 
 and framerate issues, but nothing to worry about.
  
  For the sound department you can find some very good themes like Misirlou , La Bamba , etc. And 
 everything sound just appropiate to set the mood. Once again is not perfect and, specifically when 
 talking about the Wii-mote speaker, you can find some very nasty issues in a certain minigame where 
 you receive hints via this speaker, as it may sound correct or as a unintelligible mumble or mute 
 at all. Worst of all, is not predictable when is this going to fail and the minigame itself is 
 impossible without this feature.
  
  Finally, the minigame collection has a lot of variety and you may find some very memmorable games 
 as some otherfairly simplistic. Also, the difficulty is not so high but it includes a challenge 
 mode which, indeed,, is very challenging as some of the records are very hard to break. This way 
 you can unlock extras, like the famous bunny videos you surely have seen.
  
  Overall, RRR makes some of the greatest and more funniest uses of the wii-mote/nunchuck to the 
 date and, although the story mode is short, the replay value is great as most of the minigames 
 can be played with just one controller. So, if you like to have fun and enjoy playing with a bunch 
 of friends, don't hessitate to include it in your ever growing Wii collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluey2323
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 20, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game that anybody that has a wii should buy. It has over 60 mini games which means 
 a lot of replay value. The plunger wars are cool also. Most of the mini games are good but some 
 are hard and not really fun. You can also change costume and stuff. It is also pretty funny. I 
 am glad this was a release game because it is one of the best. I like the platforming ones better 
 but this is still good. It has a some bonuses too. The graphics are good but a little glitchy. 
 I think if you like any mini game type game you will like this a lot. Even though I beat it I still 
 like to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yodariquo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 18, 2006 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids
  Bunnies most certainly love to dance
  
  Presentation (10%) - 9
  Controls (17.5%) - 9
  Variety (25%) - 7.5
  Audio (7.5%) - 9.75
  Depth (15%) - 6.5
  Value 
 &amp; Fun (25%) - 7
  
  OVERALL - 7.81
  
  My Review Policy: http://www. gamespot. com/pages/profile/show_blog_entry. php? topic_id=m-100-24801077&amp; user=yodariquo
 
  
  Multiplayer Importance: Low.
  
  Previously played game in the series: None.
  
  Television set-up: 19 Sylvania CRT, SDTV 480i, composite cables.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Gameplay Outline
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Rayman 
 Raving Rabbids, while bearing the Rayman franchise name, has only that name in resemblance to the 
 franchise. Raving Rabbids is a collection of minigames that make various use of the Wii remote.
 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Dedication Meter - 10%
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  You'll have to play through the story mode to unlock multiplayer and score mode, so to hop right 
 in, you do have to put some time into the single player campaign, which only saves after you finish 
 a round of 3 minigames (4 if you play the extra dancing game) and a longer boss style game. It's 
 easy to get into and you don't have to spend long in a sitting. It really is a pick-up-and-play 
 title.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Presentation 
 - 9
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The presentation has a big impact on the enjoyment of the game. Undeniably, most people would not 
 even consider this game if it were not for the bunnies, who are indeed the stars. The game features 
 raving rabbids (bunnies) who are trying to take over the world. The bunnies are fairly incoherent 
 and only seem to respond to dancing which they love and comes up often throughout the game. The 
 animation is simplified by very effective and entertaining, particularly in the dancing minigame. 
 More and more dancing bunnies all in rhythm with all their various moves makes it impossible not 
 to smile.
  
  Technically speaking, Rayman looks fair, but does not particularly impress. The visuals are good 
 enough to show off the style of the rabbids, but there's definitely nothing particularly special 
 on the technical side. The menus are, for the most part, effective. Before each game you'll not 
 only get clear instructions on how the game will play out, but an animation of a bunny performing 
 the controller movements. It takes some getting used to the score mode menu, though, as it's very 
 odd. It could have been more clear, but its charms balance it out. you select games from a jigsaw-puzzle 
 style layout in which the pieces generally show what the game's about, but it's not exactly obvious 
 and it could have been better displayed.
  
  The story in the game is the real disappointment. If you go into the game without knowledge of 
 the game, you'll be very confused. The bunnies rising to take over the world isn't explained at 
 all and there's only cinematics at the beginning and end, aren't aren't that great anyway.
  
  While there are flaws, the charm of the bunnies is undeniable.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Controls - 9
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Rayman 
 Raving Rabbids is a great primer for the beginner Wii player because it puts the Wii remote and 
 nunchuck through all the motions. When it comes to most minigames, the only thing to blame for 
 failure is your own shaky hands, although most games you'll probably have to try once before the 
 concept clicks and you can get a good enough score to advance. The range is very wide and may or 
 may not use the nunchuck depending on the games. The games that use the nunchuck use a very rub 
 the belly and pat the head type of mechanic which will have you switching hands and sitting positions 
 to try and get the most effective technique for success. It's worth noting that in no game do you 
 feel as though the result is a fluke or control is out of your hands at all.
  
  The only detractors are just little problems that show up in certain games. For example, a game 
 has you slamming a bathroom stall door on bunnies, which really doesn't show you how to properly 
 close the door and can cause some problems -- the correct technique is to have your cursor over 
 the bunny and not the door, which is confusing and unexplained. There's a knife-throwing style 
 game that doesn't really come off as responsive. But the only game that is just poor because of 
 it is a game in which you guide a pig to its parents by listening for underground bunnies through 
 the Wii remote speaker -- it's hard to tell what you're hearing, what you hear is painful to listen 
 to, and the harder version has portions where the noise intentionally is overwhelmed by another 
 noise and makes it entirely luck. Avoiding the few games that are problematic, the controls are 
 great, but there are little irks here and there.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Variety - 7.5
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  The mini-game concepts are varied and fun and make good use of the Wiimote's features. There are 
 many short minigames and a few long ones. The long ones (racing, shooting, dancing) have several 
 different levels, but the smaller games typically have an easy version and a harder version. The 
 harder versions basically take up the second half of the short story mode, so it feels a little 
 depleted. There are several move the Wiimote and nunchuck up and down quickly games, that while 
 humourous to see, don't really mix things up enough to make them feel like independent games. Aside 
 from the up and down games, the rest feel independent which makes each interesting in its own right.
 
  
  There is multiplayer, but this should not really be considered a party game. The multiplayer games 
 are played independently and doesn't have any party game rules of who's the first to win so many 
 or anything of the like. The number of simultaneous games are limited, and only includes two of 
 the three long minigames. The minigames can only really be comparable to Mario Party, and having 
 them not within the context of an actual game (and having far fewer games) , it's more of an extra 
 than a selling point.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Audio - 9.75
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The audio, just like the presentation, makes the experience far better than it would have without 
 its charm. The bunnies' screams are hilarious, as is almost everything to do with the audio. There 
 are bunny remixed tracks that include Jingle Bells and Beethoven's Ode to Joy. There's a good selection 
 of songs for the dancing game, both in number and in selection. The only little qualms are just 
 limited use of the bunny sounds in gameplay, which I think could have been pushed more. Overall 
 it's brilliantly done.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Depth - 6.5
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Most games are to do one task, and there's not much beyond that. Where you'll find some strategy 
 is in how you use the Wii remote and in select minigames. The longer minigames, while more fun, 
 aren't exactly loaded with depth, but it doesn't hurt the experience in those cases. Racing has 
 a few shortcuts and implementation of bursts, shooting has little objects throughout the world 
 you can shoot, and dancing is just striking either right or left in rhythm. Games aren't too simple, 
 but there aren't exactly chess, either. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Value &amp; Fun - 7
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Rayman 
 Raving Rabbids acts as a fun diversion and is solid enough for a launch title, but lacks in games 
 that are actually worth playing again. The single-player campaign only takes about 4 hours to complete, 
 with half of the games being harder repeats. It's good unique fun to play through, but not to play 
 through again. Some games can be frustrating, although the frustration doesn't last as it's likely 
 you'll find a solution to each game quickly.
  
  What holds the game together really are the longer minigames. The shooting game is basically a 
 rail-shooter. You only control your aim and fire as bunnies pop out of every nook, ready to pounce. 
 You can find a music player in each level which will make all the bunnies on screen dance, which 
 is particularly amusing (and useful) . It's not difficult, but it's entertaining, although not great 
 for high-scores. The racing game is perhaps the most challenging to win as you'll have to use shortcuts 
 and the control of a large hog can be appropriately unwieldy. Timely use of boost is integral.
 
  
  The highlight of the entire game is inarguably the dancing game. The bunnies come from either side 
 to a circle at which time you do a drum strike; it's simple, but the physical aspect really gets 
 the player into the beat. There are about seven songs which a an easy and hard version of each 
 (a third difficulty for one) and is strangely addictive. The songs themselves are great because 
 not only do they lend themselves to rhythm games well, but they are also hilarious bunny remixes. 
 This is what I find to be the lasting value in the game and by far the most fun.
  
  There are also unlockable bonuses for playing score mode and getting cumulative points. There are 
 a lot of points to get, and to get them all is absurd as you have to be quite seriously perfect 
 to get 1000/1000 - the rhythm game you do have to get every beat perfect. It's a nice addition, 
 but the rewards aren't really worth the input if you don't want to play all the games again while 
 going for great scores (you need to land in the top 3 high scores to get any points) .
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Overall - 7.81
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Rayman Raving Rabbids is what it is -- a funny collection of minigames with bunnies. It's not anything 
 amazing or spectactular, but it doesn't make many mistakes either. It's a fun little quirky game 
 that works well as a launch title. The main mistake would be to take this as a party game, as it 
 doesn't really work well that way at all. I doubt it will be disappointing to many, but its flaws 
 are apparent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xeronicfire
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 18, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  I think developers are afraid to push the Wii graphically. The wii can handle a bit more than the 
 original xbox. This game was not bad at all but definately tell they held back here. Besides that 
 this is a great mutiplayer party game. The single player might of needed a little more story to 
 it but besides that was a nice way to unlock new games and really feed on the meat of the game. 
 I liked how some of the games were very simple and mixed with the difficult ones. You never knew 
 what to expect. I really liked the goals not being way easy. They were fair.
  
  Good job maybe the future games will try to push a little harder on graphics. But this is a small 
 quirk I have my self. You though will see some minigames with awsome graphics some with sup par. 
 But all are pretty fun. THe boring ones are usually short so that keeps them fun in that fact alone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weakan
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 4:58 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD POINTS:75 awsome minigames, very good controls,38 different techniques to use your WII-REMOTE 
 and NUNCHUCK, many rabbits, there is many humor in this game, multi player with MAX 3 friends, if you 
 player with friends this game is two times funner then you play this on your own, many costumes 
 and funny extra s to get, cool story mode, fun cry that the rabbits shout {it sounds like  
 THE BAD POINTS: the most minigames are easy but fun [CONCLUSION] this game is surely a must buy 
 for rayman fans and for people that already have THE LEGEND OF ZELDA: TWILIGHT PRINSES a awsome 
 game that you must have if you want to complete your collection, and want to play good PARTY GAME 
 {maybe the best party game for the nintendo wii} with friends that consumes MANY MANY HOURS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naneville
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun. It had me laughing from the very beginning. My wife was laughing hysterically 
 when I was playing Bunnies Can't Dance. Imagine a 40+ year old guy dancing and moving around like 
 a young kid. The game consists of a series of mini-games ranging from easy to challenging. The 
 very first game I played has Rayman running with a dynamite cake to a checkpoint before it blows 
 up. It took me a few tries and needed a break before I could complete it. If you are looking for 
 a great family oriented game give this a try. The entire game is a blast. The Wii has redefined 
 video gaming. Rayman Raving Rabbids is a perfect example of how. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarlockJC
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 16, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Rayman has many and many minigames, which are a ton of fun. The problem is there is no story to 
 the game, yeah there bunnies that kidnap you but that it. So far in the game all you know is that 
 you have been kidnaped and forced to play minigames. Unisoft could have put some story into the 
 game but they left it at the office. The graphics are go on par with a Gamecube game nothing else. 
 But everyone should have tons of fun playing the game how else are you going to throw a cow. So 
 if you are looking for a game to play this may be just it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THCpariah
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 16, 2006 6:47 am PT
Review:  Rayman has always been a great series. Maybe because it was made much later than the classic platformers, 
 maybe because it was a little too French, but for some reason it never really got the respect it 
 deserved. When a Rayman game was announced for the Wii people got excited until they learned it 
 wouldn't be one of the classic platforming adventures and instead a collection of minigames. Still, 
 most were optimistic for the game, as it seemed to use the Wii remote in interesting ways. Did 
 it work out in the game's favor? Well.... yes and no. There is somewhat of a story to this one. 
 Rayman's been kidnapped by the Raving Rabbids, a bunch of lunatic bunny rabbits that don't know 
 how to do much besides dance. Now their slave, Rayman's forced into playing minigames. (Those dastardly 
 bunnies!) As he gets more and more popular he wins plungers (yes, the toilet kind) and the affection 
 of the crowd. He uses the plungers to escape from his cell... That's about it. This game wishes 
 it could be Mario Party, but it makes some huge mistakes in doing that. First off, to unlock all 
 of the games for multiplayer you have to beat the single player mode. This is not how the game 
 should be played. The setup of the game is this, as the Rabbid's gladiator you're locked up in 
 a room where you're periodically brought out to fight in an arena of sorts. The arena has 4 doors 
 to minigames, and a final exit that only opens once all of the minigames have been beaten. Now 
 here's the thing... every time you come to the arena the same types of games are available. 1 door 
 always leads to the disco dance minigames, one leads to the games where you have to shake the controller 
 like crazy, and so on. Remember that there's over 70 minigames, and you'll begin to realize how 
 repetitive the game is. Never mind that the later levels in the game are actually the same ones 
 from the beginning! Just, instead of say, milking a cow you're now going to have to milk a cow 
 and throw away the bottle. The little button presses and motions that have been added on don't 
 change the fact that the games are the same. So after drudging through the single player mode (which 
 has some incredibly repetitive cinemas, as well) you're rewarded by being able to play the same 
 games in multiplayer. Here's where more problems start up. First off, you won't want to play these 
 games again. Second, when you play with a friend, you have to pick a game to play. That's right, 
 there's no random mode, or even a game with multiple players- you pick which minigame you want 
 to play, and you play it. There's a mode where you can do a few in a row, but in order to get that 
 you have to unlock points.... by playing the same games in multiplayer. It's maddening. That's 
 not to say they're bad... far from that. There's a lot of great minigames here. There's a shooting 
 game here that's on rails (like a Time Crisis game) that's incredibly fun. You aim plungers at 
 the Rabbids with the remote and reload by shaking the nunchuck, There's lots of cool boss battles 
 and different types of enemies. It's available in multiplayer as well, in 2-player co-op or competitively. 
 The other longer minigames don't work nearly as well, such as the races and some of the more repetitive 
 games. You'll soon learn which to avoid, and which doesn't work in multiplayer. See, some aren't 
 games you can play in the same time instead making you take turns. Very boring when you've got 
 4 people attempting the same game, one after the other. But there are some classics here. Such 
 as the singing choir of bunnies where you have to zoom in on them to see which one's being a wiseass 
 and singing silly, so you can slap him. Or the game where you swing a cow around Olympic hammer 
 style before launching him for distance. Or the game where you try to kick a rabbit past a goalie 
 in order to score. There's also a dance mode where you shake the controllers in a simplified Samba 
 De Amigo style to some actual licensed music. Yep, you can shake your booty to OPP (yeah you know 
 me) Girls Just Wanna Have Fun and Misirlou (the real version! Not the Guitar Hero abortion.) It 
 makes for a fun time, especially co-op... but there's not much to it. One thing the game does right 
 is by having a sense of humor. The game is pretty hysterical. The Rabbid's screams are always funny, 
 and it's really entertaining to abuse the little bastards. You will abuse them a lot, too- bashing 
 them on the heads with shovels, launching them off mine carts, and drowning them with carrot juice. 
 This game has a lot of personality, which is good- because the minigames wouldn't be half as fun 
 without it. The graphics are a very mixed bag because in some areas you can definitely see that 
 the Wii has some power behind it, with huge outdoor areas that you can see for miles; but others 
 look just like a Gamecube game. This isn't a game to get to show off your system for the graphics 
 though, obviously. The music's good, if only for the licensed tracks. Nothing like blasting La 
 Bamba while backup bunny dancers scream behind you. Like I said before, the game gets old quick. 
 There are some really fun minigames, but they're nothing you'll play for hours on end. Pity the 
 poor person who unlocks all the games in the single player mode, because they'll never want to 
 play half of the games again. In an attempt to increase your replay value Ubisoft has a feature 
 where you get codes for high scores and enter it at the Rayman site to see how you stack up worldwide. 
 Kinda cool, but shouldn't this have been available through the online capabilities of the Wii? 
 Damn you Nintendo. Don't get me wrong I had a lot of fun with this game, and it really is a great 
 game to show off the versatility of the Wii remote probably better even than Wii Sports. But the 
 concept on a whole is just too sloppy to keep your interest for too long. If I had reviewed this 
 game a couple of days after I started playing it, this would have been a much more positive review. 
 But fact is that you'll get bored with this after playing all of the good games a handful of times, 
 and it's not something that's going to light up your party. With better multiplayer and a more 
 beefed up single player mode this could've been a keeper. Which is a shame, because as it is right 
 now, it's just not. An entertaining diversion, but anyone who wants a quick round of minigames 
 might be better off waiting for Warioware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysteriously
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 15, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  I was turned on to this game by a co-worker when he showed me the trailer on YouTube. The game 
 was really hard to find in Toronto but I gots me one!!!!! Bought it online at The Source (Radio 
 Shack) .
  
  This game is for those with twisted senses of humour (yeah baby) . I also have a day job so I dont 
 really have time for games with long learning curves. Twilight Princess still unopened because 
 of this fear of a long term commitment which would be completely fulfilling Im sure when I find 
 the time for it. I prefer these mini game formats more and more now. The kind you can walk away 
 from and turn it on when you need a fix. I own the WarioWare games for GBA, DS and GC. Really fun 
 to play on public transit (GBA and DS versions) . These games are as wacky and quirky as those. 
 It is a dark Mario Party with screaming Rabbids and nastier finishes if you are not a great success 
 in game.
  
  My favourite and most frustrating game so far is Bunnies Never Close Doors. I still havent completed 
 it! There are four wooden outhouse stalls and each one randomly opens with a bunny inside. You 
 have to aim the wii-mote at the door and shake the nunchuck to close it shut. If the door opens 
 too wide and stays open. Youll hear and see a bunny screaming shoot a plunger at you for your 
 slowness. Try doing this for 50 seconds. The plunger shoot-outs are final stage after you have 
 completed 3 out of 4 mini games in the Rabbid gladiator style area. This frog thing has been kidnapped 
 by the rabbids and you must rescue it. Aiming your wii-mote and shooting bunnies with the trigger 
 button and shaking the nunchuk to reload your plungers. Pure fun and cartoon violence. A great 
 spend your Christmas timeoff instead of watching boring reruns or Holiday Specials. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reggie186
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 14, 2006 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids was one of the three games I purchased with my brand new Wii console, and 
 I'm very happy that it made the cut. The story is so wonderfully quirky and some of the mini-games 
 are equally wonderfully bizarre, that this game has to be the 2nd best Wii game at launch.
  
  The first thing I need to point out is that this game isn't much of a Rayman game at all, meaning 
 that it's not a platformer starring the beloved character. Instead, you play as Rayman doing a 
 bunch of different tasks, many of them in first person. That's right: a lot of the time you don't 
 even see Rayman. The main star (s) in this game are the bunnies. The delightfully funny, and totally 
 odd looking bunnies.
  
  The mini-games will have you hitting bunnies on the head with shovels, pulling worms out of bunnies' 
 teeth and (my personal favorite) shooting bunnies with plungers in a first person shooter set of 
 games.
  
  The single player works like this: there are 15 rounds each with 4 mini-games and one final boss 
 game (which is always a first person shooter level or a warthog race) . The first 5 round or so 
 are a breeze, pretty much introducing you to the game. While the next 10 rounds don't get very 
 much harder, they add a little bit more difficulty, making the game feel like it's not the same 
 easy game all the way through. Multiplayer mini-games are unlocked after you beat those mini-games 
 in the single player mode. Most of the mini-games are very fun to play against a friend. My only 
 complaint here is in reference to the warthog races, in which one friend races at a time. Meaning 
 that the competition here is more of a time trial than a real race, leaving the multiplayer races 
 feel a little bit lame.
  
  All in all Rayman is a great game, full of hilarious oddities known as rabbids . I suggest that 
 the very lucky few who are getting a Wii this Christmas should also pick up a copy of this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo_holic
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 14, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I bought this game because of the rabbits and not for Rayman. I have to agree with 
 gamespot that the game is a bit too repetitious. Basically they just change the title of the mini-game 
 but the gameplay is still the same with the other ones. Also, I hate to play the FPS mode in the 
 end when I have to save the frog (whatever that thing is) . It is too easy and way too long. The 
 multi-player mode is also boring. Two players can't compete at once in the challenge mode. You 
 will have to play one by one so it lacks the point of being MULTI PLAYER ?! Some mini games will 
 get you to laugh because some of the games are really random. That's a good comment I can think 
 of about this game. I guess I'll not recomment people to buy this game. If you want good party 
 game just wait for the Wario game or Mario Party 8 instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joespimpin
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2006 12:31 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Variety of mini games, Rabbids are entertaining, world is lush with good use of color, 
 mini games are just the right length, story isn't compelling but doesn't get in the way either.
 
  
  THE BAD: Not all mini games are four player, no online, may not be your cup of tea for long play 
 sessions, mini game score mode interface is underwhelming
  
  FOR PARENTS: Rayman Raving Rabbids, has violence and a lot of it. However you have seen worse stuff 
 in tom and jerry then you would find here. Due to the level of understanding needed, I would rate 
 this game a 7+ Years to play.
  
  
  Reviewing Rayman Raving Rabbids is actually harder than it may seem. Everyone is used to Ubisoft's 
 classic platformer Rayman series. Because of that many fans of this series were quite turned off 
 at a mini game compilations when they were first announced. I like so many other people were caught 
 by surprise at how much life and entertainment was on display with the title. I for one am not 
 a mini game fan or party game fan. I play them here and there, mostly on my DS Lite, but I never 
 saw the console as a main stage for this genre.
  
  In the past we have seen iterations of console mini game compilations and they don't really seem 
 entertaining. The Wii much like the DS in its prime which also suffered from the inability for 
 developers to take on this new way of interfacing with games and put it into full length features. 
 Mini games are usually fun if you are the one playing the game, but to watch or be waiting your 
 turn its pretty boring. Although in history many mini game collections have managed some great 
 play times with friends and family, they are always missing something. It wasn't until this title 
 was released that I realized the missing piece of the puzzle. You are no longer the only one having 
 fun. The game is having just as much fun as you are.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  In Raving Rabbids, you play as the star Rayman himself. Armed with a plunger gun, plenty of clothing 
 options to wear you take to the mini games in the story mode of the game. Raving Rabbids have taken 
 over Rayman's world and kidnapped him, which is just an excuse to play some of the most bizarre 
 mini games ever made. That is about it for the story. There isn't any depth in it. This by no means 
 has any hindrance on the quality of the game though as story would just try to make sense out of 
 something designed to make no sense whatsoever. Although the minigames are based on some classic 
 types of games the Rayman flair along with the insanity of the bunnies mixes well and offers some 
 fresh looks and entertaining play to be had.
  
  You may be playing as the star of the series, but the real stars are the Rabbids. This is what 
 really sets apart Rayman from other mini game compilations like Super Monkey Ball that also launched 
 with the Wii. The Rabbids are full of life, they are quite frankly insane, aren't afraid to hit 
 each other with clubs, enjoy dressing up and most of all dancing. The Rabbids are unlike anything 
 that has ever been seen in a game before and add much needed life to this genre.
  
  What does that mean for the avg gamer? It means you will enjoy watching others play as the Rabbids 
 take on an active role in each game, rather they are being hit in the face with a plunger, racing 
 against you on hogs, opening wide so you can pull worms out of their teeth, singing off key or 
 any number of other included games. The unique persona of the Rabbids make them sometimes more 
 entertaining then the game itself.
  
  With all that is going for it there are some drawbacks. For one thing if you wanted to play 4 player 
 right away think again. You must unlock each mini game in story mode before playing against a friend. 
 Oh yeah and not all mini games are four player. This really isn't much of a problem though. The 
 major bad thing about this game, is how much online would have benefited it. But that is more a 
 Nintendo problem then Ubisoft problem.
  
  CONTROLS:
  
  The controls in Rayman are spot on. With the exception of a couple of mini games its easy to learn 
 and complete each challenge, considering there are 70 minigames altogether Rayman really manages 
 to keep it together for a launch title.
  
  You will find yourself using the Wiimote in various different ways in short burst games. Some like 
 the famous carrot juice game will leave your arm tired from all that cranking but it has never 
 been more satisfying. Although some of the minigames are more physical than others, none last long 
 enough to really tire your arms out, so you can look forward to long play sessions.
  
  Every aspect of the Wiimote is used. You even get to use the speaker for one of the minigames. 
 It is amazing at how many different ways they manage to use the Wiimote. This title definitely 
 showcases the possibilities of other full length games to take some of these mechanics and stretch 
 them out a bit.
  
  SOUND:
  
  Rayman has solid music when in the games. There are licensed songs that have a cartoon appeal in 
 the game that lend themselves very well to the inanity of the Rabbids. By far the most outstanding 
 sounds come from the Rabbids themselves. They scream, laugh, act confused and just generally not 
 all there.
  
  The whole package is satisfying. I really can't think of a bad use of sound effects in the game. 
 It really was well thought out.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Rayman sports clear cartoon style graphics. They are impressive at times. Many of the minigames 
 have still backgrounds which are rendered really nice. The shooter rail sequences really have items 
 and backgrounds fitting to any Rayman platformer we have seen so far. Everything really ties in 
 together. There is also a good variety of types of Rabbids. Different costumes they wear from a 
 cowboy to a Sam Fisher really show up well and are easy to understand what this Rabbid is supposed 
 to represent. The one problem with the graphics I noticed was in the areana itself. You have very 
 badly frame by frame movement of the Rabbids in the audience that kind of stands out as bad, but 
 you don't spend enough time seeing this to damage the game. When they do show close ups this problem 
 is no problem as they show fully rendered Rabbids with weapons or whatever that may be off the 
 wall.
  
  VALUE:
  
  Rayman Raving Rabbids is a solid well thought out package. You can tell just by checking out some 
 of the insane style minigames the developers had fun making this title. It really was made with 
 the idea of entertaining people.
  
  I can't think of anyother game that delivers a presentation like this wrapped around minigames 
 that keeps you entertained. One of the most stick out features is the fact you don't have to play 
 the game to enjoy it. Even when I am in another room and I hear these Rabbids screaming it brings 
 a slight laugh from me when I hear their responses to getting hit with plungers and so forth.
 
  
  This game really sets a new bar for minigame compilations and actually can make other games before 
 it look lazy. The theme in this game stays very consistent. The theme is there is no point to anything 
 that happens and its done very well. You will play some of your most memorable off the wall games 
 here and will want to come back for more.
  
  CONCLUSION:
  
  Rayman is a nice original IP title to hit the Wii first. Its quirky sense of humor and outstanding 
 use of the Wii Remote will keep you going. If your not a mini game fan you may not like this title. 
 Short dose sessions help this game shine. Rather your playing or watching you are sure to have 
 a good laugh at the very least.
  
  Considering it is a good game, fun to play, reinvents the genre in regards to personality it deserves 
 a high score. However I can't over look a couple of major problems with a couple of mini games 
 (like 3 out of 70) , even though there is some problem with a couple it is possible to beat them 
 with practice.
  
  I strongly recommend playing this game regardless of rather your a fan of the series or genre, 
 it just might surprise you. Rayman Raving Rabbids gets a plunger stuck to the face with a 9 out 
 of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonstrative1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 12, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  This game demonstrates more than anything that the Wii is just flat-out a FUN console. Although 
 it's being released on other platforms, after playing through the Wii version you'll be convinced 
 that it's the only way to fly.
  
  The premise of the game is stupidly simple; Rayman gets kidnapped by Rabbids and, after each day 
 of trials, is rewarded a plunger (?) . Rayman soon realizes that he can use his rewards to escape 
 from his cell. A flimsy premise, at best, that delivers the most solid gameplay I've ever seen. 
 There's a pretty wide variety of mini games that you have to play through, and even though some 
 are rehashed throughout, I found that they became games I looked forward to playing in every day 
 of trials rather than groaning Ugh, another one of these. . . I think the best classification of 
 the complexity of these games is right in between Warioware and Mario Party; most of the games 
 are pretty one-dimensional but still require a degree of explanation due to the unorthodox controls.
 
  
  I'm also a huge fan of the visual style. It's clear that they weren't shooting for something with 
 a ton of detail, but they get characters that are almost hilarious just to look at in addition 
 to the degree of antialiasing and smooth edges they got as a result.
  
  The sound also sets the game apart. The Rabbids and their terrifyingly funny BAAAWWWWW noise makes 
 me laugh every time I sit down to play. The sounds within the minigames themselves also match up 
 well with what's happening on-screen, and the music suits the mood well.
  
  All-in-all, I'd chalk this game up to a must-have title for the Wii. Too fun to miss! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Javrixx
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 11, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  A quick background:
  
  I bought monkey ball for multiplayer fun. It turned out to be a huge dud and people were saying 
 this is much better. So I traded it in for this. Really glad I did...
  
  The multiplayer is pretty fun, but the games get repetative with the movements after awhile. We 
 still find ourselves playing Wii Sports when my friends come over. But this game is still really 
 fun and if you want to add some variety for your parties, this won't hurt.
  
  The singleplayer is the same as multiplayer. You can't play the multiplayer games without beating 
 them first by yourself in singleplayer. I had a lot of fun singleplayer. There were a few games 
 that aren't fun at all, but only like 2-3 at the most and even then they weren't that bad/hard 
 to beat.
  
  The dancing games are by far the funnest to play. Wish they had more of them and a bigger variety.
 
  
  The bottom line. Get this is you're looking for a multiplayer (party) game to play with friends. 
 You'll be very dissapointed if you're looking for any type of story and single player only. I would 
 also wait until it comes down in price, $30ish or so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpowerfull
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 10, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Rayman was fun, but it was really short and a bit too easy. It has pretty good multiplayer, which 
 is good, but it's not really worth the money I paid for it. The graphics were extremeley terrible. 
 The crowed wasn't too big to create and was still in 2-3 frame, 2D animations. The area, especially 
 in the hallway before your prison cell, has really bad texture quality which is noticable. This 
 game should only be rented and never bought. The mini games repeated themselves ALOT. Usually 2-3 
 times average, and maybe 12 or so for the dancing one. That wouldn't be too bad, but considering 
 there's only 70 trials total, it gets pretty repetative. And the FPS boss fights are way too easy, 
 but quite comical. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shiselstix
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 9, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Rayman raving rabbids is short lived within most of its game play. Buying it as my first wii game 
 was influenced through the now mis-leading GS reviews and passing zelda as im not a console rpg-ish 
 story gamer (PC is home for the rpg) . After playing wii sports and wii play i got my head into 
 rayman and very surprised on the length casually playing it over the weekend i finished it....
 
  
  This game isnt that good in my opinion but maybe i have to relive the classic moments again to 
 feel the vibe again. It has used alot of new ways to use the wiimote which did surprise me. The 
 graphics arent all the great, some animation objects seem to be overstretched and blurred with 
 large pixels but are resonable with their movements and locations with the screen. And the sounds 
 are intuitive in ONE game using the wiimotes speaker to navigate around a bunny infested field 
 yet bad quality. The good things about it is... the minigames are enjoyable and to be revisited 
 with friends, some of the humour is quite random and enjoyable Beef Stew , the controls are well 
 used and finally I really felt really into some of the minigames which i will return too. Overall 
 the game isnt worth the AUD$99 and regret it on ocassions, but then again it is another game to 
 the wii collection and revisited again to show of my bunny dancing skills. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tim-
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 9, 2006 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Rayman raving rabbids is short lived within most of its game play. Buying it as my first wii game 
 was influenced through the now mis-leading GS reviews and passing zelda as im not a console rpg-ish 
 story gamer (PC is home for the rpg) . After playing wii sports and wii play i got my head into 
 rayman and very surprised on the length casually playing it over the weekend i finished it....
 
  
  This game isnt that good in my opinion but maybe i have to relive the classic moments again to 
 feel the vibe again. It has used alot of new ways to use the wiimote which did surprise me. The 
 graphics arent all the great, some animation objects seem to be overstretched and blurred with 
 large pixels but are resonable with their movements and locations with the screen. And the sounds 
 are intuitive in ONE game using the wiimotes speaker to navigate around a bunny infested field 
 yet bad quality. The good things about it is... the minigames are enjoyable and to be revisited 
 with friends, some of the humour is quite random and enjoyable Beef Stew , the controls are well 
 used and finally I really felt really into some of the minigames which i will return too. Overall 
 the game isnt worth the AUD$99 and regret it on ocassions, but then again it is another game to 
 the wii collection and revisited again to show of my bunny dancing skills. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smit5334
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 9, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  I always saw the Wii as a party system. RRR proves it.
  
  There are tons of games each varied enough to keep it fun as heck and a riot.
  
  When you are 
 playing, you have to keep focused on the game. Everyone else in the room is laughing like crazy 
 at the silly antics of the screaming rabbits.
  
  Its made up of mini games. You can keep trying each one until you beat it. After you have beated 
 all four, the boss game becomes available. After this, you start the next day, with 4 more mini-games.
 
  
  Mini games are insane. From the speed milking a cow (done by moving the nunchuck and remote alternatingly 
 up and down) to the dancing ones. Dancing games are mixed in so that one of the four minigames 
 are one of these. They are alot of fun and look great.
  
  You just can't stop playing and you don't want to share.
  
  The graphics are decent but not 
 great. They fit.
  
  The controls are perfect and responsive.
  
  I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids
  1 player Story Mode
  1-4 players Score Mode
  Developed/Published by Ubisoft
  Rated E (Everyone)
  
  Pros:
  + Over 70 mini games
  + 
 Colorful/ smooth graphics
  + Score Mode allows you to replay mini-games after you beat the game as well as unlock additional 
 bonus content such as videos and artwork.
  + Rabbids add a good amount of humor to the game which makes it one of the more charming Wii games
 
  + Mini-games use the Wiimote and attachment well
  + Dancing levels and Shooting levels are the real meat of the game and are typically a lot more 
 involving and enjoyable than the rest of the mini-games.
  + Multiplayer (either simultaneous or turn) for all the mini-games in Score Mode (up to four players) .
 
  + Instructions are presented before each game with a Rabbid actually displaying how to use the 
 remote (awesome presentation)
  
  Cons:
  - Plot is almost non-existent
  - Some Mini-games seem supplementary and don't really add much to the depth of the game
  - This 
 game could have existed on its own without including Rayman. - In Score Mode you only collect more 
 points (which you need to unlock bonus content) if you beat a high score. The high scores in the 
 game are simply outrageously hard to beat and practically require you to play a perfect game to 
 get the top score. You should get some points for every time you play, not just when you beat a 
 high score.
  
  Final Comments: Rayman Raving Rabbids is an enjoyable game to play for a night with friends because 
 of its short mini-games. It unfortunately is completely void of any real story in story mode which 
 left me a little dissappointed. Particularly when there were so many great video promos for this 
 game of Rabbids doing just the craziest things. It would have been better had such videos been 
 incorporated into the game in some way rather than just as bonus content. In some ways I wonder 
 if the developer had too much fun making this game. However, the game is still a lot of fun to 
 play, particularly the dancing levels and the shooting levels are very well made and enjoyable. 
 Rayman Raving Rabbids is a great game to play though when you need a break from games like Zelda 
 or just need a pick up and play game for a few minutes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 8, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  In the race to prove the flexibility of the Wiis control scheme is Rayman Raving Rabbids, an eclectic 
 and bizarre mixture of minigames that use the Wii remote and Nunchuck attachment in a variety of 
 ways. Rayman makes a great first impression as you wave around your controllers like some sort 
 of crazy person, but the basic control mechanics in the games begin to overlap in relatively short 
 order. The end result is a good game thats fun in short bursts, but at the same time, you probably 
 wont be coming back to this one after blowing through the single player.
  
  Raving Rabbids begins with an idyllic picnic between Rayman and his weird frog-looking friends, 
 the globox. However, the mood is quickly spoiled by the Rabbids, the goofy rabbit-like supporting 
 cast, who burrow up through the ground and capture Rayman and all of his buddies. Cut to a Rabbid 
 coliseum, where our limbless hero is forced to participate in a series of games to ultimately win 
 his freedom and destroy the Rabbid threat.
  
  This boils down to a whopping seventy different minigames youll play using the Nunchuck and Wii 
 remote, all of which involve the Rabbids in one way or another. Youll be tackling these games 
 in sets of four, and youll need to complete at least three to move on to the fifth boss stage. 
 Activities range from plucking worms out a Rabbids rancid teeth to directing a blindfolded Rabbid 
 into rakes and other hazards by shaking bells to tossing cows on chains. There are also batches 
 of games that require you to tap the controllers to the beat as you hit the dance floor with a 
 team of Rabbids. Finally, the boss stage is either an on-rails shooter level akin to Segas House 
 of the Dead games or a race of some kind. All of the minigames share the common thread of being 
 completely bizarre, and the hilarity of the Rabbid cast lends them a good deal of charm.
  
  At their best, the games present a wonderfully weird sense of style in addition to making great 
 uses of the Wii Remote and Nunchuck attachment. One particularly well-crafted game has Rayman in 
 a Rabbid soccer stadium. First, you alternately pump the two controllers to take a run at the ball, 
 press A to boot the rabid steadying the ball, and then point the remote at the screen to aim 
 your shot at the net. Other games have you using the A button and B trigger to pluck up worms, 
 which feels like a tangible emulation of gripping with your fingers. Most of the controls are easy, 
 precise, and intuitive, and theyre easy to pick up immediately.
  
  Unfortunately, there are some games that feel sloppy with the Wiis control scheme. In particular, 
 games that require you to place your remote at different depths (the Z-axis) feel imprecise and 
 finicky, and it can be difficult to get the movement to register. Youll also notice that a lot 
 of games begin to overlap control mechanics fairly early on. For example, a good six or seven of 
 the minigames requires you to use the pumping gesture to run as described in the soccer game. This 
 makes the game feel more stale at times than it probably should.
  
  In addition, many games just feel too simple. Sure, the games are meant to be easy to pick up and 
 play, but most are so one-dimensional that you probably wont want to play through them again once 
 youve finished them. It also doesnt leave much of a difficulty level. Youll need to play some 
 of the games several times before besting them, but these are mostly the games that test your endurance 
 rather than your skill (for example, having to constantly pump the Nunchuck up and down for minutes 
 at a time to pressurize a carrot-juice gun for use against the Rabbids) .
  
  Rayman Raving Rabbids has the presentation quality of your typical Gamecube title, and while its 
 a little disappointing that the game doesnt look a bit cleaner, the style of the game still shines 
 through nicely. The limbless Rayman is still an appealing lead character, but its the Rabbids 
  with their crazed stares and so-ugly-that-theyre-cute visages, that really steal the show here. 
 In addition to generally running around screaming like a bunch of madmen, the Rabbids also sport 
 a lot of unique costumes and looks as you progress through the minigames  like Sam Fischer (of 
 Splinter Cell) style stealth suits  which helps keep the game feeling fresh. However, theres 
 certainly room for improvement on a technical level. Although the game earns points for supporting 
 widescreen displays and progressive scan resolutions, the texture work is a touch blurry overall. 
 Some other irksome instances stick out; in the Rabbid coliseum where you choose which games to 
 play, for example, the Rabbids in the stands are mere two-dimensional cutouts of their character 
 models. Youll see them jerking around with a handful of animated frames.
  
  The audio work fares marginally better, with some good (but underused) orchestrated music and excellent 
 ambient crowd and environmental effects adding atmosphere to the proceedings. The whacked-out battle 
 cries of the Rabbids also stick out as particularly memorable. The keynote of the sound design 
 has got to be the Rabbid renditions of songs like Girls Just Wanna Have Fun and LaBamba in 
 the dance minigames, which is absolutely as insane as it sounds.
  
  All told, the weird style of Rayman Raving Rabbids is the best thing about it. The gameplay equates 
 to simple and varied uses of the Wii controllers and is a good way to get a feel for using the 
 system. At the same time, though, the games begin to feel similar more quickly than you might like, 
 and with its distinct lack of a difficulty level, it wont be long until youve finished the single-player 
 and grown bored with the rather lackluster multiplayer (which reworks some of the minigames for 
 multiple players) . For most, a rental period is all youll need to absorb the best of what Raving 
 Rabbids has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gavin0330
Rating: 6.4
Date: Dec 8, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids is a launch game for the Nintendo Wii. The series has gone from a platformer 
 to a collection of mini games in the latest version. While this seems perfect for the motion control, 
 it leaves you without much of a story and just doesn't feel like a complete game.
  
  Rayman is imprisoned by these raving rabbids and each day you must play 5 different mini games 
 to advance to the next day. While some of these mini games are unique and control well, others 
 simply do not. The music mini game is one of the highlights but just feels too repetitive when 
 its constantly reused throughout the story mode. The final mini game of each day is usually a first 
 person shooter type game where you are on rails throughout the level and must shoot the rabbids 
 with your plunger. There is some fun to be had throughout the game but the repetition of the games 
 gets old fast.
  
  The graphics look about like I would expect a Gamecube version to look. They are nothing spectacular 
 and really seem dated in some parts. The control on most of the mini games is fine. Some of them 
 will take multiple tries but don't seem too difficult. The control on the flying games where you 
 turn the remote like you are turning a key can be frustrating. In the end this is no more than 
 an average game. Without much of a story and the repetitive gameplay Rayman Raving Rabbids just 
 feels unpolished and not worth more than a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyveil
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids has it's moments. Some of the minigames are great fun the first time you 
 play them and the game is chock-full of humor. The multiplayer aspect of this game though, which 
 some may be looking at this game for specifically, is lacking. You're better off unlocking the 
 entire game before playing with friends, which fortunately isn't too difficult. However, some of 
 the minigames just aren't worth going back to. A large portion of the minigames can only be played 
 one player at a time, pretty much killing the multiplayer aspect for me personally. However, if 
 you enjoy this sort of thing (alternating with players to see who can beat the high score) then 
 this won't be a negative for you.
  
  If there's any portion of the game you don't like, unfortunately you'll probably have to do it 
 over and over again. I didn't like the rail portions of the game, and I had to do 8+ iterations 
 of it beat the game, I found them too easy. Another minigame - dancing with the Rabbids, is fun 
 the first time but starts to lose it's appeal by the 15th song. The songs for this minigame seemed 
 rather uninspiring to me also. By the time you get up to the highest levels the Rabbids seem to 
 drop at random order and have no relation to the music or rhythym being played. Being a fan of 
 Guitar Hero makes this minigame for me even more disappointing.
  
  If you can over look its flaws; a mediocre single-player mode, limited multiplayer support, and 
 numerous throw-away minigames, then Rayman Raving Rabbids can be a really fun game. If not, give 
 it a rent or wait for the price to drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knoxer
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 7, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbis puts you into a world with cute and cuddly yet loud and freaky bunnies. You 
 play as Rayman and while having a picnic with some of your friends the bunnies hop out of the ground 
 and steal your frog-like friends. You are then taken away to a arena and forced to play the rabbids 
 mini-games. The main game is you getting to play 4 mini-games each day your in the arena and then 
 unlock a new game after winning 3/4 games. Afterwards you are thrown back into the jail cell with 
 your prize. When in your cell Rayman can choose a theme song for his cell by the songs you can 
 unlock during the single player mode. He can also change his look as well, but only 4 costumes 
 are available from the start. Rayman's mini games are fun and really entertaining, but if you plan 
 on buying this you may want to spend and hour or two in the single-player mode before you call 
 your friends over to play. You start off with no mini-games unlocked and to play them in the multiplayer 
 mode you need to beat them in single first. A downer but you will have fun time getting the games 
 unlocked. The Wii's motion censor capability's come in great with this game, either if you are 
 tossing a cow having bunnies drink carrot juice or just dancing you will have the time of your 
 life with the Wiimote.
  
  Now some bad things are that some times the censor wont pickup some of the movements you make either 
 making things much much harder or causing you to loose the game entirely. Also a few of the mini-games 
 will ware you out because the workouts often have you moving for about 2 minutes straight and not 
 being able to rest. Well I know what some of you are thinking Oh well anyone can do that. It won't 
 make me tired. Well trying to stay on track with the game and moving and thinking at the same time 
 really can but a strain on you, luckily if you are worn out and need to take a break in the game 
 you can pause during the mini-games.
  
  Anyway to rap things up Rayman Raving Rabbids is a great party game to hold us over until something 
 like Wairo ware shows its face on the Wii, if you ask me I'd say buy it, you will have fun and 
 your friends will too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willawallo
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 7, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  i loved this game from start to finish the mini games are just plain fun... the mini games are 
 very intuitve with the wii remote and are very fun at the same time. You start off the game in 
 a jail cell and there is a window.. thats the exit to freedom so to get to the window you have to 
 do fun and challenging mini games and every single time you beat the 5 stages you will get a plunger 
 and rayman puts it against the wall and climbs all the ones you earn to get to the window. The 
 mini games are very cool in many ways such as, you have to throw a cow so you swing the wii remote 
 and let go of the B button and the cow goes flying.. that is one of the many mini games there are.. 
 The only thing i didnt like about this game was the ending i didnt seem to understand it lol.. 
 So that is my review i love this game i am giving it an 8.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crxhybrid85
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 6, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Rayman is an easy to pick up and play, very fun game. It's not an epic quest like Zelda, or Oblivion, 
 it doesn't have top notch graphics or anything else really flashy. It is, however a great all around 
 game that is a blast to play. Reading the instructions is a moot point, as before every mini game 
 it tells you the instructions on screen.
  
  The colors in this game are very nice and add alot to the visual presentation, and the sound is 
 top notch on my 5.1 system. It's a perfect family game too, my six year old son is having a blast 
 with this game although it's a little bit harder for him than me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spixter534
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 5, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  The mini games are fun and simple. You will be playing four mini games a day. In the game a day 
 consists of playing four mini games and a bonus game. Upon completion of each day you will be tossed 
 back in your prison cell (part of the storyline) to enjoy things you have won (music, costumes, 
 and plungers) . It takes the third day to find out what the plungers are for. You get one plunger 
 for completing each day. When tossed in your cell you can enjoy those things or jump back into 
 another round.
  
  This game is addictive. You just have to play the dance/ rhythm mini game. Im glad you get to 
 play this one several times and each one is set to fun pop music.
  
  The controls are easy to learn. The game-play is simple but not so easy that you breeze through 
 each mini game on the first attempt. Repeated attempts will be needed with some of these games 
 but believe me, you will want to play them again.
  
  The game has simple and great game-play and has a funny storyline with the crazy rabbits. Watching 
 them is hilarious. This game will not disappoint. The controls work very well and this was a great 
 launch game. Dont pass this one by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnlivedPhalanx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 4, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  The Rayman series of games has always been known for the outstanding platforming mechanics that 
 each game brings time and time again. Unfortunately, Rayman Raving Rabbids doesnt follow up on 
 much of anything Rayman. Instead it takes a WarioWare esque approach on the Wii to deliver party 
 fun for the entire room.
  
  One of the first things that really stands out with Raving Rabbids that sets it apart from WarioWare 
 or similar games are these cutesy rabbit things that carries as a motif through the entire game. 
 These rabbids as they are called, are nothing more than comic relief, as they dont carry any story 
 thats worth mentioning.
  
  What little story there seems to be is pretty pathetic and feels under-developed. Basically Rayman 
 is having a picnic with some creatures and gets abducted by rabbids and thrown into a stadium. 
 Dont say I didnt warn you the story was pathetic, I just summed it up in a single sentence.
 
  
  Once you are into the stadium, dont expect a single player adventure. There is none. Instead youll 
 play sequentially through all 70 of the games minigames. You need to complete 3 of the 4 offered 
 to you in order to advance to the plunger round in which youll either race a hog or have a rabbid 
 shoot-out. Once you complete these games, youll be thrown back into your cell where you can replay 
 games youve already played or change your Rayman outfit. Then you repeat the above until you play 
 all the games, then youre done with the single-player. Its not even worth calling it single-player.
 
  
  One of the things that Rayman Raving Rabbids really nailed was all the things you could do with 
 the Wiimote. The variety of minigames available and unique uses of the Wiimote makes for interesting, 
 if not hilarious, parties. It really feels like the game was geared towards many people playing 
 at once, luckily so too, because it really excels there.
  
  Speaking of minigames, Raving Rabbids has 70 well rounded and (sometimes) challenging games for 
 either one player or the entire group. Mixed into throwing cows, which requires you to swing the 
 Wiimote, is simple games like a DDR style music game where you shake the Wiimote and Nunchuck to 
 the beat of some random music (apparently good music is hard to find in France.) I really cant 
 stress how fun some of these games are, youll be coming back to some of them for a long time to 
 come. The variety is unprecedented and youll appreciate that after you blow through the single 
 player campaign.
  
  There werent any noticeable blemishes on this game from an aesthetic standpoint either, which 
 is lucky since most of the launch titles have had some sorts of graphical issues one way or another. 
 One thing did stand out however; Raving Rabbids only supports 4:3 displays so my widescreen HDTV 
 had to apply 16:9 formatting on it to avoid large bars on either side to retain the aspect ratio. 
 Also, some cinematics, including the opening with the Ubisoft logo have issues with the audio resulting 
 in loud popping static on surround sets, stereo was less noticeable but still present static sounds.
 
  
  Overall I think what were seeing with Rayman Raving Rabbids is an average party game with no real 
 Rayman qualities to it whatsoever, actually the name is a complete misnomer (and ultimately suckered 
 me into buying it) . The worst letdown is that its so short youll be done with it in only a couple 
 plays without the help of any marathon gaming. Unfortunate since the game costs a chunk of change 
 that youll be missing, Id wait for a bargain re-sale of this one. Just because it was short and 
 only a party game doesnt mean the game isnt worth a look (at the very least a rental) because 
 the comedy is great, and so is the replay value. Youll still be playing this one at parties for 
 the better half of 2007, just dont expect to play alone for too long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdmpastor
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 4, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  The mini games are fun and simple. You will be playing four mini games a day. In the game a day 
 consists of playing four mini games and a bonus game. Upon completion of each day you will be tossed 
 back in your prison cell (part of the storyline) to enjoy things you have won (music, costumes, 
 and plungers) . It takes the third day to find out what the plungers are for. You get one plunger 
 for completing each day. When tossed in your cell you can enjoy those things or jump back into 
 another round.
  
  This game is addictive. You just have to play the dance/ rhythm mini game. Im glad you get to 
 play this one several times and each one is set to fun pop music.
  
  The controls are easy to learn. The game-play is simple but not so easy that you breeze through 
 each mini game on the first attempt. Repeated attempts will be needed with some of these games 
 but believe me, you will want to play them again.
  
  The game has simple and great game-play and has a funny storyline with the crazy rabbits. Watching 
 them is hilarious. This game will not disappoint. The controls work very well and this was a great 
 launch game. Dont pass this one by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rkalla
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 4, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  This is not a real game, so don't expect one. This is a collection of really about 25 mini games, 
 when I say mini, I mean mini. Like 1-3minutes each, and there are rehashed versions of each one 
 about 2-3x each, so as far as different games go, not too many.
  
  I thought this would be a fun game to introduce the non gamers with, honestly Wii sports is a much 
 better tool for this. This game is hard to have fun with because you are sort of standing there 
 going What the hell did I just pay $56 for? and after several hours with it, I'm still trying to 
 figure out the answer to that.
  
  If you are only looking for party games to play when you are drinking with friends, this is perfect 
 for that. But if you are looking for the next game to buy after passing Zelda, don't look here, 
 that's not what this game is for. I'd almost encourage you to buy Red Steel (as poor as the reviews 
 were) over this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LasPlagasHope
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 3, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  What can wii say about these raving rabbids? Well lots of things in fact. This was a perfect launch 
 title for the wii because it really shows a multitude of things the wii mote can do and for the 
 most part in this game it does it very well. These games are fun but some a little lengthy because 
 you have to wait you turn for some of the games because these are mini games not micro games but 
 whether you're filling goggles full of carrot juice of tossing a cow or dancing to girls just wanna 
 have fun it's a very wacky experience. The graphics look sleek for the most part and who ever designed 
 these bunnies was very talented because they managed to make the cute but very evil at the same 
 time. And the use of the controller is taken advantage of in almost every way you will be swinging 
 your arms around ect. looking like a loser unless you're doing it with friends! But that Brings 
 me to one of the downsides of the there is no multi player right out of the box you have to beat 
 a level before it can be played with more than one person. Which isn't so bad but as a launch tittle 
 for a completely new way to play games your friends will wanna join in right away and thats just 
 not the case. But after you do unlock a few games there is really nothing more fun then having 
 4 people play this game all at once. It's a blast
  
  So if you're picking more than one game when you pick up your new Wii this game is a must have! 
 Due to how it shows how fun the wii really is other wise get Zelda! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustPlainLucas
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 2, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about Rayman Raving Rabbids, I got really got excited. I haven't played a good 
 Rayman platformer in such a long time... Then I found out what RRR was really going to be like; 
 a collection of mini-games. My interest started waning. I wanted a platformer, dammit! Then I read 
 a preview and learned just how entertaining it would be, and that it would make excellent use of 
 the Wii's controllers. Also, the name Michel Ancel was mentioned. I became hooked.
  
  The structure of Rayman Raving Rabbids is about as simple as simple can get. The game's divided 
 into 15 days. Each day, Rayman is thrown into an arena with five doors. Four dours are normal mini-games 
 and the door in the middle opens after three of those mini-games are finished. If you finish all 
 four tasks in a day, you'll unlock new outfits or songs. The middle doors lead to the day's end 
 games, and the majority of them are first-person rail shooter stages that has Rayman toting a plunger 
 pistol and a hookshot that grabs bunnies to use as bunny shields and bunny ammo. Other times, those 
 end games are short warthog races that has you cracking your remote as a whip to get a speed burst 
 out of the oversized pigs.
  
  There's a great deal of variety amongst the mini-games. Some of them are very simple, such as drawing 
 an outline of food to feed bunnies, while others are pretty intesive, such as pumping the nunchuck 
 rapidly up and down to keep a constant stream of carrot juice flowing to drown bunnies by filling 
 up their snorkling goggles. Yes, it sounds pretty outrageous, and for the most part, the mini-games 
 are very satisfying. A lot of them elicit a good amount of laughter. One of my favorites has you 
 slapping bunnies that are singing off key. You zoom in on random bunnies in the choir trying to 
 find the culprit, and if you target one that's close to the offender, he'll rat on him by pointing 
 him out. Sadly, a few of the mini-games are rather bland, and after several days, the mini-games 
 begin to repeat themselves with more difficult variations.
  
  The best mini-games would have to be the rhythm games. Bunnies come from the left and the right 
 and you have to move your corresponding controllers in time to when the bunnies pass over a column. 
 There's a bar that moves to the right if you're doing good, and to the left when you're doing bad. 
 your object is to keep it to the right - in the green - before a pair of yellow bunnies arrives. 
 These games feature a few licensed songs, such as Girls Just Want to Have Fun, La Bamba, and Naughty 
 by Nature's classic hit Hip Hop Hooray. The disappointing thing about this is there are only so 
 many songs before they start to repeat themselves.
  
  Graphically, this could be the best looking Wii launch game out. The textures are pretty sharp 
 for the system, and everything's modeled pretty well. The only time you see the system really being 
 stressed is when the camera pans out of the arena showing all the bunnies cheering Rayman on. The 
 animation just becomes extremely choppy with a frame rate at about.... 5 at its worst.
  
  The real attraction of this game is the Raving Rabbids. These psychotic and lunatic bunnies are 
 violent towards Rayman, and are violent amongst themselves. They're both creepy looking and adorable, 
 and they have a yell that is just side-splitting hilarious. These guys add so much humor to the 
 game, it's just impossible to not love them. They sing. They dance. They whack each other with 
 spiked mallets. They're raving, I tell you! The one thing that would have benefited RRR a lot, 
 though, was to have a fleshed out story. It doesn't really need to be fleshed out per se, but there 
 could have been a lot more to it than there is right now, which is pretty much nothing. You're 
 on a picnic when you're abucted by a big black bear-ish creature and then thrown into a prison 
 cell. When you knock on the door, the bear grabs you and tosses you into the center of the arena 
 to entertain an audience of bunnies by completing the day's set of tasks. At the end of each day, 
 you're awarded a plunger, which Rayman then sticks to the wall becoming a rung. Once he has enough 
 plungers, he climbs to a window and jumps to freedom. That's pretty much it for the story. I had 
 a blast playing this game. Aside from a few lame mini-games, several mini-games being recycled 
 and a lack of a story, this turned out to be my favorite launch game for the Wii (yes, beating 
 out Zelda) . The game could also have used a multi-player option, but seeing as how launch games 
 almost always release missing features, it's understandable. If you really want to see what the 
 Wii was made for, this is a definate must-buy for you. And please, if you're interest in playing 
 it, purchase it and support Michel Ancel. It would be nice to see a sequel for this game, and we 
 all know what happened with Beyond Good and Evil. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quiksilver022
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 1, 2006 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids is hands-down the second-best launch title, as it utilizes the Wiimote to 
 the max, which enhances the gameplay and really gets you going. But what really works with Rayman 
 is the hilarious Rabbids; a simple concept, such as aiming with the Wiimote and tapping A, is made 
 all the better by being enhanced with some outlandish situation. For example, there are four washrooms, 
 and in each washroom a Rabbid is going poop. The doors blow open, and you need to close the door 
 before the Rabbids get too embarassed, and decide to shoot you. Doesn't make sense? Of course it 
 doesn't! It's not supposed to! The graphics are great (for the Wii) boasting beautiful and vibrant 
 colors, with well-rounded graphics and detailed characters. The environments are also very attractive. 
 The gameplay itself is downright awesome, whether you're by yourself, with a buddy, or the family-EVERYONE 
 will enjoy Rayman! It's got great sound, with some hilarious cover tracks, including a rendition 
 of 'Girls Just Wanna Have Fun'. It's a bit short overall, which some may not appreciate, but the 
 replay value is superb. If you liked Mario Party, and enjoy pick-up-and-play type games, you'll 
 have a blast with Rayman! Easily one of my favorite games, not only on Wii, but ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spike3oOo
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 8, 2008 1:38 am PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids is not like your average Rayman game. This is not a platformer, it is a mini 
 game/party game in the vain of Warioware, or Feel the Magic. The adorable little Rabbits are easyly 
 some of the cutest funniest charecters in recent years. They make you smile each time they appear 
 in the whacky scenes. Each of the mini games have you controling your personal rayman that you 
 get to customize with unquie outfits and hair styles and what not. The funnest mini games would 
 deff have to be the Shooting ones, usually found at the end of each act/chapter, and then the Dancing 
 mini games which basically is easy to control but a challenge to master. Some mini games control 
 kinda wonky, and the overall game took me about 6 hours to complete 100%, I also found the game 
 to be quite on the easy side, and would of liked to have a bit more challenge.
  
  And on top of that the games multyplayer doesnt allow for use of 2 controlers on all of the mini 
 games, some have you switching off 1 control which is puzzling. But all and all its an average 
 game, thats more of a gimick than an actual game. It would of been nice to have an actual Rayman 
 platformer, and throw in the mini games as unlockables/multyplayer. 
  
  However I n the end when its all said and done Rayman Raving Rabbids still maneges to impress simply 
 because you get totally hooked on some of the mini games, and found myself strangly attachted to 
 this games whacky sense of humor, wicked style and addicting gameplay despite its quirks I had 
 a blast with Rayman and consider it one of the best uses of the Wiimote, despite the fact that 
 the game is a huge gimmick, its an extremly fun gimmick that works! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_of_Dark
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 29, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  Rayman has always been a favorite character of mine because he is strange and interesting at the 
 same time. No one can deny that Rayman 2: The Great Escape is the best one, but this one drives 
 a close second. This is not an adventure game, this is like Warioware with Bunnies. The Rabbids 
 are fantastically animated and are really really funny to shoot at in the first person shooter 
 plunger levels. Yes, I said Plunger. Basically, Rayman uses the plungers he gains from completing 
 tiers of minigames to try and escape from his imprisonment with the bunnies. Minigames are super 
 fun and weird. Anyone who would enjoy stupid humor is in for a treat. The graphics are ok, although 
 I did experience some glitiches, very few though. There are lots of cool unlockables, Costumes 
 were my favorite since there are so many. Over all, Rayman Raving Rabbids is a fun, must-have for 
 any gamer this holiday season, other than Zelda of course ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PokerStar2011
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  What can you say about this game. This is truely the oddest game i have ever played. But thats 
 a good thing. Rayman Raving Rabbids is basicly Rayman Party. Its just like Mario Party, but better 
 and more unique. The single player is pretty short. It took me about 8 hours to beat. But with 
 most party games the fun is in the multiplayer. If you have 4 remotes and 4 nunchucks and 4 or 
 more friends, you need to get this game. The creaters worked really well with the controller. Pretty 
 much every game uses the new wii tech, which is great. The graphics are ok-good. The sound is truely 
 great. The bunnies have the funniest voices and screams i have ever heard. This game is the funniest 
 game i have ever played also. Alot of the video games will have you laughing even after you have 
 already played it. I personality like bunnies cant play soccer where you kick the bunny instead 
 of the ball. It cracks me up everytime. The value and titl are good if you have friends. If you 
 dont like multiplayer, you problably should not get this game. But if you have alot of friendfs 
 and love multiplayer then this is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rykh
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 27, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  I found this game quite amusing and fun to play. It reminds me of an arcade shooter, marioparty, 
 and dance dance revolution all in one game. It has something for everyone to enjoy. I really liked 
 the shooting and dancing aspect of this game. I suggest this game for anyone who likes to play 
 along with firends or enjoys a great party game. It is easy for anyone with limited skills in gaming 
 all the way to the experienced veteran. I say this is a great start for the wii. Gamespots score 
 of 8.0 is borderline for a great game, I feel its a little higher but their review is spot on. 
 Go out and get this game and enjoy you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SephirothSyZtem
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2006 2:37 am PT
Review:  Rayman has seen a few changes in this New game of his. Lets start off by saying that rayman raving 
 rabbis was indeed supposed to have been a full fledged platforming game. When ubi-soft got there 
 wii dev kits in they just knew that this wasent going to work and they had little time to make 
 this game for the system launch.
  
  Solution you ask? a mario party esc title that tops them all.
  
  Rayman raving rabbis is a 
 success as a game in whole becuase of so many ways that it lets you use the wii-mote. Ive played 
 a few titles for the wii and most all of them you can cheat yourself some-way by swinging the wii-mote 
 really lightly or in a small swing really quick. This is not the case for rayman as it was in wii-sports. 
 Pre-pare to sweat in rayman. This game can become very tiering. But fear not becuase all your work 
 is paid off by 70 mini-games and a pretty neat story.... untill the ending that is. I dont want 
 to spoil anything so youll just have to find that out youself.
  
  Speaking in terms of rayman graphics there truly not to bad. You can indeed tell that this is not 
 a gamecube game. The graphics are that tiny step up that the wii is.
  
  A problem i had with rayman raving rabbis though would be that after the 3rd or 4th stages, the 
 mini-games start to repeat themselfs and harder difficulties, and yes they count into the 70 minigames 
 that are in this game.
  
  That truly is the biggest problem with this game is that its over to short. I can see a hardcore 
 gamer or just a rayman fan blowing through this game in about 5 hours or so. Very short. Sure after 
 you beat the game you can play all the minigames you unlocked with a buddy in 2 player mode and 
 yes it truly does add some re-play vaule 2 this title. But with so little mini-games even this 
 mode can become tiering.
  
  All the minigames are well thought out exceapt for this one that uses the wii-motes craptastic 
 speaker. The game is basicly broken.... The Wii-mote speaker just doesnt work on it most of the 
 time therefore resulting in your just playing a game of guess where to go and not die.
  
  The minigames start out Very easy and work there way up to the point to where you just mght die 
 about 12 times on each before you pass them. There is a huge Drastic change in the difficultie 
 throughout the gamem A mode to set it on hard, insane, medium, easy, and so on is missed in this 
 game. Truly ts not needed but it would have been nice.
  
  This game has a few licensed songs scattered throughout its dance minigames that go very well with 
 it. From girls just want to have fun to a song of heavy metal with a rabbid the dance mini-games 
 are catchy to those watching you play, and just fun for the person playing.
  
  Rayman overall is one of those launch titles that could have just bomshelled due to the time fram 
 that it had. Thankfully the good people over at ubi-montpellie studios really did try to make this 
 a great launch title, and for the most part it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oceanshoreview
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 20, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Rayman: Raving Rabbids is completely unlike any of the other games with the Rayman name. This game 
 has a lot more in common with Mario Party without having any game board at all.
  
  This game is a collection of mini-games all thrown together by what you might call a story line. 
 There really is no dialogue but basically you were caught by the Rabbids while you were out at 
 a picnic with your frog buddies or something and now you must complete arena challenges for them. 
 Nothing special, but I suppose a decent premise for the type of game here. This stuff doesn't really 
 matter though, its all about the mini-games of which there are plenty.
  
  There are I think about 50 different games that will require you to do a number of tasks involving 
 the Wii Remote and Nunchuck. Some are as simply as a first person arcade style shooter in which 
 you are moved on a rail, but must do the shooting. Others involve you tilting things, memorizing 
 and repeating patterns, or waving the nunchuck and remote up and down repeatedly to run or some 
 sort of similar action.
  
  The game definitely utilizes the Wii's capabilities very well and is executed very well most of 
 the time. There were definitely a few mini-games that got on my nerves and I was just glad to get 
 them over with, but 3 or 4 out of 50 isn't to shabby at all.
  
  On top of playing through the story mode you unlock the games as you beat them to be played in 
 score mode. In this mode you are rewarded up to 1000 points for how good you do at the games. 1000 
 points is basically a perfect run through a given game. Achieving scores like that will unlock 
 for you some bonus videos that are decently humerous along with a few more games to play.
  
  The best part about it is that score mode has multiplayer capabilities. It can do up to 4 players, 
 but everyone must have their own remote and nunchuck. It is definitly worth playing with friends 
 though, a lot of the games are even better when you are competing against your friends; or in some 
 cases you can play co-op.
  
  Rayman is a solid launch title for anyone looking for something to do on their new system that 
 doesn't take place in Hyrule or someone who is awaiting WarioWare's arrival. Don't miss out on 
 an oppurtunity for some long lasting fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrnothington
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 10, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  The game fallows rayman when he and some baby things get captured by the Rabbids. Rayman finds 
 himself in arena. But instead of having to fight his way threw enemys he has to play minigames. 
 The minigames are very diverse. You can can slap choirboys, shoot rabbids with carrot juice. The 
 games are simple to understand and very fun. The game is just to short and you can beat it in one 
 sitting. It can take you about 4 hours to finish one player. The game takes control of the wii 
 in some creative ways but most will be similler to other games on the wii.
  
  The multiplayer is just the single player games exept two people do them and you compete agenst 
 each other to have the most stars in the end of the game. The Multiplayer is not to great but the 
 whole game is nothing amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bambitheking
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 25, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game expecting a full game, but all i got was some boring minigames. The first time 
 i played i figured that once i beat the mini games i would get to the real game. Then after about 
 two hours i beat it. i must have missed the game or something. I though of the minigames as an 
 obsticle to get over to get to the real game. Boy was i wrong. Sure they make great use of the 
 wiimote, but if it isn't a game, just a bunch of minigames then who cares. Especially if it coast 
 full price $49.99. It was a big waste of money. Don't buy it bottom line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nickexile
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 25, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  So long I have waited for a great mini game..... game. After all this time, it has come. Say hello, 
 to the funniest, craziest, most insane game ever made, Rayman Raving Rabbids. This a game that 
 you could keep playing over and over again and you will still laugh at the bunnies insane behavior. 
 Now, let us go to the review. The game's story isn't all that great, its repetitive and only some 
 scenes change slightly, but, who cares?! You were kidnapped by evil crazy bunnies that are trying 
 to take over the world. Your a prisoner, you play insane games and they start to like you. That 
 is enough story for me. But the scenes change in funny ways, I won't spoil what happens though. 
 After you your done for the day and your friends come over. That's when the real fun starts. Play 
 all the mini games you beat in story mode and take on your friends. There is one disappointment 
 though. About one third of the games are turn based games, which means first you play the game, 
 then your friend, and then you see who did best. It gets worse later when more people come in because 
 some of the games turn into turn based games. But there is an easy solution. Put it as if there 
 are only two people playing, and people share the wii-mote. Not during a game but turn based also, 
 but at least you get to play with someone else at the same time. Also, turn base isn't so bad, 
 the games are just so much fun you really wont care, just play the game and have fun. You have 
 heard about Rayman, now go get it if you want fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HDShadow
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 24, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Rayman is one of the launch titles for the Nintendo Wii. So you can pretty much guess that Ubisoft 
 is going to give the Wii a normal Rayman platformer right? Wrong! Ubisoft takes a different direction 
 with this Rayman, and instead puts him in minigame mania! This is the most hilarious party game 
 you will ever find.
  
  Story: The story in Rayman is not noticeable. You quickly forget why you are doing these minigames. 
 And considering this is a partygame don't blame it.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is great. There are a ton of games to play in this game. The only problem 
 is, that the games get repetitive. Some games have a part 2 to them, and some minigames you play 
 throughout the game. And some games could have been a whole let easier designed. Most games are 
 fun fast and simplistic, some games are hard to control, some games are long, and some games are 
 just too damn hard. But the flaws in some of the minigames are easily overridden by the fun of 
 the others.
  
  Graphics: Ok, this is a launch game for the Wii so don't expect any Gears of War graphics. This 
 game goes into the direction of cartooney art instead of real life graphics. But that is most of 
 the fun about this game. This game's art is just hilarious. The bunnies look is just fantastic 
 and you'll get a good laugh out of this game with your friends anytime.
  
  Sound: The sound is great. The sound is perfect throughout the game until you get to a minigame 
 where you have to listen to the controller to guide a pig through a battlefield. The controller's 
 sound cuts the pig's out giving you a guessing game more of the time. But of course this is a small 
 flaw, and the overall in game soundtrack is hilarious! You get versions of songs with the bunnies 
 screaming which will surely give you a good laugh through the game. Even in the shooter games you 
 can hear the pant of Rayman as he jumps from roof to roof.
  
  Value: This game's value is good in the beginning and really good with friends, but if you hardly 
 have friends over to get multiplayer going you'll find this game to get dull quick. Any partygame 
 signals this. So if you do play multiplayer a lot, this game is for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 27, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  &middot; A ton of interesting and weird microgames. They range from racing, drawing, shooting, 
 and dancing. There's a ton of them, too. One of my favorites it the cow throwing. It's extremely 
 hard to pull off the first time.
  &middot; The bunny designs are just out of the world funny. There's nothing greater than a bunny 
 dressed like Sam Fisher running around throwing plungers at you.
  &middot; Some of the best humor I've seen in a game in years. Honestly, you will cry laughing at 
 the bunny remix of Hip Hop Horray.
  &middot; Good use of the Wii-mote and nunchuck. For a launch title, they make sure you're having 
 fun with your Wii, and not wanting to chunk it at a wall.
  
  :Bad Idea:
  &middot; There's no real story behind the game besides the obvious in which Rayman get's captured 
 by evil bunnies.
  &middot; Some of the microgames are recycled. For instance, the dancing games are fun, but then 
 they redo the same song with just a little more challenge in each round. It gets a little old.
 
  &middot; Feels a little incomplete or rushed, but that could all be because of the story mode.
 
  
  :Overall:
  &middot; An awesome title with a few minor fallbacks. Overall a game that you can have fun by yourself, 
 but most of all, with friends. If you have a Wii, you really owe it to yourself to make this one 
 of your Wii games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prof_Frink
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 21, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  The party game is a newer category of game that has only been on the scene for eight or nine years. 
 The first and still best known of the genre is the Mario Party games. While the first title was 
 unique and borderline revolutionary, the series has been going downhill with each new installment. 
 The problem is that with each new title, it is more difficult to create new and exciting series 
 of mini-games. The WarioWare series took the genre into an extreme nature with games that last 
 less than 3 seconds, but its first installment was also its best. And this leads to this title, 
 Rayman Raving Rabbids.
  
  This title borders between a party game and a platformer. Granted, since the title focuses more 
 on completing short games, like a party game, it does have some platform aspects in some of the 
 games. Overall the game is a party game with more story elements than your standard party game.
 
  
  The story itself is no blockbuster, but it is enough to carry the game. Rayman, the armless, legless 
 and neck-less wonder from previous platform fame is having a picnic with his friends when the Rabbids 
 (Rabbits for those who can spell correctly) invade and capture the friends and Rayman. Rayman must 
 compete in the games to free his friends.
  
  The games themselves are pretty short. Some are as quick as 30 seconds while others will take a 
 player a few minutes to complete. The games themselves take heavy advantage of the special control 
 features of the Wii system. They range from racing with a bomb package by shaking the Wii Remote 
 and Nunchuck rapidly to make Rayman run faster, drowning the Rabbids with carrot juice, or disco 
 dancing until the Rappids are forced to follow Rayman's funky moves. The controls are pretty accurate 
 and it will amaze new Wii owners at the potential that the system has on future games. Plus, many 
 of the games actually require pretty intensive body movement to complete the games leaving not 
 only fatigue and even a little sweaty. This may even be an option to get the tubby kids off of 
 the couch and be a little more active.
  
  The game is far from perfect, but as a launch title, it is pretty stellar. The graphics look a 
 little rushed, but by no means poor, just could use a little polishing. The music is fun and well 
 meets the tone of the game. The only real flaw is that the story mode is pretty long for a title 
 of this nature and it means so repeat of certain types of the mini-games just with more requirments 
 for completion. This may mean frustration in gameplay if the player did not like the first or second 
 time the event was played. The game does offer a feature to revisit mini-games that were enjoyed 
 the first time played. Finally, in order to really play this title as a ful party game, the story 
 mode needs to be complete so a group of people will have the most mini-games to choose when they 
 gather in front of the Wii.
  
  There is no shame in picking this title as the first one for the new Wii system. It is a great 
 example of what the Wii is capable and the humor of the title cannot be denied. Well worth the 
 $50 price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doodleduh7
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 21, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Before I start the review, I must make this clear. Forget everything you've heard about the story. 
 You will just be dissapointed.
  
  If you can forgive the heinous story, you will realize what a great game this is. Sure, a few games 
 need work, and a few are far too difficult, but the majority of the games are perfect. Just try 
 playing a game like Bunnies have a great ear for music without cracking up. This game is great.
 
  
  Gameplay- Quite good, with a few games needing work.
  
  Graphics- Well, it's a party game! What do you expect?
  
  Sound- Absolutely perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cybergurl102
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 24, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  I loved playing Rayman Ravin Rabbids.
  
  The bunnies are soo cute and there child like behavior make the gme so funny. The cut sceans are 
 great and very very funny to wacth.
  
  I did find some of the lvls very very hard to do at least for me. The instcustion at the begining 
 of each game were perfect not to long or to short.
  
  Played this game with friends taking turns for 9 hrs on the 19th. Everyone had fun even my mom 
 played a couple of rounds so anyone can play this game and have fun with it.
  
  This is a great game with a lot of re-playability in it!
  
  Everyone should get a copy of Rayman 
 for the Wii!
  
  MUST Have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaming_Prince
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 20, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  I will keep this short and sweet.
  
  Rayman Raving Rabbids for the WII is definitely a title you shouldn't pass on. I am not a hardcore 
 rayman fan, and no one has to be to enjoy it.
  
  There are about 70 mini games in this collection and they are all played by using obviously the 
 wiimote and nunchuk. The controls are very fluid and don't take much movement to initiate an action, 
 and also the controllers feel firm while playing.
  
  some examples of mini games are:
  
  Bunnies can't close doors: While aiming at doors with the wiimote, shake the nunchuk to slam 
 the doors closed before a rabbid shoots a plunger at you.
  
  Very simple, but you need to do this simultaneously for atleast 50 seconds. After several tries, 
 you will get a little sore from the same movement, so this may be an issue to certain people with 
 weaker bones or stiffer joints.
  
  You play every mini game in a colliseum type atmosphere by entering different gates as each represents 
 a game.
  
  After completing a whole set for 1 round, you will go to the boss round i guess you could say and 
 rescue one of your little green friends.
  
  this game is about a 5 minute long FPS gun shoot with bunnies. The most fun part of the game for 
 me so far.
  
  To wrap this up, This game has so much humour that it's almost unbearable and the graphics are 
 still quite decent. The replay value of collecting different items for Rayman and also wanting 
 to beat your records on your favourite mini's is sure to please the eye.
  
  Go get this game now and you will not be sorry.
  
  The multiplayer aspect I haven't checked 
 out yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaggieguy
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 20, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  Hysterical game. Buttloads of fun. I recommend this to anyone who isn't a hardcore gamer who wants 
 to play w/friends.
  
  The graphics are actually quite bad for some parts. But I didn't get a Wii for graphics. I got 
 Zelda and I've played this more than I have Zelda just with my friends. We get a kick out of how 
 insanely the rabbits scream all the time and just how ridiculous the game is. The minigames sometimes 
 rehash the same thing but it's still loads of fun.
  
  (But then again, I can't seem to stand the one player Wii games. Multiplayer FTW.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex_THVK
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 19, 2006 10:47 pm PT
Review:  So you're among the lucky ones that got a Wii at launch. You Obviously got yourself Zelda, which 
 is good for a number of reasons I wont even bother naming. Now, you need a game for those pick-up-and-play 
 momments. GET. YOURSELF. THIS GAME.
  The simple yet highly fun minigames and the hilarious characters -that is, the Rabbids of course- 
 and the amazing soundtrack/voices makes this game much more appealing than you would think.
  Granted, the game is nothing too special graphically in some spots, but if you got yourself a Wii, 
 you're obviously looking for something fun, not something pretty.
  Raving Rabbids is pretty much both, and a great game to play either by yourself or with 3 more 
 friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andiroo22
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 19, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  At first glance on the game rack you might look at Rayman and think back to the many platformers 
 that came before it. This installment of Rayman on the Wii however, goes in a completely different 
 direction, and it's definetly for the better. While the game lacks any sort of story line, the 
 70 different, and ridiculously fun mini-games make up for this. Basically, giant pissed off rabbits 
 invade and you get to play all sorts of crazy mini-games with them. It's somewhat reminiscent of 
 WarioWare, but the mini-games have MUCH more depth than a WarioWare title. If your looking for 
 a game to show off some of the wii's tricks, and play with 3 other friends, this is definetly a 
 game you should pick up. If your looking for that one game to pick up, in addition to Zelda, go 
 with Rayman, its quirky, it's funny, and it's a whole lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jehonaker
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  At first glance, this game seemed rather odd. You have to use the Wii Remote to complete minigames 
 with completely bizarre concepts: cow tossing, footraces, and dancing. However, this is exactly 
 the charm of the game, and precisely the reason why it hooked me within the first fifteen minutes 
 of playing.
  The value of this game comes in two areas: the mechanics and the comedy of the game. With the mechanics, 
 it forces you to think of video games as never before. The comedy comes in the spoofs, parodies, 
 and general humor that the game has, such as parodying the first-person shooters, the bunnies and 
 their tendencies to use the strangest weapons, and the absolute strangeness of the trials.
  You may be thinking, I want a normal Rayman platformer. This game isn't that platformer. But, despite 
 this, it still remains an awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saltyspam
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 19, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  all i got to say is that this is one of the best party games. After playin a few wii games im thinking 
 the wii is the better of the consoles to have just a good time if u have freinds.
  
  Gameplay- Girls will acuattly play this. My gf was tellin me how much of a no life i have but after 
 she played this she loves it. njot only are the bunnies cute but u get to shoot them with a plunger. 
 Plus they give ya tips and one we got was To make great stew dont forget to add extra beef or somethin 
 like that lol. the controls are fun also lota work for some mini games go up and down wit both 
 controlers and swinging it over your head etc.
  
  Graphics- well its funny. jumpin rope and bunnys just poppin out Sound- ditto
  
  Value- u need 
 4 controllers and 4 freinds to have a lot of fun
  
  i no this is a lame review but this is a very fun game. bunnies are cute and u get to shoot em 
 wit decent graphics and sound. great party game from the looks of things Wii gonna do great 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
