-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rayman Raving Rabbids 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/raymanravingrabbids2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Over 50 minigames, with a few real gems.
 The rabbids are still wonderfully psychotic.
 You can play dress-up with the rabbids, if that's your thing.
 Multiplayer is a greater focus in this sequel.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Most of the minigames are merely OK, and some are downright dull.
 In-game graphics still have a crude look to them.
 Shooting sequences aren't nearly as interesting this time around.
 The single-player isn't very interesting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.9, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 882 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montpellie
Genre: Party
Date: Nov 15, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This follow-up collection of minigames isn't nearly as captivating or humorous as its predecessor, 
 but it still has its moments. 

  Ubisoft's Rayman franchise took a sharp and perhaps unexpectedly successful turn in last year's 
 Rayman Raving Rabbids. The one-time platforming hero went the minigame-collection route, and in 
 doing so introduced the world to the most dementedly entertaining bunch of lagomorphs since Bugs 
 Bunny's heyday. The game was a success both because of its delightfully slapstick sense of humor 
 and its solid use of the Wii's motion controls for a variety of twisted games. Now, one year later, 
 Rayman Raving Rabbids 2 is on store shelves. This is an altogether predictable follow-up. It puts 
 the rabbids in a mixture of familiar and different-feeling minigames that, unfortunately, aren't 
 quite as engaging as what the first game offered. Likewise, the previous game's goofy humor isn't 
 as spot-on here, with gags more inclined to elicit a mild smirk than any hearty laughter. Nevertheless, 
 the increased multiplayer focus makes playing with your friends quite a bit more entertaining here 
 than in the original game, and there are still some moments when the rabbids' unique brand of collective 
 psychosis shines through.  

           Some of the new minigames are pretty entertaining, especially with multiple players.  
     

  One good thing Raving Rabbids 2 does is ditch pacing of the previous game's single-player mode. 
 No longer do you have to trek around an arena to each minigame. Instead, a series of minigames 
 is assigned to one of five different continents, and you simply travel from continent to continent 
 to get your minigame on. There is some manner of tossed-together plot about rabbids invading the 
 world via flying yellow submarines, but it's just a device to get Rayman roped into another rabbid-focused 
 adventure.  

  The problem is that the minigame selection in Raving Rabbids 2 simply isn't as good as its predecessor's. 
 There are some definite gems, such as the game where you fling the Wii Remote upward to eat chili 
 peppers and then belch fire to cook dangling chickens, or the one where you dangle spit off of 
 a ledge and try to angle it into a rabbid's drink, or the ultimate non-game where four characters 
 stare at a lone chess piece on a game board and have to try to "concentrate" as hard as they can 
 to win.  

  Some are more reliant on multiplayer than others. Any of the race minigames are infinitely more 
 entertaining with multiple players, as are the balancing minigames, in which you're tasked with 
 taking an ever-teetering plate of sandwiches to a rather portly rabbid by balancing the Wii Remote 
 and trying to avoid pitfalls. The balancing games remove all the other characters in the single-player 
 mode, which makes the process decidedly less fun, given that half of the enjoyment to be derived 
 from such a game would be in the act of bumping into other players and knocking their sandwiches 
 silly.  

  Other games -- such as the ones where you're forced to spin an ever-growing stack of plates on a 
 stick, or play a rather awkward game of beach volleyball -- are out-and-out failures, either because 
 they're just boring to play or because the control mechanics simply aren't much fun. Out of the 
 50 or so minigames included in this sequel, the ratio of fun games to less enjoyable games falls 
 more in favor of the less enjoyable ones than in the original Raving Rabbids, though there's still 
 just enough good entries here to keep you and any associate players entertained.  

  The musical and shooting games make their return in this sequel, albeit with a different look and 
 feel. The music games follow the same basic principal of keeping your Wii Remote and Nunchuk movements 
 in time with the music, but you're no longer just hitting the beats. Each song lets you pick from 
 one of four different instruments (the selection changes from song to song) , and the rhythms you 
 make with the controllers vary depending on the instrument you pick. Although that all sounds well 
 and good, ultimately it doesn't make a ton of difference. You're still waving the controllers as 
 you would in the first game, and the only difference is your particular rhythmic goal. If you liked 
 the musical levels in the first game, you'll probably enjoy these too.  

  The shooter missions in this game have a much different look than the original, due to all the 
 backgrounds being done in full-motion video. Someone at Ubisoft apparently took a video camera 
 to New York, Paris, and Tokyo, and then ran around filming a bunch of city streets and a few skits 
 involving real-life actors. Then the developers overlaid all the rabbid wackiness into that footage. 
 It's a really neat idea that unfortunately doesn't come off quite as wacky as you'd hope. The main 
 problem is that the environments the developers filmed aren't really all that crazy. Yeah, the 
 few moments where rabbids start beating people up with plungers are funny, but there's far too 
 few of those. Most of the time you're just ambling around random streets, parks, and docks while 
 the only thing going on in the background is a bunch of flying submarines hovering in the sky. 
 Sure, there's plenty of goofy rabbids to shoot with plungers, but even the action feels a bit flatter 
 than in last year's game.  

  One thing Raving Rabbids 2 does add to the formula is a customization element. You can build your 
 own custom trips using any six minigames, and you can also dress up both Rayman and the rabbids 
 in a variety of silly outfits. This isn't exactly a big draw or anything, but at least there is 
 a nice variety of items you can unlock.  

           Others aren't much fun at all.      

  Presentation hasn't seen a great deal of upgrading since last year's game. The cute, cartoony 
 visual style is still a treat to look at, but at the same time, the in-game graphics can look pretty 
 crusty, especially if you're running the game in 480p. Regardless, the animations of the rabbids 
 are as humorous as ever, and all that stuff with the full-motion video actually looks pretty cool. 
 The audio is practically identical to last year's game, with recycled rabbid screams and all. Granted, 
 all anyone would ever want out of the audio from this game is screechy rabbid noise, and this one 
 has it in spades. But just out of curiosity, why, exactly, does  Rayman  make rabbid noises in 
 this one? Is he being driven slowly insane by his continued interaction with these barmy creatures? 
 Or did the Rayman voice actor suddenly want too much money?  

  By no means is Raving Rabbids 2 a bad game, but everything about it feels a little bit slapdash, 
 as if it's more an excuse to get another game featuring those daft rabbids out on store shelves 
 by the holidays than a sequel that builds off of the success of the original and advances the series. 
 The minigames are mostly decent, but few really inspire the same sort of cackling glee that the 
 first game did. Maybe the onslaught of minigame collections for the Wii over the last year has 
 as much to do with that as the quality of the game itself, but nevertheless, Raving Rabbids 2 can't 
 help but feel a bit old hat. For those in serious need of a new rabbid fix, Raving Rabbids 2 is 
 a sufficient way to feed the addiction, though it's probably better served as a rental instead 
 of something to add to your collection.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (62 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: stalpno
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Ok i like this game. It has the right thing to be a great game with minigames it is funny, enjoyable 
 and memorable filled with laughs but it lacks that thing that will make it special like a junior 
 hamburer, it tastes nice and is nice but it hasnt reached itsfull potencial with more mayo and 
 pickles.
  
  The game is filled with wacky fun laughs which will make even your emo friend laugh. It is fill 
 with jam pack comedy and funny little scenes before a minigame.
  
  This time you can play as the rabbids as well as rayman and you can dress them up as you like but 
 the costumes are only unlocked by getting a score of 120000 in normal mode which sounds hard but 
 mostly not. You may make Rayman a dracular or a caveman but most of the costumes are for the rabbids 
 ranging from Spiderman to disco hippie to cowboy to one of the teenage mutant ninja turtles.
  
  Sadly Raymans voice sounds like a rabbid and has no real difference. Also you cannot play as 
 a rabbid in the single player trips. The graphics are poor at times and it is easy to loose enthusiasm 
 after a while.
  
  On the plus side you can enjoy many many various minigames and for those of you who liked the dance 
 lvls on RRR1 it is now band mode and you do the same action except it is easy to know when to him 
 the notes and it has cool songs like funky town, smoke on water and Celebration. Also for you RRR1 
 fans it has the toilet plunger shoot the rabbid games on 5 lvls having to defeat bosses on real 
 countrys but it doesnt look as good with the animation in the real world look doesnt suit but it 
 is still the same game but also has easier controls. The rest are their own new games ranging from 
 NFL to spitting in coffee mugs to being spider man to mucking around in the work office without 
 the boss knowing.
  
  This game will have you in laughter and tears. Laughter because it is so dang funny and tears cause 
 you will be wishing it was improved that tiny bit more. I only have one thing left to say it is 
 bwwwwaaaaaggggggghghhhhg! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catnip92451
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  This is so much fun. It brings a family together to laugh and relax. The controls are pretty easy 
 and each person has one they do better at, so it all equals out. And even getting the pink toilet 
 paper makes losing hilarious. This is slap stick humor at its best. I believe this is a wonderful 
 choice for a party game. Everyone can understand how to use the controls and the rabbids are... well 
 simply raving fanatics. The shooting games offer a chance to unlock the "right rabbid" to get a 
 new costume. They are fast paced and never get old. These can be enjoyed by any age-young or old. 
 We created some of our own trips using a scoring matrix that really mixes things up so it keeps 
 it funny. I recommend this game to anyone who wants to get people laughing and keep it going. I 
 plan on getting more in this series. I do pose one question.. what the heck are those crazy rabbids 
 saying besides ola` and yipee? You need to get the game yourself to figure it out. And while their 
 singing may not be in the top 10, they are worth listening to for the best gut roll since the chipmunks. 
 Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  The Original Rayman Raving Rabbids was a highlight of the Wii launch titles. Outside of Wii Sports 
 this was the one game that everyone could enjoy that didn't suck. When I heard that the sequel 
 would only be on Wii I thought that they would put much more work into the game and it would be 
 deep, hearty and full of fun. I was wrong. RRR2 is fun but it is thrown together. 
  
  There seems to be no story and while I understand that it is a party game, completely eliminating 
 the one player psuedo adventure was a huge mistake. So, there is absolutely no attempt to tie these 
 minigames into a story. The cut scenes are boring and the menu interface is shallow and pointless. 
 I finished most of the game in 2 hours and did not want to pick it back up. Only saving grace RRR2 
 has is its mini games. The mini games are just as if not more fun than its predecessor's. The shooting 
 gallaries are back, but this time that are just a bonus feature and the musical numbers are now 
 way easier, since the notes now scroll down the screen like Guitar Hero. 
  
  Hopefully TV Party is better, I miss the classic Rayman platformers. Maybe if no one buys TV Party 
 we can convince Ubisoft to bring back the traditional games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YellowFlameDcr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why gamespot have only given this a 6.5? In my opinion they've wrongly graded a few 
 games :- ( 
  But Anyway, I brought this game for my daughter and she loves it so much. But I have to admit, 
 once you start playing it, it is so addictive.
  The once I had a few of my old friends round and we put it on for a laugh and ended up playing 
 it all night. It's just so much fun. Even the mini games that are surrounded by real life images 
 and world heritages... It's all nicely put together! One of the better games out on the wii.
  The Single Player mode is also a lot of fun and so funny, you will soon get hooked onto it and 
 believe me, you wont get off it... just like me hehe. Just a shame the game doesn't last long and 
 easy to complete... but then you go to the mini games and you'll have loads of fun on those instead. 
 A must have in your collection! :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sexyman123abc
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 27, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  man this game is fun and funny and all but it is a little boriing with out a story but my sister 
 loves those bunnies thats why she got pissed when i sold at gamestop. on on a from 1-100 i give 
 it a 45. even my laughed juring fart wars. this game to me prtie much is ok but not best game i 
 ever played but i have played worse. yea ray man raving rabbids is prtie good. i wonder how good 
 the first one is and i wonder how good the next one is. i woder if they will make a 4th rayman raving 
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_bomber1
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  This is NOT as good as the first game. There are cosiderably fewer games and the ones that are 
 there although amusing enough are not as imaginative as the first game's. 
  I like the idea of bringing the rabbids into the real world, unfortunately I think too much of 
 the disk space went onto the "real world" back grounds of the shoot-em up sections of the game. 
 Even these little forays are not as good as the original game. No more chain hand grab, and now 
 that you have to press A to reload you either need to be an adult, or use two hands on the remote 
 to play them.
  That said the main games are considerably easier to play in most cases than the first game due 
 to them only requiring the use of the remote.
  I think my biggest problem with Rabbids2 is that it has no point. In the original Rayman was trying 
 to escape from his Rabbid captors. Although the Rabbids are invading the earth n this installment 
 the aim seems to be........ play games?
  
  Don't get me wrong I do like the game; I am just slightly disappointed by it, you probably will 
 be too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LK9988
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Good Stuff:
  .Rabbids are back!
  .The music games are good unlike the music games of the first one.
  .You can fully customise 
 your rabbids and Rayman.
  .Great multiplayer.
  .Some of the minigames are really good and funny and they are some of the best you'll see in a 
 party game.
  .It has more of a "party game" style unlike the first one.
  .The plunger games are awesome!
  
  Bad Stuff:
  .Less minigames then the previous installment.
 
  .Some minigames are really boring or are annoyingly difficult to do because of controls.
  .They focused too much on multiplayer so it does get boring quickly on singleplayer.
  .Graphics 
 are even worse then the first installment. (apart from plunger games)
  .Rayman has the same voice as the rabbids.
  .It just seems as if the game was rushed.
  
  
 Although with all it's flaws, this is a great game that is better then the first one, but it could 
 of been pretty much twice as better though. Some minigames are awesome like the music ones (with 
 good songs this time!) and more. The game is simpler and more fun to play because it doesn't have 
 that DARNED arena anymore. Instead, the menu is a shopping mall that is now a secret rabbids base. 
 
  
  Instead of just doing the minigames randomly, there are 5 real life continents with their own minigames 
 that resemble different countries. You can play these minigames as either Rayman OR rabbids which 
 are compleyley customiseable. Some of these minigames are party game gems and even resemble the 
 country/continent their in. Others, on the other hand, are boring, repetitive and annoying and 
 don't even resemble the countries there in. 
  
  The music and plunger games are different and better too. in The music games you can choose which 
 instrument your character plays on and each instrument has different difficulty levels. Unfortunateley, 
 all the instruments are played the same but it's great to play them nonetheless. The music games 
 are played as if you were playing on drums, you do it by shaking the wii remote and the nunchuck 
 controller accoring to the symbols.
  
  The plunger games are really fun to play and one reason is because they got some guy/s to record 
 a video of New york and others global landmarks like that. Then they add the craziness of putting 
 the rabbids and there stuff as animations in the video and it's a very good idea. The controls 
 in the plunger games could be worse because you press A to reload and you can't grab rabbids anymore 
 but who used that anyway?
  
  Here's the summing up:
  
  Graphics: The graphics are one of the only bad things in this game because overall their even worse 
 then that of the first one! A lot more work could of been put into the graphics. 5/10
  
  Story: This time, the rabbids are trying to invade earth! They made an shopping mall as their secret 
 base for world domination. Rayman sneaks into the base but gets caught. The storyline is nice but 
 there pretty much is none after the first scene. 7/10
  
  Sound&Music: The sound and music has been vastly improved over the first one, but why does rayman 
 have the same voice as the rabbids? 9/10
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay this time is much more multiplayer focused and it is a blast to play with 
 other people, but the gameplay can get boring quickly in most minigames if your playing alone but 
 it's great nonetheless! 8.5/10
  
  Overall: I would say to rent this game first as so many people hate it as it's too focused on multiplayer 
 and it's too different from the first one but Overall, the rabbids are back, and better then before! 
 8/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabbids
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 7, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  I do not know why, but RRR2 is a much better game than people say. sure, it is just my opinion, 
 but it is a great multiplayer game, better than the single player "trips" are. It can only be appreciatted 
 with a crowd instead of just playing alone. The summary is that the Rabbids are trying for global 
 domination, and rayman is the only one that can stop them and tries to. The art style is great 
 and very funny, especially in the shooting games. The graphics alone look good (for the Wii.) What 
 I think that changed the most was the gameplay, it is way different than the first, but it is still 
 funny and highly entertaining. The new features are really cool. Such as the customizeable rabbids, 
 the trips, and the new but easier minigames.
  Overall, RRR2 is worth buying, I think it is one of the best third party games for the Wii, and 
 especially if you are looking for a funny and good multiplayer game. and I strongly disagree with 
 the GS review. Is much better than the original was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmackabuto23
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 11, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  This game was my first Rabbids game to play and it was really fun. My first time playing normal 
 mode was really hard for me but I got used to it. If your new to the series like me its a really 
 great game. I don't know if it's boring to old time fans though. The point of the game is to help 
 Rayman save the world from the evil Rabbids. I loved the tons of great costumes you can get. Some 
 costumes are from different games like TMNT, Assasin's Creed, and Haze. My favorite costume I have 
 is the Assasin's Creed one so far. Lots of minigames like Burgerini, Timber, Little Chemist, and 
 Snake Charmer. At the end of every trip you play a song like Smoke On the Water and Papa's Got.... 
 You can play a shooting plunger virtual game by completing trips around the world. It combines 
 the real world with the gaming and animating worlds. Every one of those games has bosses at the 
 end of them. This game is a must have for minigame fans!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  In this game there is no story mode just minigames fun for the Familly and partys. There are 60 
 minigames some of them are easy and some of them are very hard. But the best part is that you can 
 customize Rayman and for the first time ever you can be a Rabbid and customize it. This game is 
 very funny.
  
  The good of this game is that it is great for parties.
  
  The bad is that some minigames are really weird and there should be more minigames.
  
  Overall 
 I rate this game to 9.0 outta 10. I think you should get this game it is very  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tireyo643
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids 2 is a good sequel and it did improve on some of the shortcomings that the 
 first one had. However, The sequel came with some new problems that makes it no better than the 
 first. Rabbids 2 is much better when it comes to focusing on the multi-player aspect and the mini-games 
 are funnier to play and watch, but the mini-games, just like the first game of Rayman Raving Rabbids, 
 do get old after awhile. The control scheme of the shooting games are much worse making it more 
 difficult and frustrating to play. The graphics are better in this game, but graphics have no effect 
 when it comes to gameplay. The music games are good, but there needs to be a wider selection of 
 songs to choose from because the songs are too common. I give Rayman Raving Rabbids 2 a 7.5 because 
 it has some serious issues. Despite of these issues, Rayman Raving Rabbids 2 is a good game to 
 play with your friends and it should not be ignored. Rent the game first to see if you like it. 
 Otherwise, do not miss out on a good game or a good laugh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gddr45
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  The rabbids are back! Time for more fun! Well, maybe.
  
  Pros
  The rabbids are still quirky
  Multiplayer is a bigger focus
  You can dress up the rabbids
 
  
  Cons
  The minigames are not nearly as fun this time round
  Shooting games are not as creative
  Single player isn't very interesting
  
  Gameplay:
  
 In last game, single player was pretty captivating. The games were fun and mad. But multiplayer 
 wasn't that good. This time it's the exact way around. Single player involves you choosing from 
 a continent. You then play a series of somewhat dull minigames. The bad thing is: It is way too 
 easy. You can get 0 as your score in every minigame and pass. You definitely won't get a high score, 
 but you would pass. It doesn't play all the minigames at once, so you have to go back and unlock 
 the remaining minigames, and it's possible they won't show up the second time. You can also customize 
 your trips. But you HAVE to play the trips to unlock the minigames. There is also a Free play and 
 a Plaza so you can play the shooting games, play the jukebox, and customize characters. A somewhat 
 cruddy gameplay earns it this: 6/10
  
  Mutliplayer: 
  Multiplayer is now a bigger focus, and it definitely can be fun, depending on the minigame you 
 chose. The burger games are fun because you and all your friends will frantically be knocked down 
 and pushed, so it makes fun and challenging. If you play a game of "Chess", though, it's a real 
 letdown. All you have to do is concentrate. Your basically hold the Wii Remote and get points, 
 so that game is lame. Multiplayer can be fun or dull, depending on the game. Score: 7.5/10
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are ok. But they still look a little to cartoony. I wouldn't call 
 them good. Score: 6/10
  
  Sound:
  The sound is ok, too. The rabbid sound is pretty clear. The music and other sounds isn't so clear. 
 Score: 6.5/10
  
  Controls:
  The game makes solid use of the Wii Remote. The motions for the games are pretty good, but some 
 can be improved.
  
  This game can be summed up in one word: OK. To me, I would just rent it.
  Overall: 6.5
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ebi_Furya
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2009 8:29 am PT
Review:  When the first Rayman Raving Rabbids appeared in November of 2006 for the Nintendo Wii, it was 
 packed with hours of hilarious entertainment and enjoyment. One year later, Ubisoft Montpellier 
 tried to recapture that same comedic entertainment in Rayman Raving Rabbids 2. Each of the mini-games 
 is new, however only a handful of them are actually fun to play.
  
  Rayman Raving Rabbids 2 takes the emphasis of gameplay from a single-player perspective to a full 
 multiplayer one. Most of the games is designed to be played by up to four players and because of 
 this, playing the game by yourself isn't as enjoyable this go around. The mini-games are organized 
 in "trips" where you play different games from different regions around the world. You'll play 
 Football in North America, run from a rolling ball in South America, "work" in a Tokyo office building, 
 and many more. When you start a trip, you are presented with 5 different mini-games in a row which 
 are randomly selected from a set of 9. After you complete the trip the first time and do it again, 
 you will receive the other 4 and one random game. After that, all 5 are chosen at random.
  
  As you play and achieve high scores, you unlock new clothing options for your Rabbids. At the 
 beginning of the game, there are a handful of preset Rabbids that you can customize with a small 
 selection of clothing items. You can change their hats, clothes, or put them into a complete outfit. 
 There are a lot of interesting combinations that can be made. During gameplay, you will even be 
 able to unlock additional Rabbids to customize.
  
  A few great new additions are the ability to create a custom trip and online rankings. By creating 
 a custom trip, you can specify which of the mini-games you will play through. You will be able 
 to choose from any of the games that have been previously played through. Unfortunately, you cannot 
 add the shooter games to the custom trip. With the online rankings, any time a high score is achieved, 
 it can be uploaded to the Internet and the top three scores in the world will be given back to 
 you as well as where you rank. This is a nice new addition using the Nintendo WiFi Connection, 
 but it would have been better had it been the ability to play against others instead.
  
  All the controls in Raving Rabbids 2 are still heavily motion based using the Wiimote and Nunchuk. 
 You'll find yourself balancing food on a tray, shaking a bottle of soda, cooking chickens, washing 
 laundry and much more. The instructions for each game are clearly laid out before you play and 
 easy to pick up on. Controlling the game feels good and is responsive. The motion controls are 
 well done and don't feel overly awkward at any point in time.
  
  The two favorites from Rayman Raving Rabbids are back: the Music games and the Shooter games. However, 
 each one has gone through some changes that while nice, are a letdown as well. In the Music games, 
 you're no longer just shaking the Wiimote and Nunchuk in rhythm with the beat, but you get to choose 
 one of four different instruments from the band and play, in rhythm, with the song. It's a nice 
 addition, but the songs don't get as fast paced as before and even with the more "difficult" instruments 
 seem rather easy. The song selection is also not as appealing.
  
  The Shooter games have gone from the crazy 3D worlds you roamed around in before to real-world 
 footage of famous places with the Rabbids placed in. The effect is a very interesting one, but 
 because of the real locales, it's not as enjoyable as it was before. In addition, only two players 
 at a time can play through the Shooter games.
  
  Graphically there are little to no improvements over the previous game. Everything is still cartoony 
 and it does look good, but it would have been nice to see everything a little crisper. Watching 
 the Rabbids run around New York or Paris during the Shooter games is nice and looks fairly good.
 
  
  When playing through the game, you'll begin to hear a lot of the same music and sound effects in 
 the background that were in the first game. There are new sounds, but the majority of them are 
 recycled. There also isn't enough "DAAAAAAHHHH!!!" in the game which made the first so hilarious 
 at times.
  
  The best aspect of this game is the improvements that were made towards multiplayer. In the first 
 Rayman Raving Rabbids for the Nintendo Wii, the games differed depending on how many people where 
 playing and there was no instruction on this until you actually played the mini-game. This time 
 around, each player has the same controls for every game. This makes explaining what to do to others 
 who have not played it before much easier and less confusing. It also makes it fairer to all the 
 players. With the ability to create custom trips, you can setup a string of mini-games for a long 
 bout of playing that would make any party fun.
  
  When you look at the individual aspects of Rayman Raving Rabbids 2, there are a lot of flaws and 
 things that could have been done better. However, when you look at the game as a whole, it is still 
 a decent compilation of mini-games and great for parties. If you need a good game to play with 
 family or friends, Raving Rabbids 2 would be a good choice, but if you want a good single player 
 experience, look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legox97
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is always fun with all the mini games to play. And its also fun to play the shooting 
 games which copy the background of the places their based on. As in some of the games your forced 
 to play against your friends and in others your forced to co-operate with them. Its great that 
 you can dress up rabbids and Rayman. I think their is a flaw in the game tho, you cant play with 
 your friends to achieve the high scores for the mini games. Overall i say get this game its fun 
 to play, and who wouldn't want to watch little rabbids sing and dance?
  
  Its a very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very fun game and you can also play it for 
 forever because you can beat the game but still have fun playing. Its fun for all ages too because 
 you can dress them up and they're retardedly funny.
  
  
  I wrote this extra stuff so it could actually be considered a review to game spot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukiat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  Ok, i dont really want to buy this game, i want to buy the first, but, you now, they buy me anything 
 (xD) but then i start to play it and i get really fascinated for this, its really good!. you have 
 a lot of things to with this little bodies, the rabbids. I play the another, and this it's the 
 best of the two, with a lot of gameplays, more rabbids, and an hilarious athmosphere. 
  Well i alway want to have this on my wii, and the dream comes thruth, with my friends, alone, ok, 
 my family, everbody likes this, and its an incredible game...
  
  
  Gameplay: its awesome, you had almost a 50 different gameplays, its a very strong part of the game, 
 ist's a very strong part of all the barty games, that mekes it so fun.
  
  The graphics are really dissapointining, for so many things, and make the rabbids square!.
  
 
  and with the sound i think it are good, just an old songs singining by the rabbidsand some screams 
 (a lot) of the rabbids.
  
  Ok its an enjoyable game of ubisoft and rayman. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alaarajab
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  I'm always the first one to criticize a collection of games on the Wii. So it takes a lot for me 
 to really get behind and enjoy a standard mini-game collection, but there's something so addictive 
 about playing mini-games as a Rabbid in full Altair attire. Thanks to a great collection of games 
 and a wonderful sense of humor, Rayman Raving Rabbids 2 is a stand-out title in a bloated genre.
 
  
  Given that the original did well during the Wii's early life cycle, a sequel was inevitable. There 
 were some problems with the original, though, and Ubisoft has managed to fix what hurt the original 
 with the creation of this superior sequel. Gone are the "hot seat" games, the unfulfilling single-player 
 mode, and the limited plunger shooting. A whole host of new games, customization options, multiplayer 
 appeal, and a completely revamped interface all make for a marked improvement.
  
  Rayman Raving Rabbids 2 offers an equal divide between tournament-style play for unlocking content 
 and free-style "pick and choose" play. The entire process is made much more enjoyable by one simple 
 addition typically omitted from games like this: the unlocking process can be done with more than 
 one player, so there's no need to trudge your way through a lonely play session just to have fun 
 at a later date.
  
  The "tournament" structure is a collection of different mini-games tied together as a trip to one 
 specific country with related mini-games. For example, the American trip features the "American 
 Football" mini-game, a New York-style "Spider-Rabbid" mini-game, and a James Brown-inspired rhythm 
 mini-game towards the end. While not all the games are specifically shoehorned into the appropriate 
 cultural focus, most fit the home country well in a charming way.
  
  You'll also be able to upload individual game scores and totaled "trip" scores over the Nintendo 
 WiFi Connection to the online leaderboards, which is a nice addition for those seeking to extend 
 their play sessions. Once you've unlocked a game, it is then available for individual play without 
 going through a trip. Best of all, finishing each trip rewards you with something special, including 
 new (and long) plunger shooting levels and new costumes to customize player characters. 
  
  As you might expect, multiplayer is the main draw here. The collection of mini-games is quite solid, 
 with a focus more on fun gameplay elements than remote-exploiting controls: it's good to see Ubisoft 
 ease back on the unnecessary motion control in some places. As a result, Wii control stays a positive 
 addition throughout, as the sparing and typically appropriate use of motion makes the motion-based 
 games a joy: the instrument games, especially, are a ton of fun. In fact, the drumming game with 
 the remote and nunchuck could almost be a standalone game unto itself with a little more development-that's 
 about the best compliment any mini-game can receive.
  
  Though the visual style may not be for everyone and the lack of online play hurts a bit, Rayman 
 Raving Rabbids 2 is still worth picking up if you've got friends that like to play. Any collection 
 that can make me put aside the likes of Mass Effect, Call of Duty 4, Uncharted, and Assassin's 
 Creed just for a hilarious play session is worth taking note of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wii_Player64
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids 2 is one of the best party games for Wii! Unlocking and dressing your bunnies 
 is really fun and cool! But the single player isn't that great at all. The game does have good mini 
 games though. The costumes are cool because they make fun of real people! Example: they have Elvis 
 bunnies, Ninja Turtle bunnies, pimp bunnies, Power Ranger bunnies, etc. Now you know how the plunger 
 hunts were great in the 1st RRR, but the ones in the 2nd RRR 11% worser, but there still a little 
 bit fun. The mini games that are in the trips don't seem to fit in. Example: Asia has a level could 
 "The Office"" were you mess around in'till the boss comes in to check on you, that should be in 
 North America. Trust me, theres a WHOLE lot more games that don't fit in with there trips! Overall 
 this game still deserves a perfect 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsnett
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  Over the recent transaction, that allowed me to finally say goodbye to the red rings of death and 
 the customer-no-service of x-box 360, I was able to get a WII much to the delight of my daughters 
 (yes they game alot) . On a whim I decided to pick up Rayman Raving Rabbibs 2 and I was aware that 
 it did not score as high as the first release. My daughters (14,11) and myself put the disc in 
 and for the next hour or so laughed and giggled as the games, weird if not at times gross, and 
 mini games kept us on the edges of our seats. I enjoy mission based games and racing games where 
 there are ultimate goals and so on like cod4 or burnout paradise but this game was about as much 
 fun as any-other. It didnt matter to any of us who was winning or who was losing it was pure basic 
 fun something some games have forgotten about. The mini games platforms controls were very simple 
 and easy to master and were a little better at times than those of mario party 8. My wife who will 
 play a game once in a while also got caught up in this game. This game is great for group/ parties. 
 It is a game great for those lazy nights where you really dont what to do too much but yet are 
 bored. This is a game that is just as fun to watch as it is to play.
  Easy controls, weird cast of characters and just fun mini games makes for a great combo and many 
 interesting days/nights of fun. Check it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariosonic91
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Rayman ravving rabbids was a highly sucessful launch game composed of minigames. Although it was 
 originally a platformer, the game passed and excelled with the hilarious rabbids and fun. Only 
 a year later and a sequal has already come. It does pass but does not excel like the 1st game leaving 
 it under the stereotypical opinion that sequals are never as good.
  
  
  Story 7/10: The rabbids have invaded our world and its up to rayman to stop them. If you dont go 
 straight to the title screen, your introduced to this with a nice cut scene in the begining of 
 the game. A woman giving a live report on these strange yellow submarines flying over the city 
 and rabbids come from everywhere. Rayman (seeing this on the news) decided that the best way to 
 stop them is to infiltrate there headquarters and disguise himself as one of them. This story doesnt 
 have any type of ending however leaving the viewers to some disappointment. It will be enjoyed 
 though because the humor is defenitly still there where even at one point the rabbids are looking 
 at the cartridge of the 1st game when there trying to identify him.
  
  Gameplay 7.5/10: The controls work for all games so theres no problem there, but the fact is that 
 the games your playing just arent as fun.... alone. The game has emphisized on the multiplayer more 
 creating some crazy havoc for you and your freinds, but when your alone certian minigames just 
 involve you. For some reason they took out the computers in a few and left them there in the rest. 
 Its confusing why they did this but it also just leaves out competition. There are still a great 
 number of minigames from serving foods to goofing around, spitting, burping, farting, or even wacking 
 a bunny with a baseball bat. The game has alot less repetitions so saying theres over 50 minigames 
 is actually saying theres over 50 minigames with noPART 2" to any of them. For those who have 
 played the 1st, music and shooting stages have returned with some better ideas and just as fun 
 gameplay. Music stages allow you to play one of 4 different instruments and you swing the remote 
 on the instramental beat. Shooting games has a very interesting concept where you go around shooting 
 in real places of the world. A guy took a camera, ran around a bunch of places and then added the 
 rabbids. For the most part this collection works as a whole and the few boring minigames will not 
 completly prevent from having the humorous fun.
  
  Graphics 7.0/10: This game came out so quick that the developers didnt have time to get into all 
 details and thats where it suffers. The game looks ok but some places look like they could be from 
 a ps2 game or pherphaps even lower. It does have sustaining power though as the shooting levels 
 through the camera look excellent and the at the same time the rabbids fit in perfectly. To sum 
 it upits no mario galaxy graphics but its no eye-sore either"
  
  Extras 7.5/10: Theres always new things around the corner to unlock and rabbids has pleny to them. 
 However most of the unlockables are just costumes to spruce up your rabbid. The other extras are 
 a nice touch including customization of your own trip, this creates a large variety compared to 
 the marathon mode in the 1st game. There is wifi in this game but only leaderboards to match scores 
 online and with the weaker point system it feels like you can only go so far.
  
  Its surprising how a game released only a year after the prequal can have this much sustaining 
 power, but its no amazing triump return. Its certianly better than many other minigame collections 
 but the rabbids better fine tune if they plan to make a 3rd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toddgrx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 11:11 pm PT
Review:  The Rabbids are hilarious. I enjoy the spoofing of our modern culture... the cell-phones-in-the-theater 
 game had everyone laughing so much it was hard to concentrate on doing the Wii moves. Many of the 
 mini-games are surprisingly difficult to play. While others can be a bit simplistic. The game offers 
 a variety of mini-games each with a differing degree of dificulty making it enjoyable for persons 
 of all ages and game-skill levels. My 12-year old can rock to a high-score on Funky Town, my 10-year 
 old is master at Plunger Race, and I can Bumper Cars with the best. Single-player mode allows you 
 obtain "high-scores" and unlock other Rabbid costumes. But it's strongest point is as a multiplayer 
 game. With four persons playing, it's a fun time that everyone can enjoy. Best of all, the mini-games 
 don't last too long and it's not too addictive that kids can't easily walk away from it... getting 
 back to their homework, chores, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 26, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Well I guess I'm finished with Rayman: Raving Rabbids 2, at least as finished as one can be with 
 a game that has no story and no concrete end. The most only thing left for me to do is get the 
 high score on every minigame but I'm not a completionist. I have to start off by saying that Rayman: 
 Raving Rabbids did so much right the first time, that it's fairly disappointing to see the sequel 
 just add a few more games and marginally improve multiplayer while skimping out on the rest.
  
  
  The graphics in Raving Rabbids don't seem to be improved much over the previous title, 
 meaning they remain about adequate. There are still jaggies around the Rabbid's bulbous heads and 
 the menus are fairly bare bones. Besides that there's no slow down, no clipping, nothing really 
 to say about the visuals.
  
  
  There's not too much to say about the sound either. Raving Rabbids 2 really doesn't raise the bar 
 from the first game. The music, noises and sounds effect remain at an appropriate quality level. 
 Nothing too fancy here.
  
  
  The story in this game is that the Rabbids decide on surfacing, taking over the world and well 
 I don't know where the story goes from there. It just seems a bunch of minigames that have themes 
 from around the world with really no solid reason. There's more emphasis on co-operative play this 
 time but it seems that plot took a back seat.
  
  
  The slapstick and humorous antics that the Rabbids pull are still founds in spades throughout this 
 game but gone, unfortunately, gone is the Ren & Stimpy-ish grotesque humor found in the first one. 
 Besides more cooperative gameplay and simply more games, the only other improvement is that the 
 Rabbids seem to be spoofing characters from recent movies, and games. As for the minigames themselves, 
 they make good and somewhat original use of the Wii remote and much of the favorites from the first 
 game remain. It seems the only reason to play the single player game is to unlock more costumes 
 for Rayman and the Rabbids. 
  
  
  Well this review seems pretty bare but that's pretty much because the game itself is pretty bare. 
 Rayman seems to have struck gold the first time but adding more games and more coop chances while 
 skimping out on almost everything doesn't seem the correct formula to improve the series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Veritys
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 21, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  After the lackluster review gamespot gave the game I was a little worried that buying it for my 
 family was a mistake. I wanted to pick up a few games for the past weekend and most everything 
 else was sold out. I popped it in and played along with my 2 kids (5 and 12) and quickly found 
 it was a nice change from the mario party series. The games are easy, quick and fair as far as 
 the scoring system goes. In the mario party series I never liked the fact that winning the mini 
 games does almost nothing to better your winning chances. It was still laid out as a board game 
 with luck dice and this was not. If you enter the "trip" mode you play games that fall along that 
 countries theme. Playing round after round until the last which is a music rythm based game to 
 celebrate the end of the voyage. This really put the smile on my kids faces, some were hard for 
 them and others not but it seemed to even out at the end. Another nice addition is the winning 
 of costume parts to change up the rabbids (or single rayman) and dress them up as you see fit. 
 
  Overall the graphic style is sharp and clean, the sound is good and the game comes with a truck 
 load of charm. In one particular mini game you beat a patient on an operating table with a sausage 
 to sedate them. This kind of off the wall humor is really fun. Another feature that can be unlocked 
 is a shooting mode, in which you use the Wii remote as a gun and shoot the rabbids as they terrorize 
 a particular city. One cool thing about this is the backgrounds / world they run around is photo-realistic, 
 and it actually makes it kind of cool to play through. Although it does get a touch boring.
  
  I liked it, I gotta say its not something your going to play non-stop for days on end. But 
 adding it into your rotation of family games is well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: and7883
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  Rent this game, definately don't bother buying it. Not as good as the first game. There really 
 isn't a campaign, you just travel to different places and play different games. The entire game 
 took a little under two hours to complete. I had fun playing this game with my wife, but I probably 
 wouldn't have enjoyed it nearly as much by myself. Because I loved the first game in this series 
 so much, I did have pretty high expectations wtih this game. With that being said, I wish this 
 game had followed more closely exacting what made it popular in the first place. The comedy was 
 still there, which was nice. Those rabbids still crack me up just as much as the first game. The 
 mini-games were pretty fun as well, but were very similar to the mini-games found in the first 
 game. All in all, this game was fun for the time being. I just wish it had followed the dynamics 
 of the first game more closely, while distinguishing itself as a viable game with more unique-mini 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MonkishGamer
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  One of my favorite launch titles for the Wii was Rayman Raving Rabbids, a minigame collection where 
 Rayman vied to save rescue himself and others from the evil rabbids. Now he and the rabbids are 
 back, and this time they want the world. Rayman infiltrates their base and takes them down from 
 the inside. The minigames are still fun this time around, with the zaniness and hillarity all intact. 
 Some of the minigames are some of the most fun I've seen in a while, while others are OK. My favorites 
 include The Office mingame, the Spiderman spoof, the Indiana Jones spoof, and the anesthetics game. 
 This time instead of sets of 5, you take on World Tours, where you go to a set of 6 minigames, 
 and after you beat them, you unlock a shooting game, which you can play later. There are five "continents", 
 and each one feels fair in length. The game adds replay value allowing you to go back and unlock 
 extra games in other play-throughs. You can even customize your own trip, adding for some fun. 
 The shooting missions are, to me, the biggest improvement. This time around they used real world 
 video, so the Rabbids are running around in a real environment with real people, like live-action. 
 Overall, this game is a solid sequel, and a crazy, zany minigame collection for any Wii owner. 
 And despite some length issues and some variety in the minigames, this is a solid installment.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfpackfrenzy
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2008 5:58 am PT
Review:  This game, although it has a single player campaign, it is really meant to be a multiplayer experience. 
 So, with that said, the single player mode was a little dull. But when I took my wii to visit some 
 relatives and friends we all flipped out and had a blast. This game is crazy funny. Our sides and 
 stomach were hurting from all the laughing we were doing. As for the game play, some of the mini 
 games are short and dull, but overall they're pretty good. The costume selection was a nice funny 
 feature. For an experienced gamer, the single player mode wasn't that long or difficult. However, 
 I honestly feel this game was not meant for the hardcore gamer but instead just anyone who wanted 
 to play and goof off. For years I've wanted my parents to try out a video game and for years they 
 rejected it. This game was the first time they've ever picked up any video game controller, and 
 they seriously enjoyed it. If you don't have a group to play with, you'll miss out on what this 
 game has to offer.
  
  Story 5/10:
  Not much story at all. You shoot some rabbits.
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  This game is a multiplayer game and really meant to be just that. The single player 
 mode is a little lame.
  
  Controls 9/10
  The controls are great and they match the mini games very well. Most of the games are very sensitive 
 and accurate.
  
  Sound 7.5/10
  Nothing outstanding about the sound. The rhythm songs are neat.
  
  Graphics 7/10
  Nothing 
 outstanding about the graphics.
  
  Fun 9/10
  When played with a group of people, this game is really really fun.
  
  *************
  Overall 
 8/10
  ************* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_Guy_07
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Story 6/10 - No story what's so ever. Well the rabbids apparently take over earth. 
  
  
  Game play 9/10 - 51 or so mini games that will make you laugh and will keep you busy for a long 
 time. The mini games range from spitting in peoples cups to blowing up a city with a burp to playing 
 in a band. Speaking of witch the band mini game one of my faves. When you get first place in these 
 mini games you can unlock costumes for RAYMAN and you're RABBIDS. You can either play these mini 
 games in TRIP mode or FREE PLAY. In TRIP mode you travel to the 5 different contenants with 9 mini 
 games in each one. You can play Single player or multiplayer. In FREE PLAY mode you can play the 
 games you have unlocked. The new addition i liked was how you can put your scores on the internet 
 rite from your system.
  Last but not least..... probably should have been first is the MULTIPLAYER! This game has taken 
 a big step up from the first one. The multiplayer is funner and the mini games are more intence 
 with up to 4 people. Mini games are played either in EASY (too easy) or normal (easy) .
  
  
  Graphics 8.5/10 - Graphics have improved since RRR1. The edges are smooth and you cant see all 
 the pixals.
  
  
  Control 9.5/10 - Usually in WII games the movements you do are unresponsive but to my surprise 
 every time I do the movent it senses it. The only problem I have with the controls is the repetititveness.
 
  
  
  Sound 8.5/10 - The rabbids make cute sounds and the music is nice. The only thing I have a problem 
 with is that RAYMAN sounds like a rabbid. The music games have good song choice!!
  
  
  Value 8.5/10- For a price of $49.99 (canadian) i think it is worth your money.
  
  
  Overall 
 8/10 - If you have a Wii get this game ASAP. I dare say its better then any MARIO PARTY ever invented. 
 Great game
  
  
  Vandersluis 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Link_Warrior
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 5, 2008 3:01 am PT
Review:  I got this game for Christmas unexpectedly and when I looked at it I thought that Id give it a 
 chance. So I put it in and started to play. after about twenty minutes I felt that there was no 
 point to this game and that it was going nowhere, so I played for another twenty Min's and I was 
 right! I apologised to the person that bought me the game and asked for the receipt, to my horror 
 they couldn't find it so now I'm stuck with it. I will try my best to get it exchange at a local 
 store but I feel that I wont have any luck! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 2, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids was the surprise hit of 2006. For what was merely a collection of minigames, 
 ended up being innovative and hilarious mainly due to the wacky insane rabbids.
  
  After being a successful Wii game, Ubisoft is trying to strike gold a second time around with the 
 sequel. This time the rabbids have invaded our world and set up their base of operations in a shopping 
 mall. Rayman infiltrates their base and has to participate in their games once more. However this 
 is where Rayman's part of the story ends. Rayman fans will be upset that our hero was more of an 
 afterthought in this game as you only play as him through the single player mode and most gamers 
 will opt to play as a rabbid for multiplayer games. What little story the first game had is pretty 
 much nonexistent in this. You just get a nice CG scene at the beginning.
  
  If you go solo, you'll find there's not much challenge. They dropped the walking through a stadium 
 to each game and have a quick and easy menu screen now. Select a country, play through six games 
 and you unlock a few costumes, a new music track and a shooter which you play separately in another 
 menu. While you will have to go through each country twice to unlock them all, this can be done 
 in an afternoon.
  
  The biggest improvement is the games. First of all, they support up to four players much better. 
 Instead of having to take turns like in the first game, almost all of them have simultaneous multiplayer 
 giving it a more Mario Party feel. The games themselves seem to play better with tighter controls 
 and the games still feel varied. You steer with the Wiimote sideways for racing games. You point 
 and click for some and you still have gold old shaking for others. The only one I hated was the 
 bumper car game because it didn't allow you to go in reverse. 
  
  The disco dancing music game has been replaced with a sort of knockoff of Rock Band. You select 
 which instrument you want to play and follow the screen and move the controls accordingly. The 
 option of different instruments encourages multiple playthroughs and it is still funny listening 
 and watching the bunnies sing and dance.
  
  What's most disappointing was the shooting game. The strongest game of the original has been terribly 
 stripped down for the support of four players. Gone is the grappling hook which allowed you to 
 grab and throw bunnies. Also gone is using the nunchuck to reload. Now you just push A which is 
 tough if you're used to shaking the nunchuck. Also the health meter is gone. If you take a hit, 
 you simply lose points. This removes a lot of the challenge. Despite all these flaws, the idea 
 of using real motion video for the shooting sequences is great. Unlike the days of the Sega CD, 
 the real time video runs pretty smoothly even if the camera moves slowly through the town. It is 
 a very creative idea. They even got a few actors to act scared and fall down when the rabbids attack 
 them.
  
  Graphically there's little to no improvement. I understand that this game is supposed to have a 
 simplistic art style but it still could've looked nicer than it did. Also while the multiplayer 
 aspect has improved there is still no online gameplay, just leaderboards and with so many other 
 Wii games going online now, this is just inexcusable.
  
  In the end, RRR2 is still as funny and still one of the best Wii mini game collections out there, 
 but like many mini game collections, it's better with friends and while I'm willing to forgive 
 some shortcomings this time, I may sit out of Raving Rabbids 3 unless they step it up more.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: funkymonkey4710
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game I was expecting a further developed storyline, better mechanics for the minigames, 
 and a much better games all around.
  
  Well Rayman Raving Rabbids 2 is not a step up from the first game, but it's not a steep step down 
 either. First of all this game has a worse plot then the first game. The Rabbids have come to Earth 
 to study our behaviour and take over and Rayman has to play second banana to them and disguise 
 himself as them and fit in.
  
  Well for one... I thought the game was about Rayman, but boy was I wrong! This game just screams 
 Rabbid title. It's sooo sad that they couldn't even add a sound clip for Rayman because when he 
 makes sounds it's a Rabbids voice not Raymans.
  
  Also they threw out the out mechanics for the shooting games by making it with no health, no different 
 modes, and a really annoying reloading system by showing your ammo on the cursor and not the HUD. 
 I have to admit though I love the live action backgrounds.
  
  Also it seems that nearly 1/3 of the games have you using the Wiimote in the same exact way only 
 in a different setting. Such as the Cell phone in the theater game... sure it's fun, but then you'll 
 notice that their are other games in the game that use the same exact control scheme, only in a 
 diff. environment. It's gets really repetive really fast.
  
  All in all I still like the game even though it's not as good as the first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oscarxm
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 8:39 pm PT
Review:  When I played Rayman Raving Rabbids 1 I was instantly addicted and had a ton of fun! I knew before 
 i got it that Rayman Raving Rabbids 2 was going to be an awsome game. I had to wait till Christmas 
 to get it and i regret getting Mario and Sonic at the olympic games before this. The story mode 
 may not be considered "long" or may not have much "depth". Also, the mini games may be easy to 
 unlock, but the most difficult and lengthy part of the game is getting 12000 points in every game 
 in order to get all the rabbid costumes. It is disappointing that the darth vader rabbid and the 
 naruto rabbid were removed, but this game is still down right awsome. If you liked the first Rayman 
 Raving Rabbids game, or even if your new the the Raving Rabbids series, you will love this game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirbyowns
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 12:13 am PT
Review:  Nothing much to say except i would buy it if i were you. reasons why 1. it is fun to play with 
 friends to. Has plenty of games 3. Rabbids are still the funny guys we enjoy. Well those are my 
 reasons why to get it. Don't get it if you want a really fun single player mode. Get it if you 
 want a game that you can have a good time playing it with your friends and family. I say it was 
 underrtaed ( thats just my opinion) . Over all I think it is just a game that you can enjoy. I wouldn't 
 go with game spot on this. Sorry gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rabbids_Rule
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  -Good competitive multiplayer
  -Shooting games are great
  -The Rock Band-style minigames are great fun and have good music
  -Minigames are still fun by 
 yourself
  -Conrols are realistic and fun
  -Lots of unlockables
  -Trying to get 12 000 points on every minigame to unlock a costume on level normal is a nice challenge
 
  -This game is really funny and is full of parodies
  -Customizing Rabbids and Rayman is pretty fun
  -Minigames on level normal add something new to 
 the game
  
  The Bad:
  -Minigames are a bit repetitive
  -Game is a little short
  -Graphics are bad
  
  This game is alot of fun and there are over 50 minigames. The Rock Band 
 style minigames are alot of fun and have great music. This game takes great advantage of the Wii 
 Remote and Nunchuk, and that is what really makes the game special. The minigames are alot of fun 
 and are also downright silly. Some people don't like the plunger shooting game, but I think they 
 are really fun. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fakescience
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids 2 is an underapreciated game just like the first one. I loved it, but there 
 are a couple things that do bring this game down a little.
  
  First of all while the sound is usually very good (Rabbids are awesome sounding) , I noticed one 
 HUGE flaw. Rayman has the exact same voices as the rabbids....... This gives the game a very, very 
 not yet done feel and ruins the presentation.
  
  Then there's the graphics. I was really torn between this. I love how the shooting levels are done. 
 The camera taken from actual locations looks pretty good when mixed with the in game characters. 
 Occasionally the frame rate slows down and the eneimies look crude, but for the most part they 
 have an interesting flare.
  
  Then there's the graphics for the other parts. They have a good style, and you can see there was 
 an amount of character design (the characters look great and are the highpoint along with the shooting 
 levels) But seeing chepaly animated backrounds is a bit annoying, and makes the game look like 
 an unprofessional game. The textures can look a bit muddy as well.
  
  One thing that shines though is the minigames. They are very fun to play, and the different locations 
 part makes them even more enjoyable.
  
  If you just want a fun game, I highly recomend this game. If you want great graphics as well, i'm 
 sorry to say there aren't many good looking mini game collections. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaza-for-wii
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  the good-
  
  -A few games that shine out and sparkle.
  -A guitar hero rip off that works brilliantly
  -On the rails shooters look stunning
  -Funny 
 little outfits
  
  the bad
  -Only 50 minigames
  -Many of the minigames dont stand ou, others feel like a chore.
  -The guitar hero rip off does 
 get boring
  
  Rayman raving rabbids is a party game sequel. I thought there was a storyline or something to bind 
 all the mini games together. How wrong was i. The minigames are split into continents. About 9 a continent, and 
 an on the rails shooter aswell. For doing well in a minigame you unlock a costume. My favourite was 
 the Assassins creed one. A few games stand out like the Indiana jones parody where you have to do 
 ALOT of shaking to run, or the volleyball game which I adored. But some arent fit for minigame status, like 
 swimming, which wears you out, and a clothes cleaning game! chores on a video game!
  
  All in all the game is good for a while but then just collects dust....6.7! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tantrumsberm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  I originally purchased this game only to play it with guests. However, once my wife and I got started 
 we couldn't put it down. I've never played the first Raving Rabbids but this one is tons of fun. 
 There are a good variety of games to play and the more you play, the more you unlock. We got a 
 good kick out of dressing the Rabbids up. The Rabbids actions are hilarious. My wife generally 
 has a pretty short attention span when it comes to games but she played this one for hours. She 
 especially enjoyed the dance/music parts at the end of each stage. We also enjoyed the shooting 
 game. Raddids 2 makes great use of the Wii-mote and nunchucks. Some games will tire you out like 
 Wii-Sports Boxing. Although it's a great game, playing the game solo just isn't as much fun as 
 enjoying it with others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 18, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  In case you somehow missed the first game. RRR 2 likes it first one is a collection of minigames 
 unlike any you have played before! Along with customizable characters and other small features. 
 But what makes the game (s) stand out is the crazy rabbids (rabbits) . They do such nutty things 
 that the humor really makes the game. Without it this game would probably be no more then beating 
 your head with a hammer.
  
  So how does it compare to the first one? Well they changed a few things for better and for worse.
 
  
  For one you no longer have to spend half the game watching and walking around in a annoying arena. 
 Its simple a mall background and you click signs (a hud you might say) of what you want to do. 
 Another thing they changed is the music games. No longed is is just clicking on silly rabbids to 
 weird timing. Now its exactly like Rock Band or Guitar Hero! Although sometimes the game doesn't 
 pick up your shaking and moving about and the rabbids actually sing making it alot funner. However 
 there is only 4 songs. You have more customizable options for your guys now including 4 rabbids! 
 Which is fun since you get to play them in all the games.
  
  The two big improvements are they changed the shooting game. For one its now separate from the 
 main game so you can play at your leisure! But aside from that its no longer the cartoon levels, 
 its now real world footage! They filmed places around the world (or so it looks) and did an amazing 
 job at adding the rabbids so it looks like they are fighting you in real life! Your little suction 
 cups hit real world objects and stick accordingly. It shows the effort put into the shooting game!
 
  
  The second big thing they did was make the game more party oriented. You can still play buy yourself 
 but the games really feel funner and almost are meant for more then one person. You can have 4 
 people playing the main game now which rocks! This perhaps makes the game the best in the series.... 
 BUT with any game its cons are what kill it...
  
  So what did they change for the worse? Overall theres not alot content this time around. Which 
 would be fine if it wasn't so boring. Don't get me wrong alot of it is better then the first, but 
 then some of it is either so pointless or boring you wonder why they even added it. Such as a game 
 where you simply have to hold both controller and nun-chuck up to your head and thats it. Thats 
 the game. No fancy moves or anything. At times some of the games are the exact same things as others. 
 And lets face it humor makes the game, if all your games aren't good then your hurting it every 
 time you make a mistake if thats all that is saving it (humor) . And alot of the games aren't as 
 simple as the directions make it look. So expect to yell at your tv a few times until you play 
 through again.
  
  While its no major deal I was disappointed the sound are the same. I was hoping for more crazy 
 random sounds! I love having rabbids doing weird sound! But oh well.
  
  Overall I'd rent it since you can beat it a day easily. Buy it if you think you just love RRR to 
 much! Its one of those games that is neither as good nor as bad as its first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryana-Chan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  As a huge fan of the first Rayman Raving Rabbids, I was surprised to see how low GameSpot's rate 
 for this sequel was. I rented it first to see for myself, and I was very disappointed. In the first 
 game, you had to play through the game alone before unlocking all the minigames. Now, in the sequel, 
 you're allowed to unlock minigames while playing with some friends, which is a great improvement, 
 considering that playing in single-player mode in Rayman Raving Rabbids 2 is very boring. It will 
 take you maybe an hour or two before you've played all the minigames available. In the first RRR, 
 all the Wiimote movements were well-used, but, for the most part in this sequel, the only thing 
 you'll have to do is shake the Wiimote crazily for a couple of seconds, and then the minigame will 
 be over. For the minigames that use more complex controls, some are not well explained and you 
 will have to learn while playing, and some minigames are just dull.
  
  Also, the game is supposed to be based upon the fact that the Rabbids take over our world, so the 
 scenery and minigames should be based on the continent they're visiting, right? Well, most of the 
 time, you won't see the link between the continent you're on and the minigames. Why are they playing 
 with bumper cars on a building roof in South America? Why are they racing in shopping carts on 
 top of a snowy mountain in Asia? And there are a lot of these. Plus, I'm still wondering why Rayman 
 sounds like a Rabbid.
  
  In the first RRR, the shooting games were great. In this sequel, they're no fun. The scenery is 
 good : they probably took pictures of real places in our world, and made the Rabbids invade this 
 place and walk through it, making it look like they really are, for example, in New York. Unfortunately, 
 the shooting games in RRR2 are not as fun as in the first one. In the first game, the controls 
 in the shooting games were great, so I don't understand why they decided to change them to weird 
 controls that don't work well. You shoot with B, which isn't a problem, but instead of recharging 
 your gun with a shake of the Nunchuk, you have to press A. Plus, you can't even grab the bunnies 
 and throw them anymore. They tend to put too many attacking Rabbids at the same time and it is 
 hard to aim, too, so you'll often get hit, considering you have no way to tell you are about to 
 be out of ammo before they tell you to press A to recharge, and even so, there is a slight delay 
 between the press of the button and the action. Fortunately, you can't die. Finally, you will find 
 that you stay way too long at the same place, and they are some moments where you can't even shoot, 
 and have to wait.
  
  The Music minigames, however, are really worth playing, especially in multiplayer. You will play 
 a song using the instrument you chose at the beginning. Some instruments are harder to play than 
 others, but playing them is very intuitive, and you'll get the hang of it the first time you'll 
 play. The game mechanics work great, and the movement detection is almost perfect - you may experience 
 some times where the game detects two hits of the remote when you only did one, but it rarely happens. 
 If you liked the music minigames in the first game, you'll definitely love these.
  
  However, most minigames are boring, especially in single-player mode. There are, though, some minigames 
 that are really worth playing, but unfortunately, there are very few of them. Some minigames are 
 only fun when you're playing with friends, like the one where you have to carry an hamburger to 
 a customer, or the one where you have to talk on the phone during a movie. The latter, however, 
 is only truly enjoyable with many players: you can send text messages to other players by repeatedly 
 pressing the A button, putting them in trouble, but for this to work, you have to play on the normal 
 difficulty, and if there are COM left in the game, they will dial so fast you will have no hope 
 of succeeding, unless they decided not to dial. Some minigames, like the baseball one, the music 
 ones or the one where you have to play the flute to charm a snake, are great even if you play alone. 
 Ubisoft tried to make the game more multiplayer-oriented, but the minigame selection lost most 
 of its quality in the process. There are few minigames - 50 in fact -, and most of them are no 
 fun at all, which means you'll often play the same ones over and over again, and you'll soon get 
 tired to play them, even the best minigames.
  
  The customization of your Rabbid's outfit is a great addition. You can dress your Rabbid the way 
 you want, selecting through a large variety of outfits. Unfortunately, unlocking the costumes taking 
 a long time and require you to play the minigames a lot of times. You can also customize a trip 
 of 6 minigames of your choice, which is a great idea, too.
  
  The franchise has a lot of potential, so it's sad that its quality is already lowering that much 
 after only the second entry. I played the first Rayman Raving Rabbids for months, but I grew tired 
 of its sequel after a few hours of playing. If you were a fan of the first one, you may try this 
 one, but I strongly suggest to rent it first before buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PiranhaFish
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 12:50 am PT
Review:  There are 50 great Mini Games.
  They are better than the ones in Rayman RR 1.
  Multiplayer is a dream. My sis is bad at gaming and picked it up and started beating me immediately.
 
  
  It is hilarious. 4 Players are optional in EVERY mini-game. You can customise your own character 
 for each time you play. Gamespot's 6.5/10 is rubbish, they obviously didn't really check out the 
 game well enough. 9/10 AT LEAST is more like it. The shooting games are funny, with real-life video 
 backgrounds. Hilarious.
  
  Single Player is also pretty decent. You can play all types of games that involve USA, South America, 
 Paris, and Asia.
  
  But buy it for the music mini's. BIG improvement over RR1. Really engaging and attracts crowds. 
 Great game for those friends that are not brilliant at games and keep annoyingly loseing at every 
 game you set them up to play.
  
  You will keep coming back for the multiplayer.
  
  I honestly deeply reccommend! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mecharayman
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  dahh started the whole rabbid games. It is a good game with some bad stuff and a lot of good minigames. 
 I will tell that the music ones are fun to. it is one of the best games of 07. Sometimes the controls 
 are hard to use. But if you can get used to it you will do fine. The game also lets you use nintendo 
 wi-fi connection. You use it to compete scores with people around the world. You could end up becoming 
 the best player in the world. Sometimes the plunger shootout games can be fun. The graphics in 
 those minigames are really good. The rabbids are still crazy and funny. This game will get you tired 
 after a few hours. You will be sweting after a few hours. You could dress up the rabbids, rayman 
 with costumes. There is over 100 costumes to use. The credits lets you know who created the game. This 
 ends the review of raymanravingrabbids2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SLjimbolian
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 3, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  One of the strongest strengths the Nintendo Wii has is its easy to pick-up multiplayer. Most of 
 us probably know by the now the hours and hours of mayhem and insanity that ensues while playing 
 with your friends. Whether it is Wii Sports, WarioWare: Smooth Moves, or Guitar Hero III, the Wii 
 is the best suited system for offline multiplayer.
  
  Last year's Rayman Raving Rabbids had the ball rolling with its wacky minigames and highly entertaining 
 design (homicidal/suicidal rabbits from space? I'm sold.) While there are plenty of "minigame heavy" 
 Wii games are that, Raving Rabbids 1 actually did things right with its crazy, yet innovative control 
 schemes and great multiplayer. However, the only problem with the first game was it was bit on 
 the short side with multiplayer games. UbiSoft addressed this in their latest edition of Raving 
 Rabbids, but Raving Rabbids 2 feels like a rushed job in order to meet the ever critical holiday 
 season.
  
  It's rather unfortunate that Raving Rabbids 2 seemed very promising while in development, but the 
 final product is a little bit on the short side. I was able to finish all of the single-player 
 mode under an hour and unlocked just about everything (additional costumes, levels, etc.) While 
 there's a hearty selection of over 50 games to play, you can't help but shake that feeling this 
 game could've had more to offer.
  
  On the other hand, the multiplayer really does shine this time around in Raving Rabbids 2. Nearly 
 all of the games are multiplayer-ready and offers a ton of fun. Raving Rabbids 2 is truly recommended 
 if you intend to play it a lot with your buddies.
  
  One word of warning though: some of the levels can either be a bit too easy or too hard to figure. 
 There were a couple of stages where I'm violently waggling my controller around to make my guy 
 move, but he just stood their idly. In fact, the instructions sometimes can be a little obscure 
 while you're trying to figure out what exactly you're suppose to do. For example (follow me on 
 this one) , one level has you escaping from a ravenous monkey while strapped into a bucket and jumping 
 towards the finish line (why a finish line? Who knows.) It felt like the controls were unresponsive 
 to some of my movements as this can also be a problem for other games like the rhythm-based levels. 
 It takes a little patience and perseverance to manage through these stages.
  
  Overall, despite a few flaws here and there, Raving Rabbids 2 really excels in providing a great 
 multiplayer for everyone. However, if you plan on mostly playing solo in Raving Rabbids 2, I really 
 wouldn't recommend this game for you. You'll breeze through the game within no time and that's 
 about it. Otherwise, this one belongs in your party collection. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spicykit
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids 2 is not comparable to Rayman Raving Rabbids 1 at all. I am not sure the 
 target audience for Rayman Raving Rabbids 2 but I can say the games are only fun for kids (for 
 someone below 12 years old) . There viturally no storyline and the unlocked rabbids shotting games 
 with the city view are totally lame. I am quite disappointed at the development team. Maybe it's 
 too rush for them to get 2 out? Rayman Raving Rabbids 1 is soooooooo much better. I finished RRR2 
 in 4 hours... actually I think I should have finished it sooner if I didn't take "boring" break 
 in between to do something more fun. Anyway, don't buy. Rent it if you have some video store coupon. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nilojose
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  I been playing the game for like two week, and im a fan of the first one. in my opinion is a decent 
 party game but the lack of challenge take the fun out of the solo part of it. I find the mini games 
 kind of dumb and too easy, unlike the first one. With the first one me and my friends had fun for 
 hours no problem, but this one get us bored to quick. But it was a lil entratain. I like the changing 
 wrabits costumes. Also something that bother that the gun game are not part of the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankeyser
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  When I picked up my Wii day 1 one of the five games I took home with me was Rayman raving rabbids. 
 It was a blast! I drown rabbits with carrot juice, suffocated them with plungers, slapped bunnies 
 singing out of tune and pulled worms out of there teeth. 
  It was some of the most fun i had, had with a mini game collection since the first wario ware on 
 the GBA.
  I looked forward to some more bunny zanniness with the seqaul... It is zanny no doubt... but somehow 
 they removed the fun?
  In the first game the wii more was utilized very well for the most part. In the sequal... you just 
 shake it... shake it some more... and then shake it harder.
  Where are the great mechanics like jump ropping and swinging cows with my wiimote and nunchuck? 
 gone to what feels like should have been a game about miracas but they for got to include a miraca 
 game to go with the controls...
  If you loved the first game avoid this game!
  If you like shaking your remote all the time for no reason other than you need something to do.. 
 then buy this craptastic game. If you have a grandmother that has seizures this is the game for 
 her! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zelphar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  I have to agree with these 16 other reviewers. This game is fun! (hear that Gamespot!?!) 
  
  The single player is ok. Most games suck on singleplayer, I only play them to break Globox's 
 records. (Stupid 12,000) 
  
  But Multiplayer... me and my friends played The Office and Rabbid School for HOURS! 90% of the 
 mini games are fun, with highlights such as The Office, American Football, Buggerini, Burp, Fart 
 Wars and Dial R for Rabbid!
  A few, well arn't so good. There's one game (can't remeber name) where you slap a bunny with a 
 hotdog until it falls asleep. That game's a shoot-and-miss. 
  
  The shooting levels are fun, the music games are AMAZING!!!!!!!!!
  I've had it since it came 
 out and I stil play it like there's no tommorow.
  All in all, it's an awsome game. (Why, Gamespot, why???) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmonkey012
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  I loved Rayman Raving Rabbids. The game was hilarious, original, and fun to play. This sequel dissapointed 
 me. Its still good. But its not anything that I expected. This game's minigames arent that fun. 
 The original took full control of the Wii's motion sensors. All you do in this one is wave your 
 arms up and dow. The graphics actually got worse. This game is funny but not nearly as funny as 
 the first one. It seemed like they didn't put much effort in this one.
  
  THE GOOD; The rabbids are back. There are a lot of costumes to unlock.
  
  THE BAD; Worse graphics. 
 Not that funny. Not as fun as the original.
  
  OVERALL; If somebody asked me their opinion, I'd highly recomend the first one over this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andy237
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  I feel insulted when i play this game. Ubisoft obviously rushed this game out the door unfinished 
 just in time for the holiday season. It's too bad they spent their budget on a national advertising 
 campaign instead of good writers, programmers and testers.
  
  Can i ask 1 question...? 
  
  Why does the game give me the option of posting my score after every mini-game to some non-existent 
 online wi-fi score board? And I mean EVERY time you play a minigame, even if you score 0 (ZERO) 
 points. Why would i want to post that for the world to see? And it doesn't even work!!!! I get 
 an error every single time.
  
  Anyways people, wait till the price goes down on this one. Or just don't buy it. Play Rayman1.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: goldfishd
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  Was really looking forward to the sequel from a Ammmazing original ..... very, very disappointed, 
 the shoot out stages are creative with actual pics of the surroundings, but this makes it loose 
 its appeal of being nonsense. Some of the mini-games where good, but really not enough to save 
 it. The multiplayer doesnt have the same appeal as the first time around, and the single player 
 is just poo. The game had been returned to the shop within 48 hours. This game was a sad disappointment, 
 had to play the first after it just to remind myself that everything was going to be Ok?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: broncosfan375
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  By far this game is one of the best (and many) party games for the wii. Its everything part 1 was 
 and a little more. The games are hilarious in many ways and there is lots of laugh out loud humor. The 
 games in this one are better and the shooting games are unique because it incoporates the actual 
 world with rabbids. This game is focused more on multiplayer and thats a good thing. With notable 
 games and excellenet multiplayer feature and a character custumization mode thats expanded this 
 game will keep you busy till the next one trying to get the highest scores to post on wifi leader 
 boards. Lets hope there will be a rabbids three. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blixke
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 3:05 am PT
Review:  Rayman Raving rabbids is a great and solid game. With solid i totally mean in its genre of party 
 games. There is no story mode like in the first instalment but thats not that necessary. U can 
 choose to go to different continents, 5 in total. There are at least 55 Mini games that i know 
 off. 10 for each continent and 5 shooters. U can play it in multi player what is a real step up 
 from the last 1. The fact that u can directly upload ure high scores on the web is great to. Ppl 
 who are competitive will enjoy the fun to reach a certain spot on those lists!
  
  U enjoy party games?
  U enjoy to laugh and watch rabids to the hilarious of stuff?
  U have 
 at least 1 friend to play with?
  
  Then this is the game for you :D
  
  I can't wait for a third installment and all i can say is, add an Internet option to play on line. 
 Must be even more fun to play. And even with more then 4 in 1 game :D
  
  Vavi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IloveRayman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  We waited and waited for those crazy Rabbids to be jumping into the fray again, and now they are 
 back. The game starts out with Rayman infiltrating 
  the Rabbids mall base by putting a couple of socks on his hair, putting on a
  headband with fake 
 rabbid eyes, and inhaling some helium to make himself
  sound like a rabbid. With this stupid disguise, Rayman flawlessly gets into the
  base, where 
 the rabbids are learning about humans by watching pictures
  of cheese sandwiches and toilets, among other things. This gets us started out playing those dastardly 
 minigames. They have a more polished feel this time around, maybe it has something to do with the 
 fact that the rabbids are trying, (and failing miserably, but they don't know that!) to act like 
 us in order to take over the world. That gives us enough stuff for a game right there.
  Of course, the music minigames make a comeback, with such obscure and
  awesome songs as Smoke 
 on the Water, Satisfaction, Celebration, and even
  some 50's music! I have to admit that the shooting games are less
  then they were before. But 
 they are still fun enough to play with.
  Add to that the fact that 12000 points in any minigame can get you a new costume to dress your 
 rabbid up in, and there are over 70 costumes, and you have got yourself a game that we will playing 
 for a while, even after we win everything! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MYWIIWII5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is easily said funny and entertaining but it still does not capture the gameplay in rabbids 
 #1. the graphics are a bit rusty too. overall the game is a great load of minigames. thats really 
 all. the single player is hard to understand. Dont bother to try and understand whats going on. If 
 your a party lover, no game would satisfy you more than this. Except for mabye raving rabbids #1. If 
 your a hardcore gamer, dont bother reading this review. Go look at zelda twilight of the princess. This 
 game would have done much better if these hardcore games like Halo 3 or Crysis, Zelda if i didn't 
 mension, were yet to release. Its a must get game for a slumber party cause it would leave you laughing 
 at night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mizraal
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids isn't really a Rayman game. It's a Rabbid's game with a Rayman cameo, but 
 that aside, it's a fun solid mini-game collection. Ubi-soft has gone a long way towards improving 
 the multiplayer aspect and some of the mechanics and the story (what little there was) has suffered, 
 but the changes have definitely made the game more fun and exciting during group play.
  
  Beyond the opening cut-scene the game's story is almost non-existent , but I wasn't expecting a 
 lot of story, just Rabbid insanity. On that point Raving Rabbids 2 provides it's share. The opening 
 videos prior to most of the games are a riot and can be watched a couple times through before you 
 start skipping through them.
  
  In the mini-game department most of the games are solid, but the game mechanics are a little dumbed 
 down from the first and the mechanics aren't as innovative in their execution. This isn't to say 
 the games aren't fun, in fact they're now even better for group play. They seem a lot shorter then 
 the first Raving Rabbids and it helps keep things lively, especially during multi-player competitions. 
 As a whole there are fewer frustrating games this time around and fewer games that drag on too 
 long. 
  
  The new music/song set up is great and to me more fun then the dance games in the original Raving 
 Rabbids. I do miss the dancing bunnies, but they can still be watched in the Mall Plaza by the 
 Jukebox. My main complaint is there are only 5 songs (one is un-lockable) , but this is counterbalanced 
 by the fact that each song has four separate parts that you can play.
  
  The rail shooters are just as fun this time around. They are a little longer, and slower paced, 
 but they have real world backgrounds that adds to the World Invasion theme. One major disapointment 
 is that the nun-chuck is not used at all and the grappling mechanic has been dropped. On the plus 
 side there are a larger variety of bunnies and special bunny targets that, when combined with a 
 gold medal score, unlock new costumes.
  
  I'm very pleased with the multi-player format and while I was initially disapointed you couldn't 
 unlock items in multi-player, I realized this was this was done to give the single player portion 
 more playability and to prevent exploitive cooperation in unlocking. They really excelled with 
 the unlockable costume pieces. In addition you can unlock a couple more bunnies to dress up and 
 an extra song to add to the four you start with. I wish they had included unlockable videos, but 
 overall I'm content with the costume pieces.
  
  I'm a little dissapointed they didn't have some of the innovative mechanics or variations of some 
 of the games from the first Raving Rabbids but overall I think it's a solid game and one of the 
 better mini-game collections right now. The games are fast paced and fun, and a blast to play with 
 friends. Like the first game you will get a work out and watching people play is about as fun as 
 playing the game itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmconstable
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  RRR2 is a much better multi-player game than RRR1. Having said so I think the single player is 
 not as good as the previous game. I feel as though the single player is not held together by any 
 plot whatsoever. However, the menu system is better than the first game. The shooting is good in 
 the game, but I miss the nunchuk reload as you have to have the stupid nunchuk to play the entire 
 game with 4 people anyway. Still once you get used to it there is no real issue with it. I would 
 recommend this to anyone, but be warned you should not expect this game to be like the last one. 
 The thing tying them together is the Rabbids. Some critics have stated the use of the Wiimote is 
 not that good, but there is no problem with it and most all of the game are just plain fun. It 
 is a great party game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefanforlife
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  Rayman is back again to stop those crazy rabbids this time those rabbids are trying to take over 
 the world. Rayman dresses like one and sounds like one to fit in with them and wreck the evil bunnies 
 plan. 
  
  The first game was something but the 2nd is more better and has more fun to it. Now i had a choice 
 to get Super Mario Galaxy or this and im not disappointed with this game at all its a fantastic 
 game. 
  
  The Wii-mote and nunchuk i used in so many ways like a mobile phone, like a car you just see it 
 all in the game. The mini game there's about 50 all are fun and have a online leader board where 
 you can put it on the raving rabbids website. 
  
  Now as for the games there is bumper cars where you have to crash the other rabbids off the building, 
 volleyball, are we there yet this is were your in a car and you have to slap the rabbids when there 
 been annoying, there is a rip of jackass where your in shopping trolleys all mini games are just 
 so much fun. 
  
  There is the shooting mode now in this you get to go to America and Paris in real time it is real 
 footage with the bunnies placed in there which looks stunning. This is funny as you see the bunnies 
 attacking real people in places. The only bad thing i found about this game it has a story to it 
 which is good but there is no ending unless there saving it untill Raving Rabbids 3
  
  This is a great party game also adds to a great single player game to with the leader board you 
 will want to fight your way to first place thats what i am trying to do. Ubisoft lets hope you 
 keep these games coming because it just makes you laugh. It would be great to see the bunnies get 
 their own platform game i hope so. 
  
  Overall
  The good points
  - Bunnies make you laugh
  - Makes good use out of the Wii-Mote and Nunchuk
  - Online Leader 
 board
  - Graphics look nice
  - Mini Games are fun
  
  The bad points
  - Missing the end after finishing story mode. 
  - TV Spots are not included.
  
  IGN may of 
 rated this game a little bad but dont listen to them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CptSquirrly1091
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  OK, so i picked up the game on the 15th and thought "Man this game is going to rock!". Turns out 
 i was right!! Even though the number of mini-games has decreased by a lot, this game offered MUCH 
 more humor and length when it came down to the mini-games! The Wi-Fi scoreboards are also something 
 that added more of a reason to play mini-games repeatedly. I have no regrets on buying before renting 
 considering that my friends also love the game as well, and it gives me something to do for awhile! 
 Id recommend this game for anyone who enjoyed the first one OR just wants to have a good time with 
 some friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThatGrungeKid18
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  I was a huge fan of the first Raving Rabbids and i love the fun minigames, they come in handy when 
 u have friend over and are looking to have a good time. Rayman Raving Rabbids 2 is awsome because 
 the rabbid coustomization is so much better, there are less mini games, but not really it just 
 feels that way. The first game simply used the same 35-40 mini games and gave em new names and 
 small changes this one has completly different games and new score submission online. Wii hasnt 
 been sooo impressive of late but im impressed with the Rayman games i must say. Friends and I love 
 playing these games when i have company its just a blast, and i suggest if u have gaming friends 
 who dont like just watching you play you grab this game and get everyone involved! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightchaosX
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  ray-man raving rabbids 2 is a very good game if you like goof ball games. but if you like single 
 role plays or RP-Gs you might not like this game .this game has good graphics and is easy to play. 
 all you need to do is follow the instructions before every mini game.. this game is short but funny. 
 this game would probably last you 4 week s before you stop playing for a while. In other words rrr2 
 is not one of those games that ill last 2 months or even a year or so. other then that the game 
 is just fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diva-of-Destiny
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Absolutely hilarious fun, makes great use of the Wii-mote, unique compared to other games, 
 and did I mention absolutely hilarious?!
  
  The Bad: This great game really deserves better graphics.
  
  The Wii had a few great launch 
 titles, Rayman Raving Rabbids (the first edition) being one of them. But there has not been even 
 ONE post-launch title that has appealled to me or that I have enjoyed until now, a year later. 
 (Note: I picked up RRR2 and Super Mario Galaxy on the same trip as they both were released this 
 week, and was having to much fun with RRR2 I haven't had a chance to try SMG yet, so I am not including 
 SMG in the "disappointing" post launch title category) . I had high hopes for Rayman Raving Rabbids 
 2, but I had faith because the first edition was hilarious fun, and I am not let down by the sequel 
 that is even better. (I enjoyed the first edition so much I played the Wii and the Xbox360 versions!) . 
 My poor, lonely Wii has been collecting dust for almost a year, shunned because of the games coming 
 out, while I revelled in Xbox360 goodness but now I have a good, solid reason to put down that 
 xbox360 remote and pick up the Wii-mote.
  
  The "raving rabbids" or rabbits in Rayman Raving Rabbids 2 are truly my favorite characters EVER 
 in a video game. Rayman Raving Rabbids 1 won "funniest videogame game character 2006" voted by 
 Gamespot members last year for very good reason. This is the funniest game I've ever played, and 
 with funny naturally is FUN. I find myself laughing out loud constantly while playing this game. 
 The rabbits, their antics, their voices, and their mannerisms are gut-bustingly hilarious, and 
 I want to keep playing to see what they do next. In this second installment, once you unlock minigames 
 by beating them, they become available in Free Mode, and this time you can BE the bunnies! Even 
 better, you have a plethora of costumes to unlock for the bunnies that you can use on them in free 
 mode, in addition to Rayman's costumes... but everyone knows this game is all about the Rabbids 
 now (sorry, Rayman!) . 
  
  The minigames are different and fun, and use the Wii-mote in different ways. This game really offers 
 excellent wii-mote control and takes full advantage of it's potential. Anything you can do with 
 a wii-mote, this game has it covered! The frantic nature of most of the minigames gives a great 
 level of excitement. You can play them alone, or play multiplayer with friends for a real party 
 experience. But this is definitely a minigame that does not require additional players to be great 
 fun, like some others.
  
  The graphics don't seem to live up to potential, and it's the biggest reason my score is not higher. 
 True, wii games don't stand out for graphics compared to HD-compatible consoles. But I really would 
 have liked to have seen better... this game deserves it. But when all is said and done, it's not 
 a big deal compared to the fun and hilarity, and it should not stop anyone from buying the game.
 
  
  As far as Wii games go this is an absolute must-buy. This week we finally have the best game (maybe 
 games plural - I still need to pop Mario Galaxy in and try it) for the Wii in a very long time. 
 If your Wii is collecting dust like mine was, it's time to pick up Rayman Raving Rabbids 2 and 
 dust it off! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarevoc1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  After seeing the critics low score for this game I was very disappointed. I loved the original 
 Rayman Raving Rabbids on the Wii and this one appeared to make it even better by adding a little 
 more of a story (Rabbids taking over the world) and taking further advantage of the wii-mote. We 
 went ahead and bought part 2 anyway and boy am I glad I didn't listen to the critics. Granted, 
 I haven't spent a great deal of time playing the game yet, but unless it really takes a nose dive, 
 I'm actually enjoying part 2 more so than the original. I have completely lost faith in official 
 critics for games. It's good to see that the user community seems to agree with me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenHounk911
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain stupid fun. The mini games are quirky, fun and addictive. It has tons of 
 clever ways to hold the wii remote. There are lots of unlockables. This is strictly a party game. 
 Get this, get 3 more pairs of remotes and have some fun. The movie and game parodies are pretty 
 funny. Some of the CGI movies are laugh out loud funny and those damn rabbids antics are just hilarious. 
 Single player game is kinds slow and repetetive but this was obviously built from the ground up 
 to be a multiplayer game. 3 more words = 100! Hooray. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poio1982
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  This Rabbits will blow your mind out!!!
  you will dream with rabbits!!!
  
  
  RABBIT INVASION !!!!!!!
  
  this game is halarius
  this game is a joke
  this game is funny
 
  this game is extreme
  this game is addictive
  this game is Wii
  this game rocks
  thos rabbits are just crazy!
  and Rayman is just da man!
  single player mode in story rocks!
 
  multi player also rocks!
  This is like Resident Evil Umbrella Chron. goes Rabbit
  i guess this game is kind of like the basic of video gaming,
  be fun and entretainment
  i guess 
 one of the best games for the Wii
  
  i luv this game!
  
  and i do not rabbit care!
  
  RABBIT INVASION !!!!!!!
  RABBIT INVASION !!!!!!!
  RABBIT INVASION !!!!!!!
  RABBIT INVASION 
 !!!!!!!
  RABBIT INVASION !!!!!!!
  RABBIT INVASION !!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luchoadm
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  Bueno hoy he adquirido el juego llevo aproximadamente 3 horas jugandolo, me parece simplemente 
 sensacional.
  
  Es la misma esencia de la primera parte, pero esta vez es 4 veces mejor a nivel de jugabilidad, 
 de creatividad, de locura y de todo.
  
  No he tenido la oportunida de jugarlo en multiplayer pero aseguro que debe ser una muy grata experiencia.
 
  
  Sinceramente recomiendo este juego, y hacia mucho tiempo que no tenia un juego tan EXCELENTE en 
 mis manos.
  
  Video ... 8
  Audio ...8
  Jugabilidad ....10
  Dificultad ... 10
  PERFECTO
  
  Los dejo porque voy a seguir jugando todo el dia hasta el cansancio 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
