-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rayman Raving Rabbids TV Party
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/raymanravingrabbidstvparty/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Same insane Raving Rabbid sense of humor.
 Terrific mock TV broadcast presentation.
 Wii balance board adds some interesting control options.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Stale motion controls make most games a chore.
 Clunky multiplayer doesn't realize its potential.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 7.2, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 183 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Paris
Genre: Party
Date: Nov 18, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The crazy sense of humor remains intact, but hackneyed and rudimentary motion controls have lost 
 almost all of their luster. 

  In two short years, the Wii minigame genre has gone from relatively novel concept to full-blown 
 phenomenon. The original Rayman Raving Rabbids was released at the forefront of this trend, successfully 
 stringing together a collection of absurd challenges that relied on simple motion controls and 
 an offbeat sense of humor to create a fresh and oddly compelling overall package. Now Ubisoft has 
 released the series' third game, Rayman Raving Rabbids TV Party, at a time when the genre has grown 
 bloated and stagnant. Although TV Party manages to expand on the series' trademark wacky sense 
 of humor with a newfound focus on television pop culture, the gameplay has remained mired in the 
 realm of diminishing returns by failing to improve in any notable way. TV Party simply relies too 
 heavily on its sense of humor to mask the fact that the extremely basic motion controls that make 
 up the bulk of the gameplay have collected a thick layer of dust.  

           TV Party's newfound focus on mocking cable TV adds a fresh new set of laughs to the presentation. 

  In TV Party, the titular raving rabbids are just as insane as ever, but this time around they've 
 extended their reign of terror to the television airwaves. In their effort to continually haunt 
 poor platforming mascot Rayman, the rabbids have hijacked a TV station and are now broadcasting 
 their own twisted programming directly to Rayman's home. It's a thin plot told via a small handful 
 of prerendered cutscenes, but what it does is lay the premise for an entertaining overall presentation. 
 There's a mock cable-broadcast look and feel to the whole thing that has the rabbids imitating 
 everything from zombie B movies to high-fashion runway shows. These oddball scenarios combine with 
 flashy onscreen graphics and incoherent rabbid screaming to create a rather funny send-up of the 
 squawking chorus of voices that makes up most of cable TV.  

  The TV format also affects the way the game's solo campaign is organized. Each minigame is essentially 
 a stand-alone show, and you're the master in charge of deciding which programming makes the airwaves. 
 What that entails is completing a minigame of your choosing to fill a timeslot, which unlocks the 
 next batch of shows to play during the next hour. Shows are organized by channel, with stations 
 such as extreme sports, music, movies, and reality television all combining for more than 50 minigames. 
 One great thing about this system is that it gives you a lot of freedom to choose which games you 
 want to play to advance and unlock more programming variety.  

  Unfortunately, freedom of choice and genuinely amusing slapstick humor can take these minigames 
 only so far. The vast majority rely on bare-bones, occasionally unresponsive motion controls that 
 don't feel like they've evolved in the least bit since the original game. There are light-gun sequences 
 in which you merely point and shoot for several minutes, racing games in which you do little more 
 than tilt the remote left and right and flick it for speed boosts, and rhythm games that have you 
 shaking the remote and Nunchuk to match scrolling icons. Even the dreaded act of shaking both controllers 
 as frantically as possible appears in the form of a horse-jockey game. A lot of these games at 
 least come with amusing scenarios such as exercising with a bearded rabbid made to look like Chuck 
 Norris, or riding a wildebeest like a snowboard, but that novelty wears off after one or two play-throughs, 
 leaving you with a control scheme that feels hackneyed and thoroughly unrewarding.  

           Most games resort to tired motion controls, like the point-and-shoot light gun games. 

  Some games, though, either look beyond motion controls, or employ the use of the balance board 
 to make them more exciting. In the former camp is a fashion-designer game in which you dress up 
 your rabbid in articles of clothing according to hilariously arbitrary criteria such as "cool and 
 hairy, but not funny," and then submit your design to judges. In the latter category are the dancing 
 games that have you matching hand gestures and foot taps to licensed songs such as "ABC" and "Jungle 
 Boogie." The balance board is less interesting in the racing games, during which you're steering 
 with your feet (or even butt, in many cases) , but for the most part it's a welcome addition that 
 adds at least a little bit more excitement to simple minigames.  

  TV Party's multiplayer bears a very strong resemblance to the solo campaign, but a bit more streamlining 
 would have made it feel like more of a party. Up to eight players (taking turns in two groups on 
 four remotes and Nunchuks) can take part in the same games offered to solo players. Some games 
 give the chance to play four at a time, but a disappointingly large number restrict access to a 
 single player at once. You can decide from the outset on the scoring system and the number of days' 
 worth of programming to play through, and the winner of each game then decides which show the players 
 will take part in next. Unfortunately, it's a system that presents way too much downtime between 
 games in the form of loading, menu-navigating, and other time sinks to really let the frantic nature 
 of the gameplay shine through.  

  Visually, TV Party is an example of how character and outright absurdity can make up for what are 
 only so-so graphics. There's generally enough insanity onscreen to make you look beyond the bland 
 models and textures, while the similarly avant-garde animated cutscenes that play out before and 
 after each game certainly don't hurt. Sound is also a plus, as the rabbid screaming goes well alongside 
 the TV jingles to make for a fun and borderline insane experience.  

           Controlling vehicles with your butt while using the balance board has a strange charm 
 to it.      

  Altogether, Rayman Raving Rabbids TV Party isn't without its charms. It's an often laugh-out-loud 
 game that's overflowing with a quirky sense of humor. It's just unfortunate that the controls haven't 
 aged as well as the gags in this third installment of the Raving Rabbids series in as many years. 
 Quite simply, the rudimentary and tired motion controls have lost almost all of their luster, and 
 consequently most challenges feel like an all-too-familiar chore rather than an exercise in chaotic 
 excitement.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wolfpackfrenzy
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 1, 2009 12:22 pm PT
Review:  This game, although it has a single player campaign, it is really meant to be a multiplayer experience. 
 So, with that said, the single player mode was a pretty poor, you just play the same games only 
 by yourself. I had a feeling the game was going to be pretty lame. We played the dancing mini games 
 at brothers house and enjoyed them so we bought tv party for ourselfs. Dancing is the only reason 
 to get it, the other games are somewhat stupid. I didn't really find them funny and comical like 
 the RRR2 games.
  
  
  Story 4/10:
  You get a series of cut scenes, which kind of tell a story about rabbids being trapped in a TV 
 and irritating rayman. But otherwise its pretty lame.
  
  Gameplay 6/10
  Dancing was really fun. If all the games were as fun as the dancing, then it would have better 
 rating. I'm not even a rhythem/DDR person, but the tv party appealed to me. Many games are of racing 
 or sleding where only one person can play at a time. Which might have been ok it the it was 30sec, 
 but a race can easily last 3minutes which means its boring for the other players. I don't have 
 a WiiFit board, so maybe I'm loosing something from the experience. Whats with all the costumes??? 
 You collect them but you can't even use them while playing?! Why did they change this? RRR2 was 
 cool cause each player could decorate their rabbid, which was fun to see what each player would 
 come up with.
  
  Controls 6.5/10
  In general the controls were ok. Many times the drawing games wouldn't recognize a simple line. 
 The music instrument games suck, they're way too sensitive and difficult to time correctly. RRR2 
 was better in the music arena.
  
  Sound 6.5/10
  Nothing outstanding about the sound. The instrument songs are suck, but I enjoyed the classic songs 
 from the dancing games. The menu music will drive you nutz pretty quickly.
  
  Graphics 6/10
  Nothing outstanding about the graphics. Kind of on par for all the previous rabbid 
 games, cept maybe the wrestler guys they were horrible.
  
  Fun 6.5/10
  When played with a group of people, this game has the potential to be fun. Dancing is fun in groups, 
 which is what we enjoy anyways. Single player is boring.
  
  *************
  Overall 6/10
  ************* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blue4avenger
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2009 7:41 am PT
Review:  I have to be honest I never played the previous two Raving Rabbids games for the Wii. I've read 
 great things about both games and heard from friends that the games were a blast to play. I finally 
 decided enough was enough and I had to get the newest version to hopefully find out just what I 
 was missing. Well, TV Party might not reinvent the party gaming experience for the Wii but it's 
 still a blast to play, this time either solo or with friends.
  
  The premise with TV Party is that the Rabbids are stuck inside a television and they start re-enacting 
 the shows in their own unique wackiness. All of the games are actually episodes based upon shows 
 you might even recognize today. For example, you get a Dancing with the Stars knockoff that has 
 you competing in a dance competition with the Rabbids as the judges. Then you get a COPS-like show 
 where you're trying to escape from the police. Each episode/game is presented in the crazy humor 
 that the previous Rayman Raving Rabbids games have been known for.
  
  The overall structure of the game is played out in a TV guide presentation. There are certain blocks 
 of time made up of three hours that you have to play through. Once you select a block you then 
 are presented with the channel guide to pick the show you're going to play. During the games you'll 
 have to earn a specific score to unlock the next block of time and the next day. Honestly no one 
 should have a problem scoring enough points to keep the game moving and unlocking the additional 
 blocks and days. 
  
  The games do a solid job of keeping you entertained without feeling like you're being swallowed 
 up into a real game. The games are all short mini games that last no more than a few minutes. You 
 get a decent variety in different genres from racing, light guns, dancing and even a music game. 
 The controls felt solid and responsive in most of the games with only the music game being the 
 exception. You have to wave your nunchuk and Wii-mote to match the onscreen scrolling chart. For 
 some reason the Wii-mote waves had a problem being registered by the game. It was never enough 
 to cause me to really screw up but it did cause some minor headaches.
  
  What seemed to be the big difference maker, to me anyway, with TV Party and the other party games 
 on the Wii is using the Wii Fit Balance Board. TV Party uses the Balance Board in many of the games 
 and even pokes fun at Wii Fit by including a fitness game with huge out of shape wrestlers for 
 you to follow. You get several different control setups depending on the game you're playing. For 
 example, some games will have you sitting on the board and leaning left or right to steer. Another 
 game will have you putting your feet on the board while sitting in a chair and using the board 
 as a gas and brake pedal. Other games have you using the board like a surfboard or using it as 
 a dance pad to make moves. The nice part of the game is that you don't have to use the Balance 
 Board for these games. You can still play them with the Wii-mote and nunchuk. Yet if you own a 
 Balance Board TV Party is a great reason to break it out and use it.
  
  Even though the games are fun there still seems to be a lack of variety in the games. After playing 
 for a few hours you start to notice that you're playing the same games over again. You're progressing 
 to different parts of those games but the actual experience is still the same. So you'll find yourself 
 having to play what feels to be the same games over and over again. But this is the similar curse 
 of other mini-game collections for the Wii. You only get so many mini-games before you start playing 
 the same ones over and over again. 
  
  For multiplayer you do get a Party Mode that can support up to eight players. Sure, the system 
 might support up to four Wii-motes and nunchuks but TV Party allows you to rotate the controllers 
 among all of the players. The Party Mode offers Sabotage moments that allow gamers sitting on the 
 sidelines to interfere with the players currently playing. You can have to look out for these moments 
 since they show up only briefly before disappearing. There are also even smaller mini games that 
 resemble game shows or news bulletins that will pop up from time to time after playing a game in 
 Party Mode. 
  
  For me the best part of the game was the humor. This game is a riot to watch. There are plenty 
 of funny moments with the Rabbids acting completely absurd at all times. The overall look of the 
 game does a great job of replicating the feel of the craziest and wackiest television programs 
 you've probably have ever seen. My favorite was the Dawn of the Rabbids light-gun games, based 
 on the Dawn of the Dead zombie movie. You shoot not the zombies but the Rabbid chickens running 
 around the set trying to ruin the movie. It was a great tongue in cheek type of moment that I loved.
 
  
  Overall, this is one of the best looking and most humorous games you'll find for the Wii. The Rabbids 
 are just plain silly and absurd which is the overall vibe of the game. The graphics keep the cartoony 
 look intact during all of the games which fit the tone of the game great. If only we had more variety 
 in the actual mini, then the game would definitely score higher. But even then TV Party is still 
 what a game should be: fun!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zzyoshiman
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2008 11:58 pm PT
Review:  The Rabbids are back on their third game . Even though some people think it is disappointing, and 
 others think that it is a good game, I think it is a good game. The graphics are decent for the 
 wii I have seen better, but I have seen worse. The game play is good, lots of rabbid slap stick 
 humor and lots of DAAAHS and BWAAAAHS. The controls are OK, though most mini games the controls 
 are great, but some are a little bit bad, like on the shake it channel it is sometimes hard to 
 move when dancing. Other than that, up to eight people can play this game, and this game lets you 
 use wifi for contests. Probably the best thing about this game is that it is fun by playing by yourself, 
 or with other people. I wouldn't say this is the worst of the Rayman Raving Rabbids but it is very 
 good, with $39.99 you should give it a shot. Rayman Raving Rabbids TV Party gets a four out of 
 five. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabbids
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 30, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Ill just call it TV party for the review. TV party presents many new ideas and also uses many of 
 the concepts from the previous games. many of the minigames in TV party were taken from the other 
 two games. The humor comes more from the sometimes mindless Rabbids, and the strange things that 
 they do. The main concept of TV party is the Rabbids broadcasting on TV, in many cases trying parodies 
 of what humans would do, but the Rabbids, in their stupidity, dont do it right, which makes for 
 some strange results. In RRR 2, the "Rabbid band" game was used, and it returns here with many 
 different things. Lefty mode is inplimented, which is great 'cuz im left-handed =D. There are pretty 
 strange songs, and instruments, and many different places to perform. The graphics are just like 
 the other two were. If you have played the other two games, you will probably like the third game 
 as well. As I said in my RRR 2 review, I think the Rayman Raving Rabbids series are the best third-party 
 games available for the Wii so far. I totally disagree with the GS rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 28, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabbids TV Party : A mini-game compilation on the Wii. Surprise surpise.
  
  Story : I guess, it consists of a bunch of neurotic rabbits discovering the joy of television and 
 living vicariously through their favorite brain-rotting programs. Most of the parodies are really 
 clever, and everything from the channel logo-flourishes to the Happy Tree Friends-esque cutscenes 
 involving the Rabbids breaking out of jail or whatnot provide plenty of beer-belly laughs. As for 
 Rayman, if the once iconic mascot had any sort of important presence in these games in the past, 
 it's long since been reduced to making a barely noticeable cameo here. Maybe he can return to making 
 good adventure games.
  
  If I can say one nice thing about Rayman Raving Rabbids TV Party, it's that it's worlds better 
 than Wii Sports or Wii Play. There's nothing quite as annoying as going to a party and being subjected 
 to yet another remote-throwing Wii Bowling session hosted by someone who's trying too hard to justify 
 their Wii Purchase. And being that the Wii lineup has been flooded with rushed out, low budget 
 cash-in mini-game collections that makes one wonder what happened to the Nintendo Seal of Approval 
 (and I totally predicted that the floodgates would open with these mini-game sets being that the 
 Wii remote sensors are too inaccurate to support a fully grown game) , a halfway decent party game 
 to change up the flow is always welcome.
  
  Which brings us back to TV Party. Up to four players sit in front of their real life television 
 and watch the Rabbids watch their virtual television. Either the winner of the last round of competition 
 or whomever was able to successfully guess the weather (the game has all kinds of unique quirks) 
 chooses the next channel and thus the next game to play. Along the way, Flash cutscenes will depict 
 the Rabbids in their assorted TV spoofs (including the occasional mid-game commercial sequence!) 
 and, ideally, you and your friends will be taking shots as the action progresses.
  
  Here's a bullet point listing of some of the mini-games one can expect to get inebriated to.
 
   A rail gun shooter where players must prevent the set of a zombie movie from being flooded by 
 Rabbids in chicken suits.
   A snowboarding game where a Rabbid rides down the hill on the backside of a yak. The spirit of 
 Ren and Stimpy lives on.
   A tractor hillbilly racing game with tighter controls than Mario Kart Wii.
   A fashion challenge 
 where you must dress your Rabbid in clothes based on certain unspecific criteria. For example, 
 the game may ask that your Rabbid be "sexy" and "cheap" without being "hairy".
   A bizarre game where each Rabbid is in a bouncy ball and must collect as many points as possible 
 within a scrolling stage
   The asteroid field sequence from Star Wars, where you can destroy asteroids by drawing the Tetris 
 shape that appears on them.
   A version of Rock Band with only two notes, one for each remote to waggle, and with much more 
 inappropriate songs like Born to Be Wild to jam too. The syncing between notes and the song being 
 played may actually be better here than in the past two Guitar Hero games.
   A dancing game where you recreate the motions of a dancer with a Wiimote. Don't be like us and 
 all be sitting on the same sofa while playing this game.
  
  Perhaps you're starting to see a recurring theme here in that you will be made to look a fool playing 
 this. If you value dignity, you shouldn't be playing Raving Rabbids TV Party, or the Wii in general. 
 This is definitely the ideal game to throw in once the liquor starts flowing likeerrrwine? At 
 the end of the game, a Wheel of Fortune spoof appears and a random event will be thrown out, like 
 a player will be made to change their name or clean their room. Such an end-game event is risky 
 to throw in, as the odds are that said player will probably pass out if they're asked to clean 
 their room.
  
  Fortunately for us and unfortunately for the game, by the time we were politely asked to clean 
 our mess, we were starting to get sick of the whole experience. There's about 10 or 15 actual different 
 mini-games and you'll see almost everything the game has to offer in two hour-long sessions. By 
 the time we approached our third play attempt, we were getting restless and moved on to dessert 
 and more booze.
  
  It also bears mention that the tractor and snowboarding games aren't played simultaneously by all 
 players but one at a time, with the other three players occasionally being prompted to throw snowballs 
 or dirt at the current player's screen. Certainly it's amusing the first time around, but it's 
 still quite the flow breaker to have to sit by and not play. And while each race sessions is about 
 one or two minutes long, that can feel like an eternity to those subjected to this game's pro-attention 
 deficit disorder mentality.
  
  I'll still stand that Mario Party 8 (provided you're not sick of the whole board game concept) 
 and Warioware (provided you're not sick ofthat!) make for the ideal Wii party games of choice. 
 TV Party, on the other hand, definitely makes for a better drinking game than most of the Wii's 
 lineup, but it lacks longevity. Whether or not you think it's worth your money will depend on whether 
 or not you think a couple hours worth of wild entertainment is worth $50. That said, if for some 
 reason, you're still not sick of Wii Sports after two years, here you go.
  
  Pros : Because we're still in that year-long time frame between when Nintendo releases a new adaptor 
 and thus forces as many developers as possible to shoehorn in uses for it before giving up and 
 moving on to the next device they can profit of off, this game supports the Wii Fit Balance Board.
 
  
  Cons : There's that whole calibration process that you have to go through before you can use it.
 
  
  3 stars
  
  Why does this seem to be the most interesting Wii game of the holiday season? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  What has Ubisoft done to Rayman? In the space of three years he's gone from being a platform hero 
 to a grumpy old man. Of course he has good reason to be annoyed. The fact that he's got no limbs 
 and a rubbish haircut must be a constant niggle but it's the rise to fame of the Rabbids that must 
 be a real kick in the teeth.
  
  Honestly, they might as well drop Rayman from the title of the game for everyone now knows that 
 the Rabbids are the stars of the show here.
  They deserve to be stars, too. With their brilliant "Bwaaaah" catchphrase and amusing spoofs of 
 film and TV shows, they are some of the funniest videogame characters around and are truly deserving 
 of their own game. We'd much rather spend time with these little chaps than Rayman and his mates 
 even if, essentially, it means playing a load of mini-games.
  
  
  Name Of The Game
  This time the Rabbids have invaded Rayman's TV and it all begins brilliantly when we see the Rabbids 
 standing inside the TV, messing with the brightness and volume settings while occasionally letting 
 off a fart. All very childish but quite amusing for anyone who appreciates toilet humour. Then 
 you have to create your own TV schedule by playing mini-games. Each game will fill one of seven 
 slots on a schedule and you have to complete each one to unlock the next slot before moving onto 
 the next day. In between, Rayman will turn up and mope around like an angry pensioner who's annoyed 
 that Gardener's World has been cancelled in favour of the football.
  
  It's all presented beautifully and the way some of the games parody popular TV shows and films 
 is quite funny. So you've got Prison Fake, a game where you have to pump the Remote to make your 
 Rabbid speed through tunnels before other bunnies. Then there's Pimp My Rabbid, a game where you 
 have to accessorise your Rabbid according to vague instructions such as making your Rabbid hairy 
 and sexy. Fail and you'll be egged. 
  
  Yet underneath all this flash TV-style presentation lies another Rabbids mini-game compilation, 
 only this time many of the games are playable with the Balance Board. So you'll be standing on 
 the Board and shifting your weight to direct flames in Rabzilla, dancing along to Acceptable In 
 The '80s and sitting on it to race through the snow. Most of the games are superior to those in 
 Wii Fit but the fact that you can play them with just the Remote and Nunchuk makes it all feel 
 a bit gimmicky.
  
  
  Party Poopers
  Most of the mini-games are good but really, unless you've got a bunch of mates to play this with, 
 you won't really enjoy Rayman Raving Rabbids TV Party as it is easy to blast through the mini-games 
 and fill your TV schedule. Also, as you work through the schedules in solo mode you'll realise 
 that many of the games are repeated and some are just variations on games we played in Raving Rabbids 
 2. However, with friends it can be enjoyable, as you shake your Remotes furiously to be the last 
 man standing in Rabbid Wrestling and see who can fry and bat the most steaks into a Moose's mouth.
 
  
  Yet while it's undeniably very funny at times, inventive and the best Rayman Raving Rabbids game 
 yet, it is difficult to see how you will persuade anyone over the age of 12 to jump on board. TV 
 Party is a fun game that younger gamers will enjoy goofing around on with their friends and family. 
 However, because most of the games don't require a great deal of skill, it's hard to see the seasoned 
 gamer parting with 35 for what is, essentially, just another mini-game compilation that will struggle 
 to hold your attention once you've filled the schedule.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steph10892
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 5, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Okay so I don't think I'm exactly qualified to say its predecessors because I didn't play the second 
 game but this game got all the bad aspects of the first game and made them worse. In this game 
 you basically play mini games to earn time slots on the tv such as a show from 9 am to 11 am etc. 
 Many games are meant to be used with the wii fit such as the miss fit and skiing game, without 
 the wii fit when playing these games you feel a bit left out and inadequate. 
  Playing this game with a multitude of people softens the blow of this game drastically but going 
 one on one with the rabbids leaves you feeling kind of bored. The games start to become redundant 
 and after a while you have little variety. I say rent it first or borrow it from someone see if 
 your opinion is different from mine but I definitely don't think it's worth 50 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masta_Jedi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  To be honest i enjoy the Raving Rabbids series. Sure the way they are connected to the famous series 
 Rayman is kind of weird, but that doesn't make them any less fun. It's just a great party game, 
 and if you enjoyed the two previous ones you will appreciate this one as well.
  Gamespot is kind of right when saying its the same basic thing as the last games, but that's what 
 fans of this series wanted. I expected them to just add some new minigames, i like the gameplay 
 the way it is. Well, they did change a bit with the balance board but you don't HAVE to own a balance 
 board in order to play the game.
  About the minigames, they are what you would expect, extremely funny as usual, some new balance 
 board games, some where you draw shapes (kind of annoying.. you have to draw perfect lines here, 
 which is kind of hard) , and remote waggling ones. One funny thing is they didn't seem to focus 
 on shooter minigames as much as the previous games. They seemed to focus a lot more on the balance 
 board use and musical games.
  These musical games are great fun! they kept the idea from the second game, of playing a different 
 instrument through a song by shaking the wii remote and numchuck according to the music, and added 
 a new dancing game. In this fun little game you move the wii remote and numchuck according to the 
 music (doing dance moves) and press down, or stand on one foot sometimes, on the balance board.
 
  As usual with these games the multiplayer is the best feature, playing by yourself can be kind 
 of boring. The bad thing about multiplayer here is that not all games that use the balance board 
 (and there are plenty of those) allow you to take turns in using it and make you play with multiple 
 wii remotes at the same time. But this is not all bad, because you can just not connect a second 
 wii remote and take turns. This works especially well for the dancing minigame.
  The comedy in this game is perfect yet again.. those rabbids are crazy and having them make fun 
 of all kinds of TV shows was a great idea. If you liked the previous games of the series, and own 
 a balance board i really recommend this game. If you don't have a balance board it's not as fun, 
 but still good for parties. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luigipsp
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  I think that this is the best game in the series and i love how you can use the wii balance board 
 and play with your a**. I think all the mini games are really fun and some are easy and some are 
 hard. My favorite mini game I have to say would be misfit because it is really fun to see all the 
 people playing it do the motions. I also think that this game is 20 times better than Rayman Raving 
 Rabbids 2 because it has better mini games and the story is longer. I also think the shooting games 
 are better, but i do miss the power ups and being able to play as rayman and grabbing rabbids. 
 The best thing i like about this game is the multiplayer games which makes this game greeeeat for 
 parties. i love the new costumes for the rabbids and pimp my rabbid . Overall, I give this game 
 a solid 10 because i just love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloudkirby
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  More psycotic sillyness, Wii motion, and fart jokes. This 2nd party party game never gets old.
 
  
  Today, Cloudkirby staves off insanity to review Rayman Raving Rabbids, TV party.
  
  Story:
  Once again Rayman is caught in conflict with the deranged, psycotic, and positively insane 
 bunnie invaders, the Rabbids. While chasing Rayman down (which i will not describe in detail, see 
 it for yourself) They get transported inside his TV. Once inside, they take it upon themselves 
 to drive Rayman completely insane (In-law style) .
  
  What's odd about this storyline is that Rayman is thrown into the antagonist position where it's 
 your job to help the rabbids, not stop them. Plus, the rabbids can look so innocent at times, you 
 don't know who to side with.
  
  Gameplay:
  Once again the game is broken down into small little bits of minigames parodying many different 
 TV styles such as movies, the lotto, Speed, and even jackass. 
  
  Lets get to the point, the games are hellofa lot more fun this time around, especially the musical 
 sections. Both the band from two and a revamped version of the dancing from one make an appearance, 
 using cool songs such as ABC, jungle boogie, another one bites the dust, and even the Austin Powers 
 theme. each other game is unique in a way all its own, including races and the classic bunnie shootouts, 
 except that I now have the wii zapper and wii wheel which make all of these games better.
  
  Plus (in what I think is a slap to Wario Ware) each game can be invaded with an advertisment 
 mid-game. Each advert plays a microgame. Win and you can get an advantage over your opponents.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Usually, I'm not a stickler for graphics, but the way the bunnies are animated in 2D deserves a 
 say in the graphics area, other than that it is standard wii graphics, not great, but good
  
  The Bad:
  Alright, alright, I don't take reviews lightly. 
  As usual, the wii controles 
 could use some fine tuning.
  If you have not played a rabbids game before, do not start with this one. start with one or two.
 
  I do not have the wii balance board so that will not affect this review.
  It's all been done before control wize, but complaining about that is like complaining about a 
 cheeseburger because it has cheese on it.
  
  So Cloudkirby, you herculean hunk of puffball, is this a good game?:
  Definetly, if you like 
 mario party, but want a little more substance, than RRRTP is the game for you. With enough jokes, 
 laughs, and psycoticness to keep the most insta-gratification player glued to his seat. And to 
 get the full experience leave the controller alone at the title screen.
  
  Hey its better then de Blob.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
