-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Red Steel
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/redsteel/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting take on first-person shooter controls.
 Nice explosions and destructible environments.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Clunky sword-fighting sequences slapped into the middle of all the shooting.
 Inane story chock-full of painful dialogue and voice acting.
 Numerous noticeable bugs and glitches.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 17, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.6, 61 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 4,039 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Paris
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date: Nov 19, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Red Steel introduces a promising control scheme for shooting thugs and for slashing them with samurai 
 swords, but wraps it in a buggy, thoroughly unimpressive game. 

  Red Steel is like a typical PG-13-rated, straight-to-DVD action movie: It can be fun for a while, 
 but it's probably going to leave a bad taste in your mouth. The analogy runs deeper than that. 
 In the game, which is rife with bad dialogue and generic shoot-outs, you're an American bodyguard 
 who must learn the way of the samurai so that he can defeat the Japanese gangsters who've kidnapped 
 his girlfriend. Of course, you'll be spending much more time gunning down yakuza thugs than engaging 
 in any swordplay, and unfortunately, neither aspect of the game is particularly good. Nor is the 
 game's presentation, which looks dated and downright ugly in spots. Red Steel basically proves 
 that the Wii Remote, in spite of its unconventional design, can do at least an adequate job of 
 letting you control a first-person action game. And to some extent, the controls do feel novel, 
 enough to help make a mediocre shooter seem at least somewhat special.  

          Red Steel's theme and unusual controls might be compelling, but the action and presentation 
 stumble and fall flat.     

  The story is shallow and sometimes goes as far as to get in the way of the action, such as when 
 you're stuck replaying a tough action sequence with a tedious, unskippable cutscene in it. You 
 play as a guy named Scott, though he doesn't speak and is given no personality since you view the 
 game entirely from a first-person viewpoint. He's about to meet the father of his pretty Japanese 
 fiance when all hell breaks loose and a bunch of dudes start shooting up the place. It turns out 
 that Dad's a high-ranking yakuza boss and he's got enemies. Anyway, the girl is captured, so you 
 go after her. Along the way, you pick up a sword. Eventually you find yourself in Japan, getting 
 in good with a rival family and doing jobs for its lieutenants so that they help you out. You keep 
 on shooting lots of goons with guns, sometimes stopping for a sword fight.  

  There's no reason to care much about Scott, his girl, his yakuza friends, or the bad guys. Some 
 of the dialogue is just rotten, while some of it is unintentionally funny. Many of the characters 
 you'll meet speak with thick Japanese accents, but apart from that, Red Steel doesn't come across 
 as authentic in any way. There's nothing exotic about running and gunning through factories and 
 high-rises. There's one crazy level in a deranged amusement park, which, while not terribly original 
 in itself, is probably the one noteworthy departure from the predictable, linear environments you'll 
 be trudging through. In between missions, you'll sometimes get graphic-novel-style cutscenes, reminiscent 
 of Max Payne or  Sin City , except they look like storyboards rather than completed images. The 
 entire game carries the half-baked look and feel of these cutscenes.  

  At best, Red Steel's controls are novel, and they have the potential to be a good fit for a better 
 game. You use the Wii Remote to aim the gun you have equipped, though you might be put off by how 
 your own wrist movements are awkwardly emulated by the onscreen hand-holding-a-gun. Pressing and 
 holding the A button brings your weapon up to eye level, slowing your turning speed so you can 
 more easily draw a bead on a bad guy. There's a rather generous auto-aim window to help you shoot 
 people down. One of the stranger aspects of the shooting is how you can zoom in for a closer look 
 at your foes by moving the Wii Remote toward the screen. When using a sniper rifle, this doesn't 
 seem like an intuitive way of adjusting the scope to a higher magnification, but it works.  

  Meanwhile, you'll be holding the Nunchuk attachment in your off hand, and a quick swing of it 
 makes you reload your gun, open doors, and so on. You can even tip over some tables to make cover, 
 though this isn't necessary. Of course, the Nunchuk's analog stick is used to make you run in different 
 directions, while the remote controls your turning as well as your aiming. As you shoot, the sounds 
 of your weapon reloading and a few other effects come crunching through the Wii Remote's tinny 
 little speaker, which can be distracting, though you can turn the volume down if you want. You 
 can carry only two guns at a time, but during the course of the game you'll get to wield a nice-enough, 
 predictable variety of pistols, automatics, and shotguns. Overall, the shooting controls definitely 
 take getting used to and don't wind up feeling particularly immersive, let alone superior to the 
 conventional first-person shooter controls found on other consoles or the PC. But at least they're 
 different and, while this admittedly is not much of a compliment, functional.  

          Controlling the action takes some getting used to, but soon enough you'll be blasting lowlifes 
 like nobody's business.     

  You'll be shooting lots of near-brain-dead thugs throughout the game, who sometimes use cover pretty 
 well but at other times will run right past you for no reason. They can be reasonably fun to shoot 
 sometimes, especially since the game does a pretty good job of having destructible environments 
 that get all torn up by errant gunfire. At other times, though, you'll be getting sniped by foes 
 you can barely even see, which can be maddening. However, ducking behind cover to avoid taking 
 any more damage for a couple of seconds causes all of your health to quickly regenerate, which, 
 along with the lackluster artificial intelligence, makes most shoot-outs a breeze. There's one 
 other twist to the gunplay -- your focus mode, which is an ability you gain that lets you stop time 
 altogether so you can carefully line up some cheap shots. Using this ability, you can shoot the 
 guns right out of the bad guys' hands, then force them to surrender by waving the Wii Remote around. 
 Later on in the game, this becomes the easiest way to defeat groups of enemies quickly. It's nonsensical 
 but it at least affords a change of pace from the rinse-and-repeat nature of most of the shooting. 
     

  The controls for swordplay are different because the Nunchuk essentially becomes your shield; you'll 
 usually fight with both a katana and a parrying blade of some sort, so the Wii Remote controls 
 your sword swings, while a flick of the Nunchuk may be used to deflect some enemy attacks. The 
 sword-fighting sequences in the game feature a few good-looking animations and can be quite challenging, 
 since later foes will repel almost any move you make. But they're deeply disappointing for the 
 most part, beginning with the fact that not an ounce of blood ever gets spilled, in spite of the 
 misleading title of the game (though in compliance with the T for Teen rating) .  

          The sword-fighting sequences add some variety between all the shooting, but neither side 
 of the action feels all that satisfying.     

  The problem is that the swordplay feels more like Neanderthals clubbing each other than like a 
 fencing match between highly skilled, agile swordsmen. Your attacks come out quite slowly, and 
 while you can swing in a few different directions depending on how you move the Wii Remote, the 
 number of moves at your disposal is limited -- even after you unlock a few special moves and combos. 
 It's particularly frustrating that stabbing attacks seem to be impossible, even though your enemies 
 will use them against you and even though the Wii Remote is clearly capable of registering a linear, 
 forward motion (as with the sniper scope zoom) . The sword fights in Red Steel also take place in 
 confined areas, so if you dodge out of the way too many times, suddenly both you and your opponent 
 will calmly walk back to the center of the arena, which disrupts the flow of the fight.  

  Yet what's most bewildering about Red Steel's sword fights is that they're scripted such that shooting 
 is impossible during these sequences, and vice versa. Here's how they come up: After shooting through 
 maybe a dozen punks in a couple of rooms, you'll wander into a room where there's a guy with a 
 sword. As you approach, you draw your sword automatically, and the fight ensues, conveniently uninterrupted 
 by other gun-carrying enemies. Even when you're about to die, it's simply not possible to draw 
 a gun during a sword fight. Haven't any of these people seen  Raiders of the Lost Ark ? At any 
 rate, it's just an annoying gameplay contrivance, nothing more. Once you defeat an opponent in 
 a sword duel, you're given the option to finish him off or spare his life. The latter choice earns 
 you a sum of "respects," which presumably are tied to how many new moves you're able to learn, 
 though neither the manual nor the game explains this clearly.  

  Red Steel starts off easy but gets substantially tougher by the end, with a few frustrating parts 
 along the way. At least it's a good-sized campaign, weighing in at more than 10 hours. There's 
 not a lot to do except move from one mission to the next, but for what it's worth, the latter half 
 of game opens up so that you can train to get a few new moves and a few new guns in between levels. 
 However, there's next to no replay value overall, partly because Red Steel doesn't even provide 
 a choice of difficulty settings, cooperative gameplay, or anything like that. There's a basic split-screen 
 competitive multiplayer mode for up to four players, but it's nothing to get excited about. The 
 action feels flat and is limited to gunplay, not sword duels. It's worth noting that the one nonstandard 
 multiplayer mode, though basically busted, is really weird. In it, you keep getting phone calls 
 through your Wii Remote, telling you to go after particular targets or giving other instructions. 
 Completing these assignments gets you more points. It's potentially a neat idea, but having your 
 Wii Remote constantly vibrating with phone calls as you fight isn't much fun. And the idea that 
 your telephoned instructions are meant to be a secret is absurd, because the friends you're playing 
 with should be able to hear your Wii Remote as well as you can.  

  If you're hoping that Red Steel's presentation quality helps make up for its middling gameplay, 
 you should stop. Red Steel might have looked pretty good for the time, had it been released a few 
 years ago. But between all the bland, blurry textures, the sluggish frame rate, and the plain-looking 
 weapons and characters, it's decidedly below par by today's standards. There are a few decent touches 
 here and there, such as some preposterously overdone explosion effects (you've never seen a forklift 
 blow up like this) . Some of the rustic Japanese environments near the end of the game also look 
 better than the urban stuff you'll be seeing most of the way. But Red Steel's visuals detract from 
 the experience more than they add to it. This is partly because the game is rife with bugs and 
 glitches, most of which are purely cosmetic at least. You'll sometimes see enemies frozen in place 
 or floating in the air and other things like that. It's also really distracting that you can shoot 
 straight through non-enemy characters. Or if you see an opponent getting ready for a sword fight 
 off in the distance and apply that  Raiders of the Lost Ark  logic, he'll be magically invulnerable 
 to your shots as well. Things like this just about ruin your suspension of disbelief while playing, 
 but on the plus side, they can be unintentionally funny. The game supports widescreen progressive-scan 
 displays, though the visuals don't look much better this way than on a standard TV set.  

          Don't expect multiplayer Red Steel to make up for the shortcomings of the story mode.  
    

  The game's audio is its best trait, relatively speaking. Some of the guns sound good, as do the 
 clashes and clangs of the swords. There are some good music tracks as well, including some J-pop, 
 some rock, and plenty of suspenseful-sounding stuff, and the soundtrack dynamically adjusts to 
 when the shooting starts and stops. It has some stinkers in it, though, and the voice acting in 
 Red Steel is often pretty bad -- especially some of the inane, censor-approved lines you'll hear 
 from your enemies, who call you things like "moron" and "murderer" as they fight for their lives. 
 Thankfully, the Japanese-speaking enemies you fight get away with some swearing in their native 
 tongue.  

  Red Steel isn't completely devoid of merit, but it's a half-baked, buggy game that feels rushed 
 and poorly executed. There's a good concept in here somewhere, as a swords-and-guns shooter pitting 
 you against yakuza villains certainly seems like it could be very exciting. However, the experience 
 itself hardly fulfills any of the promises behind it. So if you're looking for an exciting new 
 way to simulate gunning or cutting lots of dudes down using the Wii Remote, you'd best keep looking. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (494 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: blankshore
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2009 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel isn't going to be in the history books. It's not going to be remembered as being the 
 game that changed the way you think about First Person Shooters. In fact I'd reckon that in 8 years 
 time you won't even remember its name. This is a real shame because while it may not exactly revolutionary, 
 it's one hell of a game. The great controls prove to be more immersive and fun than most other 
 shooters on the market, and though it may not be perfect, this is the game that really show the 
 potential for what CAN be done on the Wii. It's one of the best games on the system, and with it's 
 bargain price you'd be wronging yourself to not check it out.
  
  Gameplay -- The game's strongest and weakest point. The pointer controls aren't quite as smooth as 
 the revolutionary Metroid Prime 3, but they still show why the Wii SHOULD be the number 1 console 
 for fist person shooters. Aiming is done with the pointer, while basic movements are handled by 
 the nunchuck's control stick. Also assigned to the nunchuck are contextual actions such as opening 
 doors or flipping over tables or throwing grenades. One of the more interesting things about this 
 game is that it actually tracks how your holding the Wii remote, and translates that to how you're 
 holding your gun. Meaning that if you want to hold your gun gangsta style, you totally can. It's 
 a smart move that really puts you into the game. Another strong point is the swordplay. You'll 
 occasionally get into one-on-one sword fights and they are always fun and intense. I actually found 
 myself jumping off the couch when these came up because I was getting so into the action.
  
  The game's downfall ultimately comes from the "dead zone", a phrase which here means "how close 
 you have get put the pointer to the edge of the screen before your character starts to turn". (sorry 
 for the Lemony Snicket-ism) . Your guy turns way slower than he should, which really detracts from 
 the game's high speed action. It's something you get used to, and being the Wii's first ground-up 
 FPS it's understandable that there are going to be some mistakes like this, but its unfortunate 
 nontheless. The hit-detection is also not great. I'm not saying that the game will make you miss 
 your target for no reason, just that if you shoot your opponent in the chest, you get the same 
 reaction you would if you hit him in the foot. Head shots are still an instant-kill, though.
  
  Graphics -- It's quite a pretty Wii game, actually. Not quite as impressive as say, Metroid Prime 
 3 or Mario Galaxy or the Conduit, but it's not bad looking. It does have its fair share of ugly 
 textures, but over-all it's pleasing to look at. The character models in particular are very well 
 done. There is a serious drop in graphical quality during split screen multiplayer, though. Seriously. 
 The game goes from looking great to looking like complete ass. 
  
  Multiplayer -- The multiplayer is a serious high point. Although the afore-mentioned graphical quality 
 drop is unfortunate, the multiplayer is wonderfully addicting. Me and my buddies have stayed up 
 until the wee (or should I say wii?) hours of the night playing this. There are tons of hillarious 
 characters to choose from, a great variety of multiplayer maps, and several modes to keep you occupied. 
 If you're looking for a Wii shooter with some killer split-screen this is it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: boostud
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 5:59 am PT
Review:  I was able to get a copy of Red Steel for next to free last week, so of course I jumped on it. 
 It was one of my most anticipated titles when the Wii was showcased before its release. By the 
 time I actually got my hands on a Wii the reviews had came and gone, leaving nothing but BAD comments 
 about Red Steel. Thats when I decided its going to stay out of my library until I can scoop it 
 out of a bargain bin.
  
  As of today I feel really stupid not buying this game earlier. I have put a solid 2-3 hours into 
 the game so far I have no NO idea what the complaints are about. The controls are very simple and 
 responsive. I think the quality of the control is right up there with Metroid Prime 3. There isn't 
 2 dozen button combinations like in CoD: WaW. To be honest, the controls all around rival CoD's. 
 Shake the nunchuck to reload and open doors, hold A to lock on target, and B to fire. Sword fighting 
 is exactly like you think it would be. move the Wiimote accordingly. What else do you need?!?
 
  
  Gameplay was a pleasent surprise too. It was pretty fresh all around, and the sword fighting element 
 is probably my favorite part. It's no Halo as far as shooters go, but it definately mixes it up 
 just due to the controls. The acting is actually pretty well played, and overall it has a fun story 
 line backing.
  
  Graphics are another pleasent surprise. This game has better graphics than most Wii games to date. 
 It has plenty of low res textures on the walls, but the character models/ filters / effects make 
 up for all of this. It runs very smooth in most parts of the game. I can only recall some hesitation 
 when it was clearly loading. Of anything I'd say the explosions and lighting effects were hands 
 down the most impressive. It was actually a graphical treat in terms of what we currently see on 
 the Wii.
  
  Overall I'd recommend this game to every Wii owner. Don't follow the reviews claiming 'crap controls' 
 and whatnot. Play it yourself and then come talk. As the Wii isn't my console of choice for shooters 
 I'm very poor at control. Even I can play this game with ease. According to reviews CoD: WaW had 
 GREAT controls. and I sucked pretty bad at that no matter how many hours I put into it. Anyway, 
 I'll wrap up my rant here and just say give this game a shot, take the reviews with a LARGE grain 
 of salt.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LtPants
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 4:19 pm PT
Review:  i have played this game many times and am nowhere close to beating it, but i have enough experience 
 to right a review.
  
  i thought of it as almost a fail.
  
  when seeing the hand holding the gun on-screen, it looks kinda awkward the way he twists his wrist 
 around. but the cool part is you can hold your gun like a gangster. the sword fighting is the biggest 
 piece of crap ever. it is non-responsive to special moves and the enemies are all the same, although 
 they do get tougher. the storyline is kinda cheesy. like, oh no my GF is gone so im gonna be racist 
 and shoot japanese guys in the face. and there is a lack of graphic quality. because as far as 
 i know, when being shot, stabbed, or slashed, most of the time there is blood. the offline multiplayer 
 is ok, but an online multiplayer with modes like CTF or some kinda sword fighting thing would be 
 kinda cool but, alas they did no such thing. its an ok game for the not-so hardcore gamers but 
 if your looking for lots of decapitations and gore-fests, run the other way just as fast as you 
 came.
  
  thank you for reading and please post comments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frostmore33
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 10:13 pm PT
Review:  When Red Steel was announced for the wii. I thought that the console may get some interesting action 
 games. Instead we have been getting crap like Far Cry Vengence and Prince Of Persia Rival Swords. 
 Red Steel is no different. The enemies are way to easy. Story is highly confusing and the controls 
 are unresponsive.
  
  There are some good sides though. Sword fights are fun. Missions are a good size and every now 
 and then they will do something which suprises you. Like the ninja who has a posin sword which 
 will kill you on impact.
  
  I actually started to enjoy myself after a while just because the gameplay became weird. The story 
 is unintentially funny and in one mission you are attacked by dinasours and japenese power rangers.
 
  
  The words Guilty Pleasure come to mind. It reminds me of those cheesy japenese movies which end 
 up turning out good.
  
  My point is if you want a weekend of cheap laughs this is the game for you. If you are one of those 
 players who has just finished playing the original Far Cry then you will probabley end up feeding 
 this to your dogs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superfatman23
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 20, 2009 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Redsteel looks good from executing deadly sword combos to even slowing down time but this shooter 
 may be the first shooter on the wii but it is no legend. First is first like all shooters people 
 love having alot deadly weapons from rocket launches to exotic vehicles and even a sniper rifle 
 but redsteel has how many weapons like 12 ! this game needs alot more weapons like all shooters 
 like call of duty and unreal tournament redsteel does not many weapons second what type of company 
 makes the game so hard that you die within seconds i swear my life bar in redsteel i take about 
 4 to 3 hits boom boom boom boom im dead like all shooters like the ones i mentioned redsteel also 
 needs a better and longer health bar. the difficulty was way to hard this one level i had fight 
 my way through enemys with a freaken pistol while the others are with machine gun and grenades 
 im what the hell why cant i start off like that? this game is worth a rent maybe not a buy
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 3:31 pm PT
Review:  In this game you are this one guy that is in Japan to do wet work for a few people. The game takes 
 place in Japan and the U. S. The game is really cluncky. The game has terrible controls and terrible 
 graphics. There are alot of numerous glitches and bugs in the game. There are some interesting 
 first person shooter combat in the game. The game is all about doing wet work for this one group 
 out in Japan. You got with the group because you are going out with the leaders daughter. The game 
 is just really terrible and is a total letdown. You go to the most terrible places ever. Like you 
 go to Sacremento and betray your friends and you kill them. So the game is really stupid and deosn't 
 make any sense. But there are alot of explosives near by so game has alot of explosives in it.
 
  
  The good of the game is that the first person shooter combat is really good and intersting. There 
 are alot of explosives in the game.
  
  The bad of the game is that clunky sword fighting. Terrible controls. Terrible graphics. Terrible 
 story. Alot of bugs and glitches.
  
  Overall this game is really boring and a total letdown. I rate this game 4.5 outta 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam3231
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel being one of the very first fps games for the wii, failed with flying colors. There is 
 not one aspect of this game I can say was done with perfection, but at the same time it does have 
 a few redeeming features. 
  
  First, lets talk about the controls. They're simple but at the same time manageable. Shaking the 
 nunchuck works like the "action" button in this game, so your going to find yourself shaking it 
 a TON. Just think every single time you want to open a door, reload, or pick up a weapon, you're 
 going to have to shake the nunchuck. It is quite annoying, and quite frankly there is no way to 
 change your controls in this game. The aiming your crosshair is done with the wii mote, which isn't 
 bad although it can be a bit awkward at times, especially on multiplayer where the screen is 1/4 
 the normal size.
  
  Although the game does not support 4:3 resolution, the graphics are actually okay compared to many 
 other wii releases. The levels are quite eye appealing and exhibit some different fog and glossy 
 effects that enhance the objects and textures in the level. I felt the designers did a really nice 
 job in level design for the most part, as you will encounter a variety of colorful environments 
 throughout the game. Sometimes there is a slightly noticeable frame drop but not much of a problem.
 
  
  The music/sounds in the game are decent, but the voice acting ranges from mediocre to pathetic. 
 It's quite laughable to say the least. I don't really believe voice acting detracts much from a 
 game, but if you're expecting good voice acting turn else where.
  
  But as an unfortunate soul begins the single player campaign, they will soon be wishing they could 
 only use a time machine to reverse time and never buy (or rent) this game. There's not really much 
 to say about it, other than it's utterly boring. It does nothing new, different, or innovative 
 than other fps games other than the fact that you occasionally go into sword battles - - which 
 may I add is even LESS exciting then the very generic gun fights. The sword fights consist of nothing 
 more than swinging around your wii mote, and watching the most pathetic cutting animations flash 
 across your screen. I swear you have to see it to believe it, just go youtube it right now, It's 
 like playing sega genesis or some crappy arcade game in the bowling alley. To top it all off they 
 slapped on cutscenes that look like slideshows, and a story line that could have written on the 
 back of a 6 year old's coloring book. 
  
  The multiplayer on the other hand is actually not bad, but it's a little limited. With only 4 different 
 maps, and 3 modes it's offers a nice quick fix for friends but nothing you'll be staying up all 
 night and playing. One of the multiplayer modes actually requires you to listen to your wii mote, 
 which I found interesting. Although there isn't a wide variety of weapons, they do seem to fit 
 the multiplayer mode well and you're probably going to have more fun fighting your friends than 
 beating up on the brain dead A. I.
  
  On a finishing note, this game is truly not the sword swinging, quick shooting, intense multiplayer 
 it was projected to be. This could have had some potential to be a somewhat decent game had they 
 implemented a better sword system, and more multiplayer content, but ultimately falls short only 
 to be remembered as one of the most overhyped games to ever hit the nintendo wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: locopr13
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 2, 2009 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Graphics; the graphics of this game are not so bad but it have a lot of gliches in the bad guys, 
 good guys and in almost some part is i dont like the graphics.
  
  Gameplay; the gameplay of this game is sort of messy because the controls are horrible and it does 
 not have good way of shooting i love the style of the sword but the shooting isnt good.
  
  Tilt; this game is crappy i cannot passed this game even onece because of what it is i hate it it 
 make spend:17 dollars this game if i was gonna buy it again i will buy it in 5 dollars not at 17 
 dollars but the first time you play you say is kind of good and stylish but they did not make what 
 they want ubisoft can make a better game that this.
  
  Conclusion: this is a cheap game with horrible graphics and weak controls i can play it but i would 
 buy it only at 5 dollars this is and experience of a bad game but i like the story only the start 
 but then the story begins. I hate this game of a matter of way that i wanna burn this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sportsmen2008
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 12:05 am PT
Review:  This was another game that had a lot of review all over the board. The game sounded like a game 
 I would enjoy but I figured I would wait to get it until the price was right. ($4 and It was a 
 no brainer!)
  
  Honestly this game was a lot of fun. It was not perfect by any means, but it was a very enjoyable 
 game. I did not have any problem with the controls and thought many of them worked very well. So 
 I was really shocked to see so many sub 5 review for this game, but like wise many of the 8.5+ 
 are equally shocking. I also think this is a game that had it fixed some of its flaws, could have 
 been a 10. I would recommend them to try and make a Red Steel 2, and fix some oft he problems. 
 
  
  The overall story and game play is solid, but nothing new. You are looking to save you one true 
 love, and must kill thousands of yakuza to accomplish this. Its a good story and works well with 
 the characters.
  
  The graphics are average. Compared to some of the newer games they really do not stand up. However 
 I am sure at the time this was the sharpest game out. Some of the scenes do not look very good 
 but not many of them fall into this category. The audio is about the same it does a good job but 
 again nothing fantastic. 
  
  I liked the controls, and thought they did a great job working with the wi mote. You can get tired, 
 and I am sure we have all drawn or sword in a gun battle but overall I liked it. I think it could 
 be a little better in the next version. 
  
  Fixing a few flaws in the story, better graphics, better controls, and you have a game that could 
 battle for a top spot!
  
  The slow down mode is very cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinosonicdude
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  this game lacks control, gameplay, and the whole story. my suggestions: 1) don't buy the game. 2) if 
 you do very difficult for you to control even if you have an enormous space anywhere. 3) lacks respect 
 on gameplays in you!!!!!!!!!! please don't play this game as the graphics are also horrible. they 
 look like PS1 graphics which are old fashioned years ago. worst of all minimal violence in gameplays 
 are horrible. i mean it should have blood and more violence than just 'violence', and the cursing 
 language......... waste of minimal responses in gameplays, could have been improved. this game could 
 have been better like a 007 game as they are good games to play for people who like or love shooter 
 games and/or agent games. this game is not for anyone, especially people who loves shooter games. 
 so don't get the game or it will waste your time of your  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermariobro9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  To start off red steel is a GREAT game. You get a good choice of weapons and you even get to fight 
 with swords. The control scheme is also very easy to do. If you want the guy to turn the pistol 
 in his hand just tilt the wii remote to the side. There is a really cool mode it is like you slow 
 down time the guys will not shoot and you can lock onto them and when you get out of focus or freeze 
 you will shoot the guys you locked onto autimatically. The sword fighting very fun the guys moves 
 his sword the way you turn the remote and the battles that you have with the sword are awesome 
 and challenging. You can't forget the story mode. That is the best part. You go after your fiance 
 who has been kidnapped and also you a trying to protect the katana giri a kind of legendary sword 
 that you use throughout the game. It is very long and very fun. The multiplayer is pretty good, but 
 it could have been better. Anyway iI think red steel overall is a very good game and I would recomend 
 you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 1:13 pm PT
Review:  If all the third-party games due to be released on Wii launch day, Red Steel has received by far 
 the most attention. But that doesn't mean everyone's been singing its praises. Many people have 
 complained that the sword-fighting controls in the preview versions they've played were glitchy 
 and unresponsive, and that moving through the levels was hard to get the hang of. Understandably, 
 there were concerns that these issues wouldn't be resolved by the time the game was ready for release. 
 So were we right to have lost sleep over these worries.
  
  Short answer? Nope. The fact is, Red Steel is one of the most enjoyable, action-packed and immersive 
 games available on the Wii, and after a while the controls rarely enter your mind, except when 
 you're amazed at how well they work.
  
  
  In our previews of the game we've gone into quite a lot of detail surrounding the plot - you're 
 an American guy who has to go to Japan to rescue your kidnapped fiance from the Yakuza (the Japanese 
 mafia) after it transpires her dad's a big cheese in the gangster world - but you'll find when 
 you pick up Red Steel you'll be having so much fun blowing bad guys away that the story may slip 
 your mind. And the great control system is just one of the reasons you'll get so absorbed in the 
 game.
  
  Yakuza People Gonna Die? Whereas a lot of first-person shooters only have a handful of enemies 
 in each 
  level and the emphasis is more on navigating the maze-like maps, Red Steel is a pretty linear game 
 - you're never really in 
  any doubt where to head next, and your main focus is gunning down a stream of enemies to get through 
 the level. If that sounds like a chore to you, think again. We soon found ourselves craving more 
 and more enemies to take out, simply because the Wii Remote's aiming system makes the game so much 
 fun.
  
  It's not just an easy system to use, it's an ingenious one. Running over to a desk and flicking 
 the Nunchuk will flip the desk over, allowing you to duck down behind it and shield yourself from 
 any gunshots. Once you've targeted your enemy you can lock on by holding the A button, which brings 
 up a white box around the general area your opponent's standing in. When you hide the box will 
 remain on screen, meaning when you pop out again to fire some shots you'll have a general idea 
 of where you're going to be aiming. 
  
  This is a great system because it doesn't lock straight onto the opponent (making killing him a 
 case of simply leaning out and firing) , but it also means you're not going to be leaping up and 
 spending three or four seconds trying to find out where he was hiding, by which point the super-clever 
 AI will have gunned you down.
  
  
  And it is clever, you know. We're sure you've heard countless developers talk about their action 
 games: the enemies are smart, they've got minds of their own. And yes, we know that ultimately 
 ends up meaning they'll either scurry around aimlessly instead of standing still or lurk behind 
 a wall and pop out at random moments. But in Red Steel you do genuinely feel like you're in a shoot-out 
 with an enemy who's actually thinking. 
  
  Slice Of The Action
  Bad guys here start by cautiously hiding behind columns and walls, then after a while they'll become 
 impatient and fire some bullets. When you run out of ammo they'll charge towards you, looking for 
 the kill. It means that when you finally manage to pick off that pesky Yakuza, you'll feel a real 
 sense of satisfaction in having outsmarted him.
  
  There are a couple of sensitivity options available if you want to change the speed of your Remote 
 pointer, but we felt that the default option was spot-on. It's fast enough to let you quickly adjust 
 your aim from an enemy at the bottom left to another one up on a balcony to the right, yet also 
 accurate enough to let you hold your aim steady and move it a single pixel to the left or right 
 should you need to. Basically, it offers the accuracy of a PC's keyboard-and-mouse control system 
 with the added bonus that you actually feel like you're holding a gun instead of clicking a mouse.
 
  
  Then there's the sword fighting. Despite the hype surrounding these sections of the game, they 
 really don't seem like that big a deal. Most fights are simply a case of flicking with the Nunchuk 
 at the right time to parry a swipe, then countering with the Remote to do your opponent damage. 
 While it's still enjoyable, it feels more like Wii Boxing with swords. That's not to say it's not 
 good fun, it's just not quite as enjoyable or involving as the gunfight sections.
  
  
  Red Steel, Blue Language
  By the way, Red Steel definitely isn't one for younger gamers. Although 
 the game is blood-free it's still extremely violent and, more importantly, there's some pretty 
 harsh language spoken at times, with one of the B-words turning up with surprising regularity and 
 a couple of F-bombs thrown in the mix. 
  
  Also offensive (but in a different way) is the voice-acting, which is cringeworthy at times and 
 not helped by a dodgy script. Some conversations, particularly those between minor enemies, don't 
 seem realistic and sound like they're rehearsing a bad play. But this is only a minor issue when 
 considering the whole experience.
  
  The multiplayer modes are as enjoyable as the single-player main mode, ranging from typical deathmatch 
 gunfights to an interesting mode where your Wii Remote will ring like a telephone and you'll have 
 to hold it up to your ear to hear your mission. It's also one of the few console FPS games we've 
 played where the deathmatch controls are so accurate that (assuming you're good enough) you can 
 stand at one end of a map and manage to hit your opponent at the other end. Oh, and you can choose 
 a character wearing a dinosaur suit. That swayed it for us.
  
  Put simply, if you're into first-person shooters or just crave the sort of multiplayer shooting 
 action that arguably hasn't been on a Nintendo home console since GoldenEye on the N64, then Red 
 Steel should be an essential purchase. Get a few extra Remotes and Nunchuks together and you're 
 in for a great time in the multiplayer modes, while the single-player game - with its fantastic 
 soundtrack and exciting gameplay - is the closest we've come to feeling like we're in a Hong Kong 
 action movie. They don't get much cooler than this.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stAmbrosius
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 4:41 am PT
Review:  There is much to enjoy about Red Steel. The story takes you from L. A. to Tokyo. The levels are 
 very different from one another and each has a lot of fun little details. Though the graphics aren't 
 that great, they do the job. If you are into Japan, you are going to like this game.
  The gameplay consists of shooting and swordfighting. 
  Most of the time you are shooting. The 
 shooting is a lot of fun. The A. I. really isn't that bad and you need to use cover a lot. There 
 are pistols, shotguns and machineguns and also handgrenades. Between checkpoints you'll be in some 
 great shoot-outs with lots of stuff to destroy. You'll be using the Wii-mote and though it still 
 takes some getting used to, it's a lot easier to control then Call of Duty 3 on the Wii.
  Then there are the swordfights. Here's where the game screws up. 
  From time to time you encounter 
 an enemy swordfighter. Scott, the hero, automatically grabs his sword, instead of his guns. I guess 
 that's the way of the samurai. There''s a bit of conversation, which is still fun. Then the fighting 
 begins. You can dodge and parry your opponent's attacks and do some combos and special moves of 
 your own. Unfortunately, these don't work and you'll be sweeping with the wii-mote just hoping 
 your slashes will get through. This works at first but in the later levels your opponents will 
 chop you up really fast. Time and again until you realise you are not having any fun and quit playing, 
 like i did.
  So that's why i compare this to a Japanese Bento-Box. Some things are really sweet, while other 
 aspects are like rotten fish.
  I really hope they get the swordfighting right in Red Steel 2, using the motion-plus technology. 
 Also the graphics should be a whole lot better. 
  
  Play this game only if you can get if for free or very little money and are into Japan.
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crookin_Insane
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel is one of the very very few FPS on the Wii. The game has a very average movie like story, 
 where you girlfriend is kidnapped and you go to try and rescue her.
  
  The gameplay is interesting to say the least. The aiming can be awkward sometimes, though you have 
 a lock-on system to help. You probably won't use grenades since they aren't needed nor are they 
 good enough to be needed, which is sadly a good thing since the controls for them are horrible. 
 The multiplayer is not even worth mentioning.
  
  The voice acting is horrible. Most characters are hard to understand. If your looking at a character 
 as they speak you will notice in an instant that there move movements aren't anywhere near what 
 you would expect them to be.
  
  Graphics aren't that great... that is all.
  
  Overall Red Steel is a unique concept, but it is hard for some people to like a game with some 
 many flaws. If you can get over the flaws of the game it is actually really well made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: singe2241
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 27, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  redsteel is a first person shooter which is pretty bad because of the terrible AI and bad storyline 
 and graphics.
  
  in redsteel your fiance gets kidnapped and her dad killed by the yakuza you try to get her back 
 by killing people with guns and sometimes swords
  
  you might be thinking that ooh look a wii game with swords it is going to be great, well it isnt 
 the sword fighting is horrible if you try to hit the opponent by going crazy nothing happens you 
 have to wait for your go (he attacks you block you attack you hit him) . One strange thing about 
 this game was there is no blood i mean come on you are slicing people up and you get is a silver 
 line that shows up on there body for 2 seconds seriously even farcry vengeance had blood when you 
 knifed someone or shoot them. 
  
  Graphics: ok for wii
  
  Storyline: boring and predictable
  
  Controls: average but still pretty fun
  
  Gameplay: ok 
 when in gun shoot out (by the way there is awesome ragdoll) but when you are fighting with swords 
 which is really what the game is about it is horrible.
  
  There is a four player splitscreen which is ok but will get boring after a while.
  
  Overall: a 
 poor game which should have been amazing, you should rent this game to see what it is like you 
 never know you may like it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doombringer175
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Best idea of ubisoft. These guys know good games. Guns, Swords, I only wish I could use a rocket 
 launcher. A little slow at first but the story starts imedialty. Girlfriend Kidnaped (many spoilers 
 later) and that is where I got to. Man, Gamespot gave it over use of dialoge, It is needed. People 
 this is an great game. Glitches, NONE. The wiimote and Nunchuck made the game all the more first 
 person. THe sword fights, finaly someone understands SWORDS RULE. A lot more sivilised than a gun. 
 Guns, equaly great. Wide sellection. anything from the power of the shotgun, the sleek look of 
 a hand gun, the amunition of automatic, and the acuricy of a sniper rifle. Only problem, which 
 one do you use. I found I needed more than two guns at any time. Granade not to helpful. never 
 saw use. Sword play adds new demention. THink first person Ledgend of Zelda. My only one bone to 
 pick with it enimies too strait forward. They just shoot at you, rarely use of a stratigy. Correction 
 two bones, where are the enimes half the time they hide in the shadows too often.
  
  Good:
  gameplay, story, game in general
  
  bad:
  enemy combat skill 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lathan94
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 19, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  I am trying to give the wii a chance. I have tried every shooter for the wii thinking one would 
 be "OK" I bought this game for 15 bucks looking for something to do while by 360 was in for repairs. 
 I sure screwed up wasting money that purchase. First off i would like to say the motion controls 
 are a gimick just like every other wii game i have played so dont think that makes it more immersive. 
 The graphics are absolutley atrocious, this is coming from somebody that has been playing some 
 very good looking shooters latley. The textures are bad on every surface and the gun models are 
 the worst i have seen in modern gaming. To be honest this is a review on the first three levels 
 because the game is so bad i couldnt make it any farther. The shooting action is pathetic theyre 
 are like 5 weapons in the game none of them out of the ordinary. Im taking the game back tomarrow 
 because it was that bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zig_star
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2008 5:16 am PT
Review:  Hi it is Zig Zero here and i'm reviewing Red Steel
  
  Well lets just get to the story first, you play as the American body guard "Scott Monroe" who is 
 getting married to a women from Japan, Her father is a Head of a Yakuza clan. When you are having 
 dinner with her father before you're getting married a rival Yakuza clan crashes the party and 
 starts a huge entanglement on exchanging the girl for the katana giri. So you have to rescue her 
 of course but you realize the katana giri was a sword past down from generation to generation. 
 So its obvious what you have to do, Get the girl and kill the bad guy and keep the sword safe.
 
  
  It's very funny how lots of people disliked this game because i took a liking to this game. It 
 was a new style of FPS gaming, where you now get to use a sword and gun at the same time. 
  
  You see people have different opinions and it took that effect when i read the first user reviews. 
 But this game may have been to show how the Wii-motes and nunchuck's interactivity with the Wii, 
 because this was one of the first games. And the style of combat was pretty good. But after a while 
 you start to think, "Man I wish this game was compatible with the classic controller" Because you 
 want a different experience after finishing it (and the wii has different controllers) . But it 
 doesent mean i didnt like the gameplay i wanted it to be in future fps games which I heard "Far 
 Cry Vengance" has espicially when its made by Ubisoft.
  
  I'm not that type of person who brags about the visuals saying a good game would need good visuals 
 but this game had pretty good visuals for a protoype game for the Wii, (which i liked because now 
 i'm thinking about how good the second one will be) .
  
  The story and dialogue are well done, and what else is there to say, it has the "Yakuza". The cut 
 scenes are in different style to the game play how its all paper cut out but i just want to get 
 to the action so I'm not really judging it.
  
  So my score is 9/10 Bloodshot eyeballs.
  Zig Zero out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwolf1982
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 12, 2008 12:46 am PT
Review:  When I played GoldenEye for the N64, that was a bloody awesome game for it's time. First Impressions 
 of the Wii release Red Steel...
  I loved how the game's control scheme took a strong advantage of the Wii's Remote and Nunchuck's 
 control style. Having bought the game a yesterday and had a chance to actually play around with 
 it...
  Red Steel feels pretty average compared to the likes of the more successful FPS franchises out 
 there, at the same time the story has that whole Japanese Gangland action movie (plot and all) 
 going on. The game's main arena is pretty much the typical shooter, but when you reach a "Boss 
 Fight" you literally break out into the sword fighting, which makes things interesting... Well 
 it certainly makes a good workout though.
  When comes down to the weapons...
  You handguns seem to be very good for picking off hostiles at close to medium range, but any further 
 you're going to need a rifle.
  SMG's (the UZI) seems to be better for unleashing a hail of gunfire, especially when you're laying 
 down supressing fire.
  The Carbines have the rate of fire, yet they are more accurate making them a good choice for medium 
 range.
  Then there's the "Shotties" which are great up close!
  
  In a nutshell...
  
  Red Steel is worth checking out to say the least, but at the same time it's nothing to rave about. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toolzz360
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Compliments:
  -Good level environments including one outstanding level
  -The controls are pretty good
  -Well paced action between shooting and sword fighting
  
  
 Complaints:
  -Subpar graphics
  -Bad voice acting 
  -A lot of little bugs and quirks
  
  
  
  
  
  Red Steel is a pretty good Wii launch title but is nothing more than an average 
 FPS at its core with a few variations along the way. 
  
  Red Steel follows an American who gets mixed up in Yakuza affairs after his Japanese girlfriend 
 is captured and flown to Japan. The girlfriend's father is a high ranking Yakuza official, and 
 the kidnappers want his family's sacred sword the Katana Giri. After a brief stint in America the 
 playable character goes to Japan to protect the Katana and to save his girlfriend. The story is 
 not bad at all, but at points it seems just like another generic FPS.
  
  The big draw for this game is the ability to use the wii remote and nunchuk to shoot and slash 
 your way through many foes. The controls are pretty good, but there still were a few problems with 
 them. You aim with the wii remote on screen, and shoot with the B button. While doing this pressing 
 the A button locks on to targets so you know where they are when they take cover. In order to zoom 
 in you must hold down A and move the wii remote forward. This mechanic is kind of neat but does 
 not work very well. Another problem with it is that using the focus shot (similar to Max Payne slow 
 down time) it is the same control as the zoom function. Therefore, when you want to just zoom the 
 focus shot kicks in automatically, which is an issue. The wii remote and nunchuk are also used 
 for sword fighting and both mimic the actions of swinging a real sword, but the controls are not 
 responsive enough. 
  
  The game spans the length of about 12 hours with each mission lasting anywhere from 20 minutes 
 to an hour and a half. I thought some of the missions were too long at points, and the game does 
 not save your progress unless a mission is complete. The gameplay is the same throughout just shooting 
 your way through a large number of enemies, and then the generic sword fight thrown in here and 
 there. Overall the game was fairly easy, but the sometimes non responsive controls added unnecessary 
 difficulty.
  
  The graphics and audio in the game are pretty bad. Nearly every aspect of these categories from 
 character models to horrible voice acting is under achieving. Throw in a few bugs and glitches 
 and you have a very unpolished game. 
  
  Overall Red Steel was a fun play even through some of its flaws. The controls work well enough 
 to make this a decent FPS shooter on a console designed for that genre. Throw in the fact that 
 you can get the game for 5$ nowadays at gamestop, which makes it worth a purchase.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgreco_1988
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  In all honesty it probably isn't fair for me to review this game as i only spent about an hour 
 on it.. but thats all you need to spend to realize that this game freaking blows. Its barely playable. 
 The only reason that I am writing this today is because i dont want people to waste there time 
 or there money. Luckily, I didnt buy this game, I only borrowed it from a friend. The controls 
 in this game a very bold. This game makes most use of the motion controller then any wii game out 
 there. But they are poorly done. The shootouts are almost impossible. So the single player is completely 
 pointless. The story blows. The multiplayer feels half baked. I think one of the worst parts of 
 this game is how the character on screen tries to mimic your wrist movements... but by doing so 
 he looks completely retarded. This game is good on paper, but in practice it doesnt work.. by now 
 there are many other, better fps games for the wii. This game is a waste of time, money, and shelf 
 space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MR_S_E_F
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 17, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  the handling and controls are simply and pretty easy to learn; the multiplayer is fun except for 
 you cant use swords. However, the story wasnt so great, and can get boring bacause its so repetative (same 
 thing, bad guys come out and shoot you, you open a door and there are more bad guys...) . The aiming 
 can get thrown off during the cut-scenes, but of else the handling is good. The controls are easy 
 enough to learn in 10 mins. The multiplayer is cool bacause you can set the time or score limit, 
 within a very reasonable amount, but there should have been more stages. The lighting in multiplayer 
 was bad though, bacause it was very dark and if you turn up the brightness, it's blurry and you 
 can't really see the other charactrers (enemies) . So you probely wouldn't buy it unless you have 
 people who would play multiplayer with you, or you really like shooters. I'd give it a 3.5 out 
 of 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knightfire35
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel. One of the first shooters on the Wii. It was the first game to show how shooter will 
 turn out on the Wii. Thankfully it did not turn out too bad. The game works well with the Wii controls. 
 The graphics are fair, considering the time it launched, leaving them not much time to polish up 
 the graphics. The game play is solid through out the game. But here is the bad news. The story 
 mode it terrible. It's boring and repetitive. You can finish it very quickly, and it's not very 
 difficult. The sword battle are sometimes bugged. The storyline is very terrible, but it does not 
 really matter, because most of the time, your justing running through one level at a time, shooting 
 everything that moves. The real highlight of the game, is it's multi-player. Me and my friends 
 have played the game countless hours duking it out in Red Steel's multi-player mode, and it never 
 gets boring. We have all found the secrets and tricks to the game, which makes it very close and 
 competitive. If you have friends at your house often, or are looking to rent a game for a party, 
 this is your choice. But if your buying this game for the single-player, i would think twice, with 
 Medal of Honor: Heroes 2 and Metroid Prime 3 on the market. Overall it is a solid shooter on the 
 Wii console, one of the best with multi-player. It was amazing at launch, but now that we look 
 at it, well, it's not the best choice. Still a great game to pick up for those nights with friends. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plasmaeagle14
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2008 2:06 am PT
Review:  Red steel is a fantastic first person shooter where you take the
  role of a courageous body guard. After agreeing to marry your precious
  hirer ,this game unravells 
 into a lethal shooting story as at your
  fiancees fathers empier (he is very rich!) you get a fully lethal 
  ambush which occurs to protecting 
 your new to be wife and her
  precious old father!
  The controlls offer a vast memorable layout as the wii remote is 
  your best friend (GUN) and 
 the nunchuck is all sorts of little things 
  such as reloading in addition to oppening doors Ect;
  But just when you think this action packed 
 game has to offer shooting
  smart ubisoft included a ferocious SWORD. The sword is used in one
  against one figths which brings 
 a real shine to the game! , Wait the fun 
  does not end there, when over whelming you enemy (Making them drop
  to the floor) you have a fun 
 choice deciding what there future will be
  ending their life on the spot or letting them continue there life with no
  more betrayal if you 
 choose to let them live you will gain respect points
  and they will add on to your rank at the end of each level!
  In conclusion on this occasion do 
 not let gamespot dirty score put
  you off this game (no offense gamespot) as it is an outstanding wii game!!!!
  
  As well with 
 this game i would strongly reccomend buying the wii gun 
  (Makes this game alot easier) no doubt you will need it dont worry though 
  Hmv sell it for just 
 9.99 
::::::

::::::
UserName: westy_93
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 27, 2008 12:49 am PT
Review:  Well red steel offers a first person view shooter where you can use your guns or swords in battle 
 to fight your way through levels of all difficulties, with enemies jumping around every corner. 
 Your main wii controller controls the gun's aiming cursor (quite difficult) . While you use the 
 nunchuck to open doors and press switches and also par when you have your swords equipped.
  In the main game you encounter one on one sword fights with gradually harder opponents who have 
 many different types of sword movements. Some times thay use baseball bats, all varies to waht type 
 of level you are on. Good fun! You are also thrown into battle with many differnt types of guns 
 as you escort your girlfriend's father out of the building safely.
  In my opinion this game is really good with some great ideas but it comes with it's difficulties 
 of aiming your gun etc. But once you get used to it, it's actually pretty easy. A really good fps 
 for the wii. Great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amirali2
Rating: 7
Date: May 10, 2008 1:26 am PT
Review:  The game have a ok story behind it the story goes that your fiance is kidnaped so you need to travel 
 from los angles to tokyo with your wii remote as a gun or a sowrd. First you have hard time to 
 shoot , then when you get the hold of the remote the game is realy fun. There are threechapters 
 in the game but the levels are long. the guns that are avalible are shotgun, pistole. Few hours 
 in to the game you can stop time and mark there body and your carecter would shot them automaticly. 
 At first you have a vike sowrd but then you get a strong sowrd. The game is not good game for people 
 that dont like to restart levels. You might get stock in the game. Simlier games to this game are 
 call of duty 3 , medal of honor heroes 2 , crossbow traning and metroid prime 3 corruption. I like 
 this game but the difculty of the game is not too much. The gameis not better then metroid prime 
 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerGoff
Rating: 7
Date: May 3, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  Pros
  +Good first-person shooter controls
  +Destructive environment and great explosions
  +Four-player deathmatch
  
  Cons
  -Buggy and has some glicthes
  -Sword fights the middle 
 of gunfights
  -With the bad A. I, it could make it easy for you to complete the game
  
  Red Steel on the Wii is a first-person shooter wtth sword fighting. The game starts with scott 
 and his fiancee, Miyu. Short later, she is kidnapped by an japanese mob. So it is up to you to 
 get her back. Some of the voice acting of the game is not good
  
  You play Red Steel with both the Wii remote and nunchuck. For the Wii reomte you use it to aim, 
 fire your gun, and to zoom in or out with some weapons. On the nunchuck you use it to move, interact 
 with switches and doors, throw grenades, and pick up weapons. The controls of this seems good.
 
  
  For the sword fighting, you'll need to use the remote and nunchuck to slash and block. It often 
 come up during gunfights with you enimies. The graphics of Red Steel is not bad, but has a little 
 frame rate issue. Battling the enimies would be good if it wasn't the bad AI. You might finish 
 the game in about 10 hours.
  
  Red Steel is not bad. But rent it first to see if you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hl20302
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 29, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel may look good in it's commercials, but the game is actually worse than it looks. Some 
 people say this game is cr*p, some people even think it's actually the best game ever (Which is 
 not, thats for sure) . What i think about this game... is an average. Red Steel's controls are pretty 
 broken, but the sword fighting isn't that bad as people think. It's pretty easy for me, you just 
 have to use your imagination (Pretend the Wii-mote and Nunchuk are your Swords) . The graphics in 
 this game isn't that bad for the Nintendo Wii. It does have pretty good physics (Like how the NPC 
 dies for example) but bad storyline (In my opinion) and voice acting. Although the multiplayer 
 is pretty fun, the game would have been alittle better if it had online. But i really don't get 
 why can't i shoot a NPC with a sword... probably some dumb honor thing. I kinda had a favorite 
 part of this game and it can be pretty fun sometimes. I like how after you beat some of the singleplayer 
 levels, you can get the chance to replay them again. I also like it had some destructible environments. 
 But after you beat the game, you just... go back to the main menu. But there is no difficulty levels 
 to pick before you start playing a new game (Which is a good and bad thing) . So i think this game 
 is worth a rent, and if you like it... buy it. If you hate it, well... don't buy it i guess but 
 i think it's actually better than Resident Evil: The Umbrella Chronicles (In my Opinion) even though 
 i gave it a higher score than this.
  
  
  My score for this game is:
  
  6.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: energi_monaro
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  When I first got my Wii, I couldn't wait to get home from the local JB Hi-Fi and start swinging 
 around the motion sensing controller in Wii Sports. But with only five modes of gameplay, it got 
 old very quickly, not to mention that it was rather a child's type of game. I needed something 
 more mature. So I picked up Red Steel.
  
  Red Steel is innovative but takes a lot of getting used to. The story is well-told through comic-book 
 panes not unlike Max Payne and you get the general gist of the story right away. Red Steel is a 
 FPS, and a memorable one. The setting is Los Angeles, and you're about to meet your girlfriend's 
 father. As usual, nothing goes right and you're suddenly in the thick of a yakuza gang war. I won't 
 ruin it for you, but you eventually get carted off to Japan to do some hero work.
  
  The controls are very good for a first-gen Wii shooter. The controls will feel a lot more natural 
 if you're used to PC shooters than console games. You use the Nunchuk to move around and perform 
 actions, like opening doors and knocking over tables. You use the remote to aim your weapon and 
 let fly with some bullets. Overall, the controls work a treat and are very natural.
  
  But are we missing something here? A big part of Red Steel is the swordfighting. This is kind of 
 a hit-and-miss affair. The sword controls aren't as responsive as the shooting, and it does get 
 frustrating if you're swordfighting while someone's shooting at you. You can't change from your 
 gun to your sword, it's predefined, so if someone's shooting at you, you can't equip your gun and 
 blast back. This glitch aside, the swordfighting is pretty solid.
  
  The visuals are very good for a Wii game, and demonstrates quality similar to older titles on the 
 Xbox 360. Textures and lighting are immaculate and the frame-rate rarely chugs. Expect a lot of 
 sparks! The physics model is good fun to play around with, as the environments are semi-destructible 
 and the ragdoll effects are awesome. The music sets the scene quite well and the guns sound realistic. 
 However, voice-acting is sub-par. It is rather corny and the Japanese accents are pathetic and 
 would be offensive to the real Japanese!
  
  Despite its flaws, Red Steel is the only 'urban' style shooter on the Wii, so unless you'd rather 
 shoot at Nazis with COD3 or space beasties with MP3 Corruption, then Red Steel is a worthy choice. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xmen1414
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 5:10 am PT
Review:  Red Steel..... IMO I hate it! Horrible graphics stupid sword things, why would you take a sword 
 to a base ball bat? They same thing goes with the other ninja people. I would just take my gun 
 out and put a few bullets in the bad dude. When you hit a guy with a sword it takes like 50 hits. 
 The blocking is just dumb. When you are running up to a guy with a guy it is almost impossible 
 to slice him up. It is easier to just shot them. There is messed up doors, I mean a door was backwards 
 and still opened. It is totally buggy. When you get timed there is no fun involved. It is just 
 an all around bad game. The characters are annoying and dumb. Voice acting is horrible. Game play 
 is fun when you get to shot the cars to kill people. But when you are timed it is just too hard 
 to have fun. 
  
  Gameplay 5.5
  Graphics 4.5
  Sound 3
  Value 6
  Tilt 6 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 19, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  I got this game when the Wii came out because it was pretty much the only game for the system. 
 It had a big hype up when iot came out because the action sequences and it was all the new rage 
 for the Wii, but overtime there have been many better games for the Wii than this one.
  
  Graphics for the game are not all that great, there are lots of choppy things going on, terrible 
 clipping and freezing, and many times the game froz up and I had to restart the system and lose 
 all my progress.
  
  Sound wise it was pretty cool, the guns and sword effects are great when it comes to the way the 
 sound trickles off the weaponry.
  
  But the gameplay has many mixed areas in it. There are a lot of really cool levels and places to 
 hide behind and shoot your gun at people. It appears that a lot of work was done to make so many 
 levels, that if you were to play the game all the way through to the end, it would take quite a 
 long time, I would have guessed anywhere from about 12-15 hours to complete the whole game. But 
 alot of that comes from having to repeat alot of the fighting sequences. THAT is where the game 
 kills me... There are WAY too many swordfighting sequences and as they grow on, they get much harder 
 and the wiimote does not seem to keep up with the sword slashing. It gets extremely annoying! I 
 feel like I've grown a huge bicep from having to thrust and swing the wiimote around like a maniac 
 to get the sword to simply swing at someone! I had to replay many of thw sword sequences over and 
 over due to the mixed bag of the sword working and not working during fights. I understand the 
 honor in swordfighting, but it would be a much simpler game and much quicker and more enjoyable 
 if you could just whip out the gun and shoot the other opponent and get it over with!
  
  The game is a great invention as it was pretty much the first of it's kind on the Wii, but repetitive 
 annoyances in swordfighting cause the game to lack in many respects. If it wasn't for the bad swordfighting 
 sequences, I would be able to get over the choppy graphics and call this game a WINNER! But I have 
 to downgrade the game's score for the bad swordfighting that eventually led to me giving up on 
 this game at 56% completion because I simply could not stand weilding the wiimote in anymore annoying 
 swordfights 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Michael0134567
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2008 5:55 am PT
Review:  The story of this game is you're a guy named Scott and his girlfriend gets taken away by a bunch 
 of bad guys, so what you gotta do is go rescue her and thats basically the whole story. The story 
 is pretty shallow overall and you can't skip cutscenes.6/10
  
  Controls: The controls are good overall, but sometimes don't respond all that well. You shoot with 
 "b" (can also change it to "a" if you want) . During swordfights, you swing the remote to swing your 
 sword and you use the nunchuk to parry. You obviously move with the nunchuk, you press "c" to jump 
 and "z" to crouch, you can only carry two weapons at a time, you press left on the control pad to 
 change weapons. You reload your weapon by swinging the nunchuk down (or by pressing right on the 
 control pad) . To pick up a different weapon, you have to walk over a weapon and swing the nunchuk 
 down.8/10
  
  Graphics: The graphics are good overall and the weapons look good and the explosions look great. People 
 look ugly up close and kinda blocky. You will notice a bunch of little bugs and glitches throughout 
 the game though such as dead bodies shaking and dead bodies getting stuck on stuff. And you will 
 notice a good amount a good looking textures.8/10
  
  Sound: The game sounds pretty good overall with great sound effects from the guns and swords, and 
 the voice acting is suckish overall. And the game has some great music such as some pop music and 
 more.9/10
  
  Value: The game will probably take you around 10 hours to beat it, and theres no online play, and 
 theres just multiplayer splitscreen so theres not much value left after beating it unless you have 
 friends to play multiplayer with and if you want to get 100% complete in the single player.7.5/10
 
  
  Overall: This is a good launch game for Wii overall but it could be so much better and it's certainly 
 worth a rental. so if you're looking for a shooter for Nintendo Wii, this would be a decent choice, but 
 I would recommend renting it first. It's not for everyone.
  Score Overall:8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AegisAtreyu
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 10, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  The best part of this game is the last third which in my opinion gets it pretty much right, it 
 looks gorgeous and pacing is pitched well. The final boss is a little bit of a let down though.
 
  
  The first act doesn't really impress much as it's mainly warehouses and the story is crap at this 
 point. The sword fights (which have separate mechanics and are pretty much scripted) aren't challenging 
 enough either at this point. It's not till you get to the second act with it's mission select hub 
 (Harry's bar) that you see some potential. Problem is that as you have a levelling system and gradually 
 get stronger each mission has a level attached, you can enter them before you reach that level 
 but they are a little harder. It's not exactly the best mechanic as it only gives the illusion 
 of freedom in some ways.
  
  The controls themselves work fine with exception of slow turning, and kicking tables over which 
 doesn't get used that much. They were easier for me than duel analogue control which I find difficult 
 to enjoy, but then I was never a first person shooter gamer.
  
  Hopefully the sequel will be more like the last act of this game with a bit more variety in sword 
 and gun-play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Draylorn
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 11:33 pm PT
Review:  Alright, so most of us were pretty critical of Red Steel. It promised a lot, and didn't meet the 
 hype, hype, and overhype. It was also a launch title. In that light, this game deserves to be reviewed 
 again. I played it back when it came out, and like it then, probably more than most people.
  
  This game has both first-person sword fights AND first-person shooting! No other Wii games 
 have both of these things going for them. YAY!
  
  The controls are not the best, but they do work (unless you're too stupid to operate them) EH.
 
  
  The graphics are fine in my opinion. Not Metroid Prime 3 good, but still good. I thought they looked 
 better than Gamecube but maybe I'm full of **** Some nice close-up texture resolutions and nice 
 environments. YAY!
  
  The game is fun, any way you look at it. Obviously moderately high production value at least. YAY!
 
  
  It is totally linear. EH.
  
  The plot and dialogue are cheesy. EH.
  
  The AI is dumb as hell. EH.
  
  I can hold my gun sideways. YAY!
  
  So that's 4 YAYs and 
 4 EHs. That keeps it from anything over an 8 for sure. Statistically, Gamespot's score in pretty 
 much dead-on, but to me the good things about this game outweigh the problems, and it deserves 
 a little forgiveness and extra credit for being a lauch title, and for being unique.
  
  Yes there are other shooters for the Wii, but they don't offer the swordplay, you can only play 
 Metroid so much, and I'm sick of WWII, so **** Call of Duty and Medal of Honor. I liked Red Steel 
 and still do. I'll keep my copy around for whenever I'm feeling bummed about the lack of good mature 
 Wii titles.
  
  All in all, I have a fond memory of Red Steel but it is flawed, so I won't go crawling back to 
 it and give it a 9 or even an 8 like I initially wanted to, but I will give it an 7.5. They ALMOST 
 got this one right, but suffered launchtitle-itis. That's okay. I hope they come back and offer 
 another gun+sword game that is well deserving of a higher score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thibbledorfP
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  Red Steel is servicable, but the level design, as well as the design of the weapons and gameplay, 
 is uninspired and monotonous. It can be fun, but ultimately, it is worth waiting for another great 
 shooter for the Wii.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics are very good for the Wii, pretty much original Xbox and PS2 standard. Indoor areas 
 can get repetitive, but overall the characters and all are well-designed and look great.
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound didn't stand out in any way. Voice-overs and effects were servicable. Jap-pop 
 was a great choice for music, as it tends to go well in contrast to violence or dramatic scenes. 
 However the choice of jap-pop is nothing special.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  First off, the controls for this game are quite good. Guns respond well to aiming and firing, the 
 katana handles well, reloading and opening doors are chores that you don't mind much at all. Lobbing 
 grenades works fairly well and is a fresh idea. However, the combat is way too simple for a variety 
 of reasons.
  
  The katana combat is a low point, the idea is obviously cool, but the fights are simple and surprisingly 
 dull. It is more of a Wii Sports type of sword fighting, why can't we get real, hectic sword fighting 
 in a game, with more than two moves? The gun combat does not fail in any area, and the basic function 
 is ok. But they could have made the guns look like they have more impact.
  
  The main problem is the design, however. Levels are designed for direct shootouts with enemies, 
 no real strategy and no real opportunity to take cover. Aiming is well-designed, but not that fun. 
 There is the option to zoom up which is necessary, but shootouts get repetitive fast. There is 
 no real challenege in shooting, there are hard parts, but they are hard because of trial and error. 
 More effort should have been made to make the shooting more brisk, such as making head shots count 
 for more. Aim-assist would have been better than the zoom option for automatic weapons, and less 
 boring. 
  
  The length is great, and the cut-scenes are not half-bad. The iapanese revenge-honour story has 
 good atmosphere. The story and the characters are horribly contrived, especially your main character.... 
 just read his bio in the manual, talk about cliched 80's American movie fantasy. 
  
  Multi-play can be fun for a while, but suffers from the same problems with pacing that the campaign 
 has. The game can offer fun moments, but they run out too fast. Wii shooters will always be more 
 simple than console shooters and be a bit slower, by nature of the Wii being a system built on 
 motion sensing. But more could have been done to make Red Steel more dynamic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alaarajab
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Launch day. Set up the Wii. Rip the cellophane off the new games. Jump in head first. Sorry Zelda, 
 you're not my style. I need to shoot something and that's where Red Steel comes in.
  
  I've been watching the development of Red Steel for awhile as I was quite intrigued to play an 
 action game where I would be fused together with my onscreen counterpart, shooting and slicing 
 my way through hordes of enemies and trying to decide who I will shoot and who I will slice. But 
 the reality soon came crashing down around me: the game will decide who I can slice, not me. If 
 my enemy has a sword, I will meet him with my blade. I'm all for honor but I'd prefer to just shoot 
 some of these samurai dudes. Unfortunately that's the not the worst of it.
  
  It's not an unplayable game by any means but there are all kinds of unpolished elements that just 
 make it appear rushed at best and unfinished at worst. During the gameplay you'll witness clipping, 
 floating characters, stuck characters, slowdown and unfair and inconsistent AI which will see them 
 standing around waiting to be killed, sniping you from unseen areas and other frustrating trials. 
 Some other elements conspire to erode any realism the game may generate. The levels are linear 
 and you are forced into swordplay whenever you're confronted by an enemy wielding a blade  even 
 though you may have a couple of guns on your person. Not only can't you use your guns but you can't 
 even shoot at one of these swordsmen from a distance as the bullet will just go through him. Is 
 this game trying to enforce chivalry? I say you should be able to use whatever you've got in inventory. 
 To paraphrase the classic Indiana Jones saying, "Don't bring a sword to a gunfight."
  
  There is so much potential to Red Steel that it almost begs for a sequel, if anything, to get it 
 right. The story is interesting as are the cast of enemy characters, the Japanese mafia known as 
 the Yakuza. Unfortunately they are reduced to the level of the thugs on the 60s Batman television 
 series. Playing as the nondescript Scott, the main protagonist, your girlfriend has been kidnapped 
 by members of the Yakuza, which are hostile towards her father who is a high-ranking member of 
 a different gang. Travelling to Japan, you befriend a rival family and by performing various tasks, 
 they assist you in locating your girlfriend. Here you will begin training to become a samurai. 
 The action will take you to warehouses, industrial compounds, high tech offices, apartments and 
 the shady, neon-soaked, parts of the city. The game definitely takes its cue from Max Payne but 
 is unable to make the gameplay and the storyline flow. It even features a form of bullet time called 
 Focus Mode in which time slows down allowing you to pick off the enemy AI in style.
  
  Guns include pistols, rifles, shotguns, automatic weapons as well as a sniper rifle. Using the 
 main controller you aim your gun, pressing a button to raise it and help steady it for more accuracy. 
 The targeting reticle is fairly generous and if you want to zoom in you just point the controller 
 at the screen. The Nunchuck allows you to reload your weapons and also acts as the action command 
 to do things such as open doors and move objects. The Nunchuck also controls the direction of your 
 character. The Wii-Mote and Nunchuck work well and feel comfortable even though you'd think your 
 arms would be exhausted after a few hours of straight play. There isn't much of a learning curve 
 which is even made all the more easier by the fact that the enemy is so willing to get shot. Sometimes 
 they'll take cover and other times they'll just get up in plain view and go for a stroll.
  
  Using the swords requires some different finagling of the control system but it's equally intuitive. 
 The onscreen sword will mimic the motions you make with the main controller, with the exception 
 of the forward thrust. The Nunchuck will control your character's movement but it will also be 
 used to block enemy hits. The guns and the sword have a limited assortment of moves which tend 
 to make the gameplay repetitive even though the difficulty ramps up in the middle. To regain your 
 health all you have to do is take cover and rest for a while. In no time you'll be ready for more 
 punishment.
  
  The single-player mode is a good size but it could have been distilled to a third of that so that 
 it would be less redundant. A four-player, split screen mode is the only multi-player option. It's 
 fun but it won't keep you and your buddies interested for days on end due to the lack of depth.
 
  
  Some of the environments are visually stunning and they manage to take plenty of damage from your 
 gun and sword. But there are also some blurry textures and cheesy character models. Some of the 
 levels look like a shooting gallery with stiff looking characters popping out from behind buildings 
 and doors. The explosions are spectacular if not a little over the top. The sound effects, with 
 the exception of the voiceacting (which is terribly bad) , are right on the money. They are well 
 recorded and well balanced. The ambient suspense music is just as good as anything you're likely 
 to see in an Oscar-winning movie. There are also some decent pop and rock tunes to lighten the 
 atmosphere. In terms of overall graphic prowess, Red Steel definitely looks better than a Cube 
 game without even breaking a sweat and that increases exponentially if you're playing on a TV with 
 excellent resolution. I'd say that for comparison sake, RS looks on par with some of the best Xbox 
 games available, perhaps even slightly cleaner yet. For those who say the Wii doesn't have any 
 graphic muscle, I say "Shut yo mouth. Shaft!" You won't confuse a Red Steel with Gears of War or 
 Resistance: Fall of Man, but it's clear that the Wii has some power in its corner. It will be interesting 
 to see how it increases with experience in the hands of talented developers. 
  
  Don't wait to get your hands on a Wii system but you might want to wait for Red Steel 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pangster007
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 26, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  Red Steel, I got this game with Sonic and the Secret Rings at a 2-for-30 deal from Argos. A good 
 deal (15 a Wii game) considering that it first came out at 40. Ok, granted, the reviews have 
 been less than stellar, but considering this is an exclusive Wii game, one of the few FPS out there 
 using the Wiimote and the incredible drop in price for the past weeks, i felt this game deserved 
 a chance. Here is my Red Steel review.
  
  When the game was first revealed, there were some bull-shots with incredibly high AA put on, it 
 touted japanese sword fights as well as 'true-to-life' gun shooting - and if anyone went with what 
 was promised, they'd be hugely disappointed. Not only does the game look both weak and strong in 
 parts (most often on-par with a PS2 title) , the sword fights were nothing ground-breaking (could 
 have been done with mere button presses) and the shooting controls were far from comfortable to 
 use (although intuitive) . If however, you took this game cautiuosly, especially after reading negative 
 reviews, you'll begin to realise that this is one very unpolished game, a very small diamond in 
 the rough.
  
  The game opens up with a strange menu select screen whereby you drag icons onto a screen to choose. 
 New game? Drag the 'New game' icon onto the large monitor. Load Game? Drag. It was puzzling at 
 first, i have to admit. Starting a new game, you're 'treated' to a set of still images that move 
 and are presented in a dramatic fashion. Accompanied by some bad dialogue that can be mistaken 
 for cheap japanese-to-english dubbing; the story begins with you as a bodyguard named Scott. Luckily 
 for you (or maybe unluckily) , you've become engaged to your client, an attractive Miyu Sato, the 
 daughter of the Sato Group. After a brief talk at the dinner table, it's been decided that you'll 
 meet Miyu's father and tell him the good news. Things don't go as planned however, as another group/gang 
 launches an assault against the Sato Group. Both Miyu and Isao Sato (her father) are in trouble. 
 Naturally, as a bodyguard, you give chase only to be knocked-out round a corner. Upon waking up, 
 you pickup a handgun from the floor and make your way through the dining area and kitchens, looking 
 for Miyu.
  
  The game starts out linearly and doesn't do anything impressive. Looking back at it now, it is 
 literally a training course of which the difficulty is anything but training. Pacing is well planned-out 
 but ineffective if the majority of players are going to drop out 30 minutes into the game; after 
 the linearity of game, it suddenly pans out and splits into 'chapters'. Each chapter is given to 
 you by different members of the Sanro kai. This hub-like section of the game gives you the freedom 
 to choose missions, practice and 'gear up' on new arsenal at the bar, OR head out to the artistic 
 setting of the traditional japanese dojo (in the middle of the city!) and practice/learn sword 
 techniques. It is only when you reach this section of the game is when things really do start looking 
 up. The graphics, modelling and locations suddenly look and feel better. The story finally drums 
 up some much-needed interest and dares to go out of it's way to be different from typical shooters. 
 There are points at which you really have to try and snipe enemies from a distance (sniping is 
 almost always a good highlight of a fps) . There are locations that are quite unique, such as the 
 japanese bathhouse, geisha house and amusement 'arena'. Even the dock has some pretty interesting 
 structure as you work your way through the conveyor belt of the factory. To spice things up, you 
 can throw grenades or roll grenades that are admittingly satisfying with the motion controls (although 
 not particularly effective in both execution and use) . The sword-fighting sections of the game 
 does break up the gun-action a lot. And one of the best bits of the game is the ability to 'stop 
 time' - or focus to the point at which time literally slows down (an ability of ninjas apparently 
 according to one of the characters in the game) . Slowing down time, gives you the advantage of 
 aiming faster than the enemies, but more importantly disarm your opponents for them to submit to 
 surrender. Shooting an enemy's gun in slow-time and waving your gun at them afterwards, motioning 
 them to put down their gun, they'll drop to their knees with hands in the air. Not only do you 
 save bullets but you will also recieve respect points which fill up your focus guauge and build 
 up your rank. 
  
  Despite sounding positive in the last paragraph or so, there are some serious negatives - most 
 of which is borne out of being rushed to release. Firstly the controls, "oh my god!, it's absolute 
 *&!" - actually, not really - but probably what the majority of gamers will say. I found the controls 
 to be passable at first but still difficult that it needed getting used to. And to be honest, by 
 the time I saw the credits rolling, I still weren't fully used to them. You can zoom in by holding 
 down A to 'lock on a target' and thrusting the wiimote towards the screen, it's clumsy in execution 
 but unfortunately essential for the sniper rifle. Throwing or rolling grenades require motioning 
 the wiimote while pressing 'down on the d-pad'. And to slow down time, you hold 'A' and press 'c' 
 which works really well and is one of the best parts of the game. When duelling with swords, attacking 
 requires motioning the wiimote left, right, up or down. In reality this could easily be mapped 
 to the d-pad which could have been a good idea since the gesture-recognition is quite hap-hazard. 
 You can dodge by holding down 'C' and moving left or right. Dodging is essential in monitoring 
 the enemies' attack patterns but the combination of C + movement makes the dodging a split-second 
 slower to execute so don't be surprised in getting hit as you dodge 'too slow'.
  
  If you can get past these negatives (sword-fights seeming to be impossible, fustrating controls) , 
 you also need to put up with the bad voice-acting, derivative story and the occasional spelling 
 mistakes in the subtitles (WTH?) . Inexcusable. Really. *shakes head*. There are some positive things 
 to say about the audio of the game; the music hastens and builds up when in combat and loosens 
 up when no enemies are around. The cheesey JPop music as this happens is strangely quite pleasing 
 to me (: P) . In the sword-fights, authentic Taiko drums boom out with tense ferocity. And when an 
 area is cleared of enemies, japanese-sounding wind instruments play out in a short 'cool-hero' 
 moment. The graphics are a mixed bag; the character animations and AI are poorly polished despite 
 them jumping over obstacles and hiding round corners or ducking for cover - yet the animation and 
 modelling of characters in the sword-fights are nicely done. Character and environmental models 
 have low poly counts and poor textures but the lighting in some scenes really makes things look 
 special. Unrealistic, Over-the-top explosions from vehicles, oil drums are quite stimulating but 
 seriously dampens the pace of the game if you yourself are caught in an explosion every now and 
 again (instant death) .
  
  When having completed the game, i approached the multiplayer of this game and dragged my brother 
 into it. the game supports 4 player split-screen but the chance of you having four full controllers 
 and 3 other willing-friends to play the game is slim. Firstly, I completely dominated my brother 
 in deathmatch unsurprisingly as i was somewhat used to the controls. The controls actually seem 
 better in multiplayer than singleplayer but despite this, other players would probably not enjoy 
 it. It actually feels very similar to Goldeneye and if more time was spent playing in multiplayer, 
 i'm quite certain that it'd be very fun. But simply-put, it's a decent attempt on the Wii but needs 
 a lot more work if it's to persuade you from better, more fun multiplayer options in other games. 
 It's a decent attempt because it actually uses a few unique things such as the wiimote speakers, 
 choosing abilities such as faster rate of fire, stronger bullets, or healing faster when activating 
 special. The sword melee attack is quite fun too although it feels a bit random at times.
  
  When thinking of this game a week or so after completion, the game was worth the 15 i paid 
 for. The game definitely had its moments and actually does have a decent multiplayer option (too 
 bad you won't find many people wanting to touch the game though) . The price for this game has been 
 plummeting for the past weeks and so don't be surprised seeing this go for 10 now. Some rush-work 
 put into this game to launch it for Wii-release has hurt it tremendously - what's the excuse for 
 having spelling mistakes? Why have lack-lustre still-images for cut-scenes? (i can understand for 
 artistic reason but overall, it just seems cheap) . Awful voice-acting. Oh, and why are there some, 
 but not a lot of, bugs/glitches in the game? The ending had some satisfying music but why did it 
 have a single screen of 'Thank you for playing' in ten or so different languages and lack of pictures 
 with the credits? Why is it that a certain chapter in the game has my Wii constantly reading the 
 disc really loudly? (:|) . Considering all of these things, it seems as though the game's target 
 was not set very high or that it was simply a rushed project. In a strange way however, i admit 
 now that i'm looking forward to Red Steel 2, only for how much this game can improve. If the promised 
 online support, more optimised controls (post Metroid Prime 3, Medal of Honour 2) and better graphics 
 holds true, Red Steel 2 could turn out to be what Red Steel should have been - a kickass, unique 
 action game that actually makes you feel like you're wielding a japanese sword and feel like a 
 badass as you hold your pistol/wiimote side-on, gangster-styIe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 9, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel oozed potential, it could have been so awesome, I probably would have pre-ordered it 
 had I owned a Wii at the time. Luckily I didn't, but my friend did, which allowed me to try it 
 out before I spent $50 on it.
  
  The graphics are probably the best part of this game. They're solid, and pretty good looking for 
 a Wii title. This will probably remain to be one of the best looking games on the Wii with a focus 
 on realism. Other games that do not focus on realism though, like Super Mario Galaxy or Super Smash 
 Bros. Brawl, blow it away. The frame-rate can drop from time to time, especially when there's explosions 
 going on, and the load times can be ridiculous, but overall the game runs relatively solid.
  
  The soundtrack is pretty generic as far as I'm concerned. Nothing special here folks, but nothing 
 dreadful either. The voice acting is pretty mediocre, and even offensive to the Asian culture at 
 times, but that may be in part to the horribly written script.
  
  The game-play is where this game should have really shined, but that is certainly not the case. The 
 enemy AI is idiotic. The controls, where this game should once again shine, are actually quite 
 horrible and barely work. A lot of the time, they will aim in the opposite direction of where you're 
 pointing the Wii-mote. Don't even bother trying to fight in close quarters combat, well, unless 
 you feel like a good laugh.
  
  Just an overall big disappointment. Maybe they'll fix these problems for Red Steel 2, maybe they 
 won't. Bottom line, stay away from this game unless you're truly desperate for something to play 
 on your Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finishedmagicks
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  Yes, I know red Steel didn't really live up to the hype when it was shown in the trailers and how 
 it was going to be a launch title, but it really isn't that bad either.
  
  To begin, i don't think Ubi Soft Paris got to know the Japanese very well, since most of the dialogue 
 is terrible. The major cutscenes are told from the perspective of comic book strip-like pics. You 
 play as a bodyguard named Scott, and your fiance is kidnapped by a Japanese Mob who holds her as 
 a barganing chip for a special katana. So theres not much of a twist in the story for this game, 
 Scott is supposed to go after her and rescue her, thats about it.
  
  For the gameplay, it is decent, you use the wiimote/nunchuk combo to use for moving around, aiming 
 and shooting your gun. You can only hold two guns in your inventory (Halo/CoD anyone?) and you 
 have a health bar which automatically recharging if you avoid damage for a few seconds, which is 
 unrealistic for the most part, since you dont have an energy shield like in halo. In Call of Duty 
 2 and 4 you can do that as well, but you lose massive amounts of health at a time depending on 
 the difficulty setting. Anyways, on to the AI/physics, AI is usually lackluster, since sometimes 
 guys dont even realise you are there, run into walls, stand there waiting to be an easy target, 
 or break into seizures when they die. The explosions are top notch though. Now for the sword fights, 
 they are pretty awkward, you put your gun away even when times where the clock is ticking, and 
 the enemy is usually limited to 2 hit combos most of the time, but later in the game they are fun 
 to fight against.
  
  Im not even going to describe the multiplayer, its bassically 4 player deathmatch with little difference 
 between the maps and gametypes
  
  As much as I hate to say it but the title of the game doesnt do justice to the fact that there 
 are no spills of blood at all except for a certain point in the game. This game is pretty decent, 
 not that good, bout CERTAINLY not as bad as gamespot says. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_jesus
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  man was this game funn. An intriguing story line about yakuza members betraying their lord and 
 dying, love between the main character and his wife who gets taken away on an airplane by yakuza 
 boss and death lots of death. with great guns to choose from like uzi pistol rifle and the shotgun 
 it takes full control of the wii-mote. the sword battling part is sorta hard to learn but since 
 i have skill it was easy. blah blah blah blah blah you progress and you find the yakuza boss and 
 you thjink the game is over then BAM he escapes with the girl and then your like nooooooooooooooooooo 
 but its ok you will find her with the help of the weapon dude and some training so you go along 
 and you fight fight fight you blow stuff up kill people cut stuff kill stuf by cutting up and then 
 you get to the end and win or else 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tttroy1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel is a great game, I don't even have it, I rented it, I've been playing it for three days 
 and I was hooked from the start. The controls take a little bit of getting used to, but once you 
 figure it out your set for a great adventure.
  If you're tired of games that only last a few hours, you should try this game, it's long, I'm only 
 a quarter way done with it. The gameplay is fantastic, running and gunning, along with katana fights 
 which are outragously fun. If you ever wanted to chop somebody up, here's your chance. The storyline 
 is unique, interesting, and intrequet. Saving your fiance from the yakuza can't get much funner 
 than this. You'll be taken from Los Angeles to Japan, learn the ways of the sword, and even slowing 
 down time for tagging enemies and disarming them.
  This game is worth the buy, or rent, or whatever, play Red Steel, it's amazing, it's a treat for 
 FPS lovers of all kinds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: idspence
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  Red steel is a very good game and it features some of the best levels out there. At some times 
 I found the game hard and confusing but I still got it and kept moving on. The game is VERY long 
 and I like long games that have a lot of levels in them, that way you can play them for a long 
 time and not get board. There is no cheat codes for this game so you will have to just play it 
 the old fashion way (aka. NO CHEATING) At some times I found the game glitching but that will happen 
 to all games. It wont send you any Wii messages nor does in use Mii but it is still great. The 
 sward fighting is very fun and hard at the same time, you use two swards;
  - A good sward
  - A broken sward
  You use the broken sward to make your opponent loose balance so that you can 
 hit him.
  
  You may want to rent it first just in case you don't like it, but I would say just but buy it.
 
  
  In the end I give it a 10/10!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamez-king
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  It came out on the same day as the wii, so had an advantage. This could've been a 9 or 9.5 but 
 there a few bugs but all in all a fun game for fps addicts.
  The first fps ( first person shooter) on the wii. Its about an american who falls for a japanese 
 girl but soon to find that her dad is being chased by the yakuza. Shes kidnapped so you set off 
 to rescue her. Although its called RED Steel there is no blood whatsoever in the game. Also you 
 never see yourself. The graphics are 7/10 because they resemble gamecube graphics as in the people 
 arent clear as youd like but the environment is very good as there is a number of different varieties 
 of places. Onto the gameplay which at its best is shooting a weak AI and slashing a guy with a 
 sword. However the AI is somewhat ' demented' because even if they're inches away they'll still 
 miss. But on the whole it will take some practice using the wiimote to aim and the enemy can be 
 sometimes hard to pick off if in great numbers. The sword fights get harder as you progress through 
 the game but all you do is swing your wiimote and hope for the best. There are unlockable combos 
 but the are extremel hard to pull off as you have to do a series of movements with the nunchuk 
 and wiimote at the same time. The controls for the wii are ok as you use the B button to shoot 
 and the nunchuk joystick to mve around. An annoying factor can be that the pointer can go all over 
 the place and as a result the enemy kills you. The multiplayer isnt great with deathmatch being 
 satisfying and 'killer rules' an interesting take on multiplayer : 
  Killer Rules
  Number of players: 4
  Each player receives their orders by phone (speaker in the remote) .
  
 First to accomplish his mission wins. IMO, very annoying mode. The 
  speaker is loud enough that everyone can hear it. Plus your remote 
  is vibrating non stop throughout 
 the level.
  In conclusion its a fun enough game , ive heard rumours of a sequel - that should be much better! 
 It couldve been a wii instant hit if only they'd patched up a few minor bugs.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iain-Kinloch
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel is a decent First Person Shooter (FPS) for the Wii and can geuinely be fun when everything 
 works, the problem is that a lot of the time there are problems with, well, everything. Graphical 
 glitches, Controls not working, very bad voice acting, the list could go on but I'll deal with 
 every aspect of the game seperately.
  
  Gameplay :
  
  The basics are quite simple really, walk fowards and backwards and strafe left and right with the 
 analogue stick, reload and open doors/activate switches by flicking the nunchuck down. The cursor 
 is controlled by the remote obviously, and by default the B button in used to fire. This all works 
 fine (but the cursor does flicker a bit for some reason from time to time) , but there are some 
 more advanced things that don't work well at all. To throw grenades, you must hold down on the 
 remotes' D-pad and make a throwing gesture with the nunchuck, this works but accuracy is a problem 
 as whilst you're doing this the cursor is still aiming for you which is fiddily, and if you want 
 you can roll the grenade by doing a rolling gesture, this would have been great for catching enemies 
 unawares but it just never works. Not once have I got it to work in the whole game which is a shame. 
 Of course different people will make different motions with the controller but I guess that others 
 will have the same problem that I have. Also, zooming in by pushing the remote fowards works, but 
 you have to hold it there or you zoom back out again, doing this can be uncomfortable. But the 
 single worst thing to do with gameplay has to be the sword fighting. The simple things like swinging 
 the remote to make your character do the same just don't work sometimes. And there were a couple 
 of fights where the dodge controls wouldn't work at all and the block command didn't work either, 
 so it was just a never ending circle of death until, amazingly, the controls jumped into life and 
 I won, hooray. There are also a couple of special things like being able to freeze time for a few 
 seconds but they worked fine enough for me.
  
  Graphics :
  
  The graphics range from quite nice in some places to downright ugly in others. For example, for 
 every nice looking garden with great colours and textures and so on and so forth, there are a few 
 corridors that look like, um, brown, er, yeah, brown, just four completely brown walls that have 
 nothing on them. But like I said, some areas look dare I say it, good, and there are some pretty 
 good characters aswell, so long as your not too picky about these things. Guns look the part I 
 suppose and the explosions are really good too (really exagerated stuff, like forklifts that kill 
 every one in range in a ball of flaming death, mwahahahaha) .
  
  Sound :
  
  The music definately has its moments (good by the way) , specifically when it changes from slow 
 and calm for when your just wandering around collecting ammo for the next fight to fast and exciting 
 for when said fight starts. Again, explosions are particularly well done as well as sound effects 
 on the whole being quite good, but, yet again Red Steel fails to do something well by producing 
 quite possibly the worst voice acting I've ever heard. Now let's be clear, I'm not a snob when 
 it comes to graphics and sound, but Red Steel is just plain bad at some things, especially voice 
 acting, its just bad, let's never speak of it again.
  
  Value :
  
  Red Steel has about 10-12 hours worth of single player missions for you to work through, quite 
 good for an FPS, and also has a basic multiplayer mode for up to four poeple. The multiplayer is 
 all right. There is a Deathmatch mode and Team deathmatch mode for 1-4 players which is very basic 
 stuff. There is also another mode called Killer, for four players only, each player gets a personal 
 mission through the speaker on the remote, and has to carry it out. I haven't got enough controllers 
 to try this with anyone but it sounds quite interesting anyway. Also you can replay any mission 
 you want to try and improve your score which adds to the length of the game a bit.
  
  Overall :
  
  What you get from Red Steel really depends on what you want. If you want a truly 
 fantastic FPS for the Wii for goodness sake don't buy this, but if you're interested in it or want 
 a decent action game you could do worse than pick up Red Steel, especially if you get it for a 
 good price.
  
  note: the game got a hard difficulty rating due to control issues, not because its very challenging. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shak02
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 20, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  It's a good game with lots of excitement and action, but the clunky controls keep spinning around 
 the room. If u don't have the perfect distance from the television the controller will keep going 
 around the room. After playing it for 1 hour i put it away and i haven't touch it for a month. 
 It gets really annoying to play when you don't have it in the sensor the right distance because 
 when you are in the middle of an intense battle and you start to lose controller of the sensor 
 your wide open for a shot, because you have no idea where your going. For everyone who says it's 
 a good game, for me its no because the width of my room isn't big enough to play this game. If 
 the make a sequel they better make the sensor a little bit less sensitive, because the game was 
 driving me nuts. I'm not trying to be offensive to all the people who enjoy this game but If it 
 weren' t for the action and the movie like quality of this game, I would give it .01/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljlrj
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  People seem to have mixed opinions about this game. You will either love it or completely hate 
 it. To me, it felt like i was playing the same generic fps crap ive played dozens of times before.
 
  
  Lets start off with the presentation.
  
  The main menu is pretty stylish, with nice neon japanese buttons. But the rest of the interface 
 is pretty dull, but simple to navigate through. The environments vary, you will be playing some 
 urban areas and some nice japanese areas, nothing to groundbreaking.
  The cutscenes however are presented in comic book like stills. They look pretty neat but are unimpressive 
 and seem rushed as a substitute for better in game cinematics. There are a few in game cutscenes, 
 but these are fairly simple and unimpressive as well, they are seen through the first person perspective 
 similar to what you will see during gameplay, they are nothing special.
  
  With all this, don't come to expect a great storyline either, the storyline for Red Steel is simple, 
 your girlfriend is kipnaped and you will have to go rescue her.... sigh*
  
  Graphics. Graphics are average, and can vary. At times they will look good (lighting, particle 
 effects, explosions) and at times they will be absolute garbage. You can quickly see that they 
 are comprised of low res textures, overused bloom effects which make the characters look like cardboard 
 cutouts. Bad animations and low polys. Your arm on the screen looks seems like it doesn't have 
 elbows and looks very awkward. Lack of bump mapping is unfortunate. This game looks worse than 
 some last gen titles.
  
  Sound is also like the graphics. The gunshots, ambience and music are all solid. The orchestral 
 soundtrack is top notch, great japanese/urban feel. On the bad side, the voice acting and dialouge 
 is so painfully bad it's laughable. It seems like it was written in japanese and translated to 
 english by some non english speaking japanese people. The lips also don't match the talking so 
 it sounds like a dub off a kung fu movie.
  
  Gameplay. Controls are a HUGE problem. They are unintutive and unresponsive. Also, at random times 
 will the aiming cursor go all crazy and spazzy, losing your aim (when trying to do a quick turn, 
 your aimer will lose control) . The turning speed is so slow that by the time you turn a corner 
 you will get shot. But if you give it some time and patience, the controls will grow on you and 
 they will seem a bit better, but there is major room for improvement.
  Nuchauku controls are fairly simple, rolling grenades, reloading and opening doors with the nunchauks 
 is pretty fun. Overall, controls need to be improved, normal controls from controllers using the 
 anologs are more accurate and intutive than what Red Steel offers.
  
  Swordplay is simple, parry then attack. There is a set of predetermined strikes so don't expect 
 the action on screen to mimic what you do with the wiimote. Swordplay is easy at start but gets 
 harder, and boring, quick. AI completely sucks, they stand there and do nothing at times and at 
 times they have superhuman 100% accuracy.
  
  Now lets talk multiplayer. LAME. 4 maps, although different in setting, dont differ much at all. 
 Level design seems dull and plain. To top all that you have a total of around 6 weapons... weak.
 
  You've got the basic modes like deathmatch, team deathmatch. But there is this one funky mode, 
 "Killer" your wiimote rings and tells you a specific objective to accomplish, but when putting 
 the wiimote to your ear, your aim on the screen goes all crazy and will get you killed. Objectives 
 are also very repetitive and similar.
  
  Multiplayer is pretty fun, has a goldeneye feel, but its even more basic than goldeneye itself. 
 An N64 Game.
  
  Don't be fooled into the saying that the wiimote is great for fps and will reinvent the control. 
 Red Steel tries to make good use of the wiimote but fails completely. The game is generic, uninspired, 
 unimpressive and unpolished. It doesn't seem finished. And to top it off, controls that completely 
 suck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sword-man
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  this game is very great . but there is only one thing is not realy good it's the graphics. only 
 that thing but the control is very good the sounds is the best . and you can hear some voices on 
 the wii remote like the relode changing the weapon and more. but i think it must be more than 5.5 
 .i forgot to tell you that the story lind is good i have'nt finish that game yet and i have'nt 
 saw what's more in that game . for these guy's who dont know and sayed to them selves [i will buy 
 this game or not] . take my advice believe me that game is good. if this game on the play station 
 portable or the play station 3 it will be sucks. 
  [it's worth playing on the wii] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NirdBerd
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  When I picked up this game I hated it so badly because I was just another moron who despised the 
 game right from the start, but weeks went by and I've gotten the hang of these controls enough 
 to barely get hit, dodge, shoot, etc, It was also BORING when I wasn't use to the controls, but 
 like I said, get the hang of everything, this is the Wii after all, your using a remote and a nunchuk, 
 not a joypad. 
  
  Also I'd like to add on how much this game brings back the Goldeneye feel, I'm so impressed, although 
 Goldeneye N64 is like 10x better, Red Steel really does make you feel like you're playing Goldeneye 
 on the Wii.
  
  If you asked me about this game, I'd tell you to buy it - ONLY IF - you don't mind taking 1 to 
 7 days at least, getting use to the controls. And you miss Goldeneye. And you just love good ol' 
 shooters.
  
  Do not buy it if..
  You don't read manuals when you buy games
  or
  You think you can get use to the controls during a 'tutorial' level or, pretty much the first level. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killip
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  Im not ging to lie people. When this was announced and saw it in action i jumped up and down in 
 excitement. The thought of using the wii-mote to actually move yur characters arm around and having 
 samurai sword fights made me smile.
  When it came down to launch day though i jumped straight for it put it in my wii. After an hour 
 or so of getting used to the controls the game seemed to have lived up to its word. After finishing 
 the game i relised just how wrong i was.
  While the gun fights are ok (at best) the guns feel light weight and under achiving. The story 
 was a massive let down too. Your girl friend gets kidnapped on your way to dinner to see your soon 
 to be father inlaw (lame) . The most annoy and the biggest letdown for me was the sword fights though. 
 One on one with an enemy you suffle around the guy and give him a simple swing and hope you get 
 lucky. Because its that hard to actually work because its clumsy. The multiplayer is terrible as 
 well, up to four players run around a small map shooting each other worked for goldeneye on the 
 N64 doesnt work in this day and age you'd expect more. 
  
  
  Graphics: Bland Chracter models but when you get out into the red light district etc the enviroments 
 are nice looking. The lighting is really nice as well. But the glitches ruin the overall experience 
 for the eyes.
  
  Sound: Good Soundtrack some dodgy voice acting at times. But the soundFX from the guns are nice 
 and the reload noises come from the remote. which is nice.
  
  Gameplay: Run around shoot shoot. the sword fight. shoot shoot. sword fight. Thats pretty much 
 it.
  
  Shitebox: Poor story, The god awful glitches theres so many!! mulitplayer is dyer. Sword fights.
 
  
  Overall: I know this is a game that has split the fan base for shooters some love it some hate 
 it. Bur unfortinatly for me i hate it, Im more annoyed that ubisoft messed it up after thinking 
 they couldnt go wrong. The controls are good and the graphics have its moments but overall its 
 just an average shooter with motion controls. Can't really tell you if you should buy it, your 
 gonna have to decide that for yourself but in this day i'd say buy metroid 3 much much much better.
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_Guy_07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 9/10 - The gameplay makes this game what it is. First the single player. It is a long 
 game with large levels. Its not just the size but the destructable objects. You can blow up cars, 
 trash slot machines! When you blow up cars it could hit a person and send him flying with RAGDOLL 
 phyiscs! Usually 1nce per level you have swird fights with a great control scheme. YOU CAN ALSO 
 FREEZE TIME!! Multiplayer is fun. You get 4 levels and 4 different game rypes. You can have up 
 tp 4 people playing at once.
  
  Graphics 9/10 - For one of the oldest WII games the graphics are nice. The explosions look kool 
 and every thing has good detail. Tje faces are kinda flat looking.
  
  Controls 7.5/10 - The single player controls are good but the nultiplayer ones are repetitve. Basicly 
 every thing is flick nunchuk down.
  
  Sound 8.5/10 - The music is intence. The guns and explosions sound nice. And the talking is not 
 rough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ceadre
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 29, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Let me start this review off with a personal opinion: it's good, but at times, sucks. There are 
 3 chapters total with multiple sections in them (I cant remember how many in each off the top of 
 my head) , each with varying difficulties. One minute, you'll be killing guys without even getting 
 hit, but next level, it could be just as easy, or seeming difficult. An example is one part of 
 the "Extreme Wheels Garage" level. When your going through the car wash cycle, you can duck in 
 the back of the truck, but if theres a guy you couldn't get to in the window and forget to get 
 later, ducking wont help. I think FPS' work great with the Wii, but Gamespot's video review is 
 right about one thing, it does seem like production-to-DVD movie. But I do think you should at 
 least try this game. Anymore, stuff is more about opinions than facts, and who knows, this could 
 be the game for you. But beware, every time you die on this game, it just frustrates you to the 
 point that you want to destroy your tv with your Wii remote, cause usually, it's easy, and dying 
 on here is rare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobain112
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  .Good variety of sword - sword combat and gun - gun fights.
  .All the enviroment is destructable which gives gun fights excellent atmosphere with pieces of 
 walls flying above your head as your taking cover.
  .Using the wii mote as a gun is so next gen, and makes you feel "in the game"
  The Bad:
  .Clunky 
 camera which takes alot of getting used to.
  .Some of the things your enemies shout at you during gunfights are just 'stupid (example: Come out 
 you moron!) Save trash talking for later eh guys?
  
  Red Steel was the first Shoot 'em up/action game to be released on the wii, and did a stunning 
 job of it! 
  Game critics rate it below 6/10! It deserves an editors choice of 9.0/10 in my opinion.
  Graphics: Beautiful 
 - lovely destructable enviroments.
  Sound: Lots of nice explosions, and gunshots
  Controls: Takes alot of getting used to but is okay.
  I definitely reccomend you buy this game 
 EVERY wii owner should own this!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: baker94
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 24, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  Red steel is the first modern first-person shooter that i played on the wii. 
  Red steel is a very good game but there was a lot more potential for this game. The graphics look 
 nice and there are plenty of missions to undertake and a nice storyline. However the Ai system 
 that the game has lets it down a lot, the movement of the enemy can become very predictable and 
 the aiming system which i think personally is quite good can let you down. 
  The sword fighting which i think is engineered very well is one of the good aspects, however when 
 these sword-fights are included they can be put in the completley wrong place. The fights are regularly 
 chucked into the middle of the shooting as mentioned by the people at gamespot. 
  The controls are not bad but not particularly great either. The nunchuck movements up and down 
 are good for the grenade throwing however the zooming technique for the sniper rifle is interesting 
 but annoying. Sound-wise the noises that regurlarly come out of the wii remote are a pain i think; 
 whereas certain times the sound fits but the novelty wears off and the sound becomes annoying. 
 I think the graphics aren't bad but are put to shame by many other games. 
  The gameplay is interesting but how some of the scenes are strung together with the awful dialogue 
 brings a down point for this game.
  Overall i dont think that this is a big must-have game but you do get plenty for your money and 
 is worth playing, i think that gamespot were a bit harsh towards the game and that it's not that 
 bad.
  
  Graphics = 7
  sound = 7
  gameplay = 8
  lifespan = 6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matty_sen
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel, i tried to play it when i first got it on the Christmas of 2006, since i spend over 
 five-hundred English pounds geting it in a bundle with my Wii,
  i remember how cool it looked from the adverts then started a new game, the comic book cut scene 
 at the start got me eager to go, i started to go my first thought was it was far too sensitive 
 so i turned it down to low, still far too sensitive.
  I thought this is probably because i am to exited to aim (because i just got all my new presents 
 for Christmas, i come back to it a day later, it the same.
  One year later.....
  
  I come back to the **** titled "Red Steel".
  the graphics are so dated now and feel like an old 
 ps2 game from its launch, but has a nice gritty flair to it witch goes with the theme well.
  it is mainly the character models and facial details and the hand movement of your character makes 
 it look like he is spastic! I haven't seen any bugs so far so i think its not so glitchy (at lest 
 on the PAL version of the game)
  the shooting can be fun, it does feel pretty yakuza style with you knocking over tables etc. For 
 cover.
  
  The AI is really crappy if enemies flood in like another one comes in as soon as one dies it goes 
 to the same spot the last enime was! after a while you just know were they all are without looking 
 and there accuracy is really bad too if your right in front of them they still might miss!
  
  The worst part of all though is the controls which ruins the game completely, the way you turn 
 is bringing the ridicule off screen then bringing it back on in time before you spin out of control 
 and if you bring it back on you can easily miss the screen and fly off the other side of the screen 
 and its far to sensitive even on low, the sword fighting can be fun but lacks variety.
  The audio is fine, voice acting is mediocre but the shooting FX is enjoyable
  that's my review 
 on Red Steel!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheese5000
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel is a great game, I like it a lot, but it wasn't put up to it's full potential. the graphics 
 are great, lots of missions, gameplay is great, controls aren't an issue (in my opinion at least) , 
 but sometimes it's so challenging its just not even fun. There's a good variety of guns, interesting 
 story-line, but the controls menu freezes the wii. Nice cut-scene art, awesome destructible environments, 
 something of a free-roam feature, but multiplayer is not fun at all. 
  
  If you're checking out this game, I advise you to rent it first. I like this game a lot, but some 
 people might not. It's really challenging, I'll tell you that, it takes a lot of patience to beat 
 it. also, for me, I loved it when I first played it the night I got it, but then it kinda got boring, 
 then I came back to it again, and liked it, then It got boring again, and so on until I came back 
 to it this time and I wrote this review. it's always fun to start a new file and beat it again 
 from the start. So if you're looking at this game going 'hmm, hmmm? hmm.' rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: domo_sakabato
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  Red Steel has it's problems, yes. But when it comes right down to game-play, this game excels. 
 If you love FPS, then this game will make you feel right at home. Using the Wii's sensitive controls, 
 you REALLY have to aim to get the kill. 
  
  The only big issue that I had with the game is that when you finish multiple checkpoints, but don't 
 finish the mission, and you quit, you must start all the way back from the beginning of a mission 
 when you decide to play again.
  
  The gun-play is awesome and so are the sword-fights. 
  
  I think as long as you love FPS and you have a soul, you will like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: illkillyou
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Like a visit to the doctor, sometimes a game deserves a second opinion when its first reviewer 
 has an extreme opinion about it.
  
  I feel like this is the case with Red Steel. Ever faithful to the folks at Gamespot I was a bit 
 dismayed at how vicious their review of Red Steel was. It is, after all, one of the first Wii games 
 to hit shelves and a foray into new territory for video game consoles (essentially a rail-shooter 
 derailed) . 
  
  I find it's sort of interesting how a review can put a negative spin on one aspect of one game, 
 and put a positive spin on the same aspect of a different game. Here in Gamespot's Red Steel review, 
 the critic comments that the main character "never speaks, and has no personality". But go back 
 and read reviews of Half-Life when it came out and people were saying "the character never speaks, 
 making you feel like it's really you out there". 
  
  Red Steel does follow a pretty canned premise and doesn't break away from any FPS molds. In fact, 
 the gameplay is probably a step back in time to the shooters of old, with mission objectives more 
 reminiscent of Golden Eye than the rather more complex adventures out there nowadays. Most objectives 
 boil down to key hunts, "get to the chopper!", and destroying electronics. 
  
  However, Red Steel deserves a lot of credit. Despite its "classic" feel, Red Steel is incredibly 
 fun, and standing up and playing with the Wiimote and Nunchuck in hand feels awesome and really 
 immersive.
  
  Yes, it feels clunky in comparison to a PC shooter, but to me it's lightyears ahead of "classic 
 controller" console FPS games. 
  
  Gamespot's critic complains that the environments are bland and uninspired, but I have to disagree. 
 I picked up this game to take me back to the days I used to live in Tokyo... only this time, I 
 get to destroy it. It does a great job of capturing the feeling of a Japanese city, which is exactly 
 what I wanted it to do. I don't think anyone is going to buy this game with expectations that they'll 
 be fighting in caves, jungles, or WW2 battlefields. 
  
  Another negative point for the Gamespot crew was that the game doesn't allow you to bring a gun 
 to a knife fight. This is not inexplicable, as the Gamespot review alludes to. It is very much 
 a nod to the mystique of the Japanese system of honor. Scott, the main character, chooses to abide 
 by the Japanese laws of an honorable battle, and as long as the guy challenging you to the sword 
 fight isn't pulling any punches, why should you? Sure, things have changed a bit in Japan these 
 days, but I like to think this game wants to give us an idealized, 80's-movie, "isn't the far east 
 mysterious?" kind of vibe and I like it. 
  
  But there are quirks. If the game truly does want to abide by those systems of honor, killing your 
 defeated sword-fight opponent, rather than letting him live, should net you respect. Also, for 
 once, in Red Steel we see a game that suffers from poor English (or French?) to Japanese translation, 
 rather than vice-versa. When something startling occurs, Japanese characters blurt out expressions 
 in formal Japanese, when casual would have been a much more natural response. Also, some of the 
 hardened killers you'll go up against speak a feminine form of Japanese. 
  
  Problems aside, this is a respectable first try at FPS mechanics for the wii and the game is, simply 
 put, a blast to play- simple mechanics, dated gameplay philosphies and all. When I purchased this 
 game I wanted a run-and-gun through the streets of Japan, nonstop fighting type of game. I wasn't 
 expecting "defuse the bomb!", or "hit this button sequence to jump over that barrel!" gameplay 
 sequences that critics love these days. I wanted guts and glory gunbattles utilizing the novel 
 Wii controls, and that's exactly what Red Steel delivers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musica12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  I got Red Steel almost immediately after I got my Wii in January, and I love it. I like the way 
 its more realistic, like when you're holding a gun, you can actually rotate it. The levels are 
 intense and suspenseful, especially when its really quiet. The only thing I wish to change is the 
 level lengths. Maybe I just suck, but I spent an hour on one of the levels, which I heard was only 
 supposed to take 25 minutes. Anyways, I think its massively under rated. 5.5? Mediocre? Thats highly 
 exaggerated. I suggest ignoring the rating and play it anyways. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaifrecap
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 30, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  Its Worth playing but rent it first. It uses the wiimotes motions pretty good with a few glitches, 
 although its plain fun, levels are too long and you cant save in the middle of one. Its Worth playing 
 but rent it first. It uses the wiimotes motions pretty good with a few glitches, although its plain 
 fun, levels are too long and you cant save in the middle of one. Its Worth playing but rent it first. 
 It uses the wiimotes motions pretty good with a few glitches, although its plain fun, levels are 
 too long and you cant save in the middle of one. Its Worth playing but rent it first. It uses the 
 wiimotes motions pretty good with a few glitches, although its plain fun, levels are too long and 
 you cant save in the middle of one. Its Worth playing but rent it first. It uses the wiimotes motions 
 pretty good with a few glitches, although its plain fun, levels are too long and you cant save 
 in the middle of one. Its Worth playing but rent it first. It uses the wiimotes motions pretty good 
 with a few glitches, although its plain fun, levels are too long and you cant save in the middle 
 of one. Its Worth playing but rent it first. It uses the wiimotes motions pretty good with a few 
 glitches, although its plain fun, levels are too long and you cant save in the middle of one. Its 
 Worth playing but rent it first. It uses the wiimotes motions pretty good with a few glitches, 
 although its plain fun, levels are too long and you cant save in the middle of one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John-08
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  Graphics - 7.5/10
  'Good But Some Errors'
  
  Ok. The detail on da weapons ,imo, looks great and same for the characters and enemies. There are 
 somtimes glitches in the games' engine which can get annoying and the character lip-sinking is 
 plain awful but to me the little things dont matter and the game makes up for it in more than one 
 way.
  
  Gameplay - 9.5/10
  'Keeps me playing for hours until my battery runs out :D'
  
  I Dont think it deserves the bad GS reviews - its just too fun :) although i don't care about 
 the little errors its the little GOOD things in this game make it what it is. The way when you 
 turn the wii remote and the gun turns with it ,the special effects eg slowing down time and the 
 game lets you tag your targets with bullets and when it goes back to real-life time you see them 
 get taken out before they get chance to shoot at you, classic, And lets not forget the variety of 
 challenging missions and the unlockable moves and abilites. But lets move on to the more pressing 
 issue - the swordplay ,how is it ? well it has its good and bad points , Well for starters its 
 just fun slashing up enemies and trying to break their swords by dodging and parrying :D BUT it 
 is somtimes slow and buggy - its like the game cant process the moves fast enough so it jumps which 
 is really annoying at low health also you cant just pull out your sword at anytime and go savage 
 lol, You can only do it at selected moments in the game. But maybe ubisoft will change that in Red 
 Steel 2?
  
  Overall - 8.5/10
  'Awsome'
  
  I dont care what others say, everyone has their opinion, but in mine, if you are one of those gamers 
 who dont mind the occasional glitch in a game and just play it because its fun - then buy this! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiixx3
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel is very interesting. It could have been one of the best fps on the wii with its hype 
 made by nintendo, but its just plain flat out sucks hardcore. The controls are horrible. Controlling 
 the guns and grenades is insane. Who wants to keep throwing their nunchuk to throw a grenade. No 
 one that I know wants to do that. The graphics are medium. At least you can tell that they're people. 
 The game isn't that bad though. You can at least control with some peace in your mind. You don't 
 have to go insane out of just controlling your character. The "controlling of the guns" is supposed 
 to make you insane. All I'm saying is this game doesn't fuffil your dream of a good fps, but actually 
 makes it into a nightmare. People who likes the game can play it all they want, but for the rest 
 of the people don't play this GAME!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kunphyuzed
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 22, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  I might as well get right into it.
  You're girlfriend is a daughter of a Japanese drug gang thing, she's kidnapped, you're off to the 
 rescue. Big whoop. Basically an excuse to shoot gangsters.
  The graphics look decent, good for a launch title on the Wii, but there are times where you just 
 think "GOD that looks weird!" There are many bugs, like one time I shot somebody and his body went 
 into those "T" formations, and I had to walk up to him and melee.
  The controls are okay, you point and shoot, use the nunchuck to pick up stuff and reload, and the 
 Wii remote to zoom in. Now to do this, you have to press the "A" button and thrust it forward. 
 It's a good idea, but you'll lose sight of the enemy you're aiming at and with guns like the sniper 
 rifle you'll really be lost. Your arms will soon get tired from doing this. Aiming in general is 
 pretty sensitive, and is kinda disorienting. Sword fighting is delayed, but you'll get used to 
 it. It really takes just a certain pattern to defeat a enemy in fights.
  The levels are set out with missions, like go find some person or get the f*ck outta where you 
 are. Sometimes I get lost since theres a little backtracking or where you need to go is in the 
 deepest corner of the furthest room. Sometimes I dunno how to even work a switch.
  Theres a good assortment of weapons with cool looking explosions and semi-destructible environments. 
 The sounds of guns and bullets ricocheting off walls sound good. Music is fine, sometimes cool. 
 Voice acting is humorously bad, but there are some times where it's funny both because it's humorous 
 and it's bad. For example, one time I was attacking this gangster, and he said "Damn, I'm getting 
 too old for this crap." Heh...
  The AI kinda sucks. When you crouch down beneath a wall or something an enemy will say "Where the 
 hell did he go?!" Well, duh, I just went behind the wall. They'll also just seem to fire in your 
 general direction, so you'll be peppered to death.
  One more thing I don't like about this is the unrealistic guns, in terms of firing. You can hit 
 someone with a shotgun from ACROSS A ROOM. No I'm not talking a lucky piece of buckshot hitting 
 the head, aim and fire and you'll hit them from fifty yards away, no joke. Therefore I think the 
 shotgun is basically the best gun in the game, and the only thing you'll be worried about with 
 it is running out of ammo. Either that, or the enemies are about as strong as a cardboard cut-out.
 
  I only played about 15% into the game since I rented it and I think theres these new abilities 
 that I wouldn't really care about anyway. Multiplayer is kinda useless, there are not many options.
 
  
  Pros: Since it's been a year it's probably in your bargain bin.
  Functional controls, but zooming gets tiring.
  Decent visuals, explosions look nice.
  Semi-destructible 
 environments.
  Good sound effects and music.
  
  Cons: Bad multilayer.
  Some models look chunky and some textures are re-used and bland.
  Stupid story. Stupid single 
 player in general.
  Delayed control for sword.
  Cross hair is pretty sensitive.
  AI sucks and enemies are weak.
  Weird level layouts.
  Shotgun hails over all.
  Pretty easy 
 game in spite of controls being sensitive.
  
  Bottom line, since it's been a year get it because it's probably cheap. It's a sub-par game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoradude
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 22, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Ever want to star in a blockbuster action movie, but no luck? Well, if that happens to be your 
 deepest secret Red Steel is here to fulfill it. Everything from racial stereotypes, revenge, and 
 a whole lot of gunplay makes its home here. Of course an action movie in the disguise of a game 
 can not sell itself alone in today's market which is why you will find this title on the Nintendo 
 Wii. You'll flip over tables and throw grenades by shaking the nunchuck forward and back, use the 
 Wii remote as a sword hilt to slash at foes with, and so on. Of course though, Red Steel also has 
 the one thing all first-person shooters have - a lot shooting.
  
  Which is nice as the game takes place in Los Angeles and Tokyo, two great hotspots for violence 
 and gangs. You play as Scott Monroe, who is in Los Angeles with his Japanese fiance, Miyu, to meet 
 her father. Nothing turns out right though as some thugs take her hostage and attempt to murder 
 her father, who turns out to be the leader of a well known gang back in Tokyo. Like any brave and 
 heroic boyfriend Scott doesn't take smart actions such as waiting for cops, no, he decides to take 
 on all the thugs alone and win back his girlfriend. This is essentially the whole premise to Red 
 Steel and is told through a hefty amount of still images illustrated in a very graphic novel style. 
 While a few CG cut scenes would have been nice to seen these images are certainly nothing to scoff 
 at.
  
  Overall the story is simplistic and focuses on themes such as revenge, love, and honor. But like 
 all action films you will not want to play this game for some deep story, you will play for the 
 nonstop violence and those edge of your seat, sweaty palm moments. Fortunately for you, the game 
 delivers all of this pretty well as there are no puzzles aside from the typical unlock this door 
 or go to a control room and push this button. Specific surroundings in the game look so out of 
 place such as crates in the middle of a busy Tokyo street that are placed for seemingly no other 
 purpose than to dodge oncoming bullets. The whole game is built from the ground up with nonstop 
 gun shooting and sword fighting in mind; you will rarely find rooms through the games eight hour 
 main story not overstocked with enemies. Even the many times you are forced into backtracking through 
 specific locations new enemies will emerge for their chance to put a bullet through Scott.
  
  While all this nonstop action that Red Steel features may sound promising, there is one nasty 
 flaw holding it back; the game only features one type of foe, dumb ones. Often time's enemies will 
 lean to the side of a flipped table to empty a round of lead, then immediately stand up, exposing 
 most of their body just to reload a gun. Other times they will run all the way across a room in 
 open sight, just within inches of Scott himself, to take cover from the bullets you will end up 
 murdering him with as he makes the dash. This is not a rarity either, while the enemy models gradually 
 change from black men, to Japanese men, and eventually ninjas each and every enemy acts this same 
 way doing things no real human stuck in the middle of a fire fight would even think of doing.
 
  
  Speaking of character models, Red Steel has some ugly ones. Friends and foes alike all resemble 
 those cheap plastic dolls that barely move, even striking very unrealistic poses from time to time 
 when they die. Thankfully though, this is not any indication for the rest of the game. While some 
 textures look downright awful and overall the graphics are not what they could be the games art 
 style outweighs all of this by a long shot. The amount of lighting used is fairly unique when compared 
 to other games, it reflects through everything from windows to tree branches, beaming to the ground 
 and looks wonderful. Aside from that you will also see a large difference within the games two 
 locations, Los Angeles and Tokyo. L. A. resembles what you would expect it to be, dirty vacant lots 
 with old cars scattered around, a few palm trees here and there. Tokyo on the other hand is much 
 more clean and refined, with typical Japanese architecture accounting for the locals. It all looks 
 so breath taking and is probably one of the best memorable traits of the game.
  
  Still, everything mentioned above good and bad is nothing new to games, FPSes in particular so 
 what is the big draw in for Red Steel? Motion sensor controls of course. Being the first of its 
 kind on the Nintendo Wii, Red Steel had a lot of expectations to meet. Overall it has its ups and 
 downs but is still playable by all means. Just looking at the Wii remote you can make a good guess 
 as to how the gunplay fleshes out and you would probably be pretty close to your assumption. You 
 simply aim with the remote and use the B button to mow down the many enemies you come across. If 
 any get particularly close to you a simple wag of the nunchuck will instantly kill them through 
 the use of a sword guard Scott carries with him. There is also a stiff lock on mechanic that you 
 will find yourself resorting to early on but once you get a handle of the controls you will stop 
 for the more natural feel of aiming where you please.
  
  The other meat of gameplay comes from sword fighting. You will encounter quite a few of these through 
 the game, unfortunately they are frustrating to no end. Gunplay alone almost nails the motion controls 
 concept, everything feels fluid and easy to use, sword fighting though is so unresponsive and confusing. 
 The tutorial teaching you the basics misses a few things, for example which way to hold the Wii 
 remote. Must it be held a specific way to slash horizontally or vertically? While that may sound 
 like a confusing claim the game assumes you know to hold the A button close to your body, or towards 
 the ground. In reality though, you have no idea without trial and error. 
  
  To make matters worse once you get the basics down the game introduces special sword skills you 
 can perform by swinging your arms around in a specific pattern. These are ridiculously unresponsive 
 and some require impossible movements. The first thought that comes rushing back is a skill requiring 
 you to swing down twice. Unless you're standing up to play the game (which most people are probably 
 not) after moving your arm downward enough for the first swing to register you probably won't be 
 able to lower it anymore for the second, meaning you need to lift it up a fair amount to hack down 
 a second time. This abruptly ends the progressing skill though, and may leave you open to enemy 
 attacks. Fortunately you won't find yourself in dire need of using many of the sword abilities 
 since most enemies follow a very simplistic attack pattern. Once you dodge or block a cycle of 
 their attacks you will be able to bring them down fairly quick with enough normal hits.
  
  As mentioned near the start of this review, honor plays a large part in the story and follows over 
 into gunplay and sword fights. After defeating an opponent in a sword fight you will be given the 
 option to let them live or die. A quick pull of the nunchuck back grants them another day of life 
 while slashing the Wii remote forward ends their existence. As cool as this may sound it is unfortunately 
 wasted potential since every enemy you fight save two or three are mindless goons you have never 
 met. However, those few key characters you do build a bond with can pull the emotionally strings 
 quite well when begging for their life after a defeat.
  
  Aside from the sword fights there is another way to honorably spare lives, this time through gun 
 fights. Roughly halfway through the game you obtain a technique that allows time to be stopped 
 for a few brief seconds where you can point out multiple attacks on enemies. After plotting these 
 points Scott shoots away in real time firing exactly where you marked. The trick is though, aiming 
 at the opponents hand and firing once will force them to drop their weapon and surrender in defeat, 
 earning you respect points. Respect points are nothing more than a currency used to unlock new 
 guns and sword skills in between missions, but with the lack of actually needing these upgrades 
 to finish the game makes honorably disarming enemies a cop out for an easy victory since it only 
 takes one bullet.
  
  Red Steel is not the best game, or even first-person shooter ever made but on the other hand it 
 is not the worst either. Gunplay is satisfying and the whole style of art and story really make 
 you feel as if you are the leading actor of a Hollywood summer film. While the sword fighting controls 
 are horrific it does not break the game thanks to dumb enemy AI. There is also a multi-player component 
 but the lack of modes and online support almost make it un-noteworthy. Red Steel may not warrant 
 a "go buy now" despite its current deal of $25 American, but it is certainly worth a rent if you 
 are looking for a short Wii FPS that you can complete in a weekend of playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamersAbyss
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Many underappriciated games truly are underappriciated because they're a pile of crap, but this 
 one proves all haters wrong when Ubisoft game up with a very innovative game for the Wii called 
 Red Steel! I recently went over to my freinds house to fight him in a couple of rounds, and to 
 my surprise, the Wii controls for this game are not hard at all! Graphics are not a problem nor 
 is the storyline. The enemy AI can be a bit dumb at times, while they just stand there doing nothing, 
 almost as if they want to die. All of the pieces in the puzzle fit together if your looking for 
 a game to spice up your collection, and this game definently belongs there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manicfoot
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel tried to do too much. It is the first of its kind - the first FPS to utilize the Wiimote 
 not only for shooting, but for sword fighting as well. I give Ubisoft credit for at least trying 
 to do something original, but ultimately Red Steel is the most inconsistantly good game I have 
 ever played.
  
  All you need to know is that the character you play (called Scott) is going out with a 'serious 
 eurasian hottie' who's father happens to be a mobster. She gets kidnapped by a rival gang, and 
 you're forced to grab a gun and rescue her. Amongst all this there's the cliche 'man must fight 
 with honour' ethic you see in pretty much any Japanese Samurai movie.
  
  The game controls pretty well for the most part, though it may feel very unnatrual for the first 
 20 minutes or so but once you get used to the odd turning and sensitivity issues you shouldn't 
 have much of a problem. Ubisoft did fall into the trap of using motion controls when they're not 
 really neccesary - you will move the Wiimote towards the screen to zoom in on enemies with the 
 sniper rifle (which is kind of broken) and use the nunchuck to throw grenades (which actually feels 
 awesome when you pull it off) . Again, inconsistancy is Red Steel.
  
  What is more annoying is that they leave out the motion controls you probably imagined when you 
 first heard about the game - 1:1 sword fighting. Instead, you have this cop-out system of slashing 
 up, down, left, right, diagonally etc. It doesn't really feed good and the moves you learn later 
 on in the game are overly complicated and hardly ever register. The sword fights are awkwardly 
 put into the game usually after you've cleared a room full of enemies. On one hand they're a nice 
 break from all the shooting but on the other you're always thinking "why can't I just shoot his 
 face off with a shotgun?" Again, inconsistancy.
  
  However, nothing is more inconsistant than the visuals. At the start of the game, they look pretty 
 bad with mediocre character visuals whose lips don't even move when they speak and bland wall textures. 
 But as you get further into the game you'll see nice reflections, insanely bright explosions and 
 lush environments... And then you'll walk through a corridor with a horrible, muddy N64 quality 
 texture smeared across it. It is highly evident that this was a rushed game. It really is a shame 
 because Red Steel has a lot of potential...
  
  What the game does have is atmosphere and this weird sense of charm. I grew up in the 90's and 
 loved playing arcade games with bad voice acting and enemies that all looked the same. Red Steel 
 has both. You'll find enemies saying stuff that doesn't quite make sense in context (like a gangster 
 yelling KILLER at you or saying "I lost him" when you're standing right next to him) and this just 
 makes me feel nostalgic.
  
  Ultimately, red steel tried to do too much in too little time and it won't age well. There are 
 far more better FPS'ses on Wii with tighter motion controls and prettier visuals. However, if you 
 like games that are so bad they're good then give Red Steel a rent. It is top quality cheesy game 
 goodness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unbiasgamer
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  
  Alright, so, every one was excited for Red Steel when it came out for the Wii. Well, it sucks.
 
  
  So, the story, no comment. The gameplay, is decent, but the controls are akward and buggy. Even 
 with the sensitivity settings, you'll probably never get it to feel right. The sword fights, are 
 really just annoying and with make you go mad, not to mention, they happen way to often. The main 
 problem is the controls, especially pushing your Wiimote forward to zoom in. This almost always 
 disorients your aim and causes you to look at the ground or ceiling.
  
  The graphics and sound are actually nice. The weapons are great too fire and they sound nice. This 
 is one of the better looking wii titles.
  
  Although there are some redeeming qualities, 
  
  THIS GAME = FAILURE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -shmelo-
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel, being the first in the line of Wii games on day one, one of the first games I got for 
 my Wii when I got it day one. After that confusing sentance let me say this, it is not a good idea 
 to get games for a brand new console that came out the day the console did. The developers have 
 new technology they are not familiar with and if they want their game out on day one, they tend 
 to rush it.
  
  Red Steel is a half-arsed attempt at making a Japanese-American gangster style shooter with some 
 sword fighting. All the basic formulas for Red Steel, are done terribly. 
  
  You are a body guard, who just happens to have a rich girl friend whom you protect. She gets kidnapped, 
 you try to save her by killing as many people as you possibly can. Why call the police? Thats the 
 whole story, now the developers added filler content to make up for time, big mistake. Story gets 
 boring after repetition of doing repetitive levels that are no different than the last.
  
  There is a point in the game where you have like 3 choices of levels to take, so it gives you one 
 option, but either way you do all levels and there is no perks to any of them.
  
  The graphics look like the game cube's graphics, and not a next generation console. The guns don't 
 look too bad, but each level is the same hallways and minor outdoor areas. The textures (or lack 
 there of) are plain coloured walls, hardly any design to the buildings, which I thought gangsters 
 loved fancy places. 
  
  The game play is actually the worst part of the game. The Wii's motion controls are very hard to 
 make a game with, because your either going to be doing the same movements as every other game, 
 or your controls won't work. Red Steel does both, or every other game just copied Red Steel... 
 which is a bad thing. You point the Wii remote at the screen and shoot, which is not too bad, but 
 when zooming in with a sniper you have to move your whole arm in so close to the TV your almost 
 through the screen. Last I heard, Snipers don't move closer to their target to zoom in... 
  
  A main problem with shooting though is that there is no glitch detection when you are pointing 
 the remote away from the screen. Many occasions your gun will start flipping out, and twitching 
 everywhere, which during intense gun fighting (which is rare) is a pain.
  
  One of the main features of this game are the sword fights, also the worst feature. The battles 
 are forced at you, at the most irrelevant points in the game where your just like, "hmm I've got 
 2 minutes to escape, so why don't I shoot you?". You can not just choose to whip out your sword 
 and hack through everyone, plus during the battles there are stupid intervals of the enemy backing 
 away and stalling. Not only that, but if you just shake the Wii remote left to right vigorously 
 for the duration of the fight, you win. 
  
  The voice acting is mediocre along with the artwork cut-scenes which have become very popular these 
 days rather than real cut-scenes. Although with the lack of upgraded graphics on the Wii, whats 
 the point? The guns sound good actually, and there is a good variety. Reloading sound fx sound 
 kind of bad though, they sound like your playing a video game...
  
  Red Steel is one of those games that gives the console it is on, a bad name. Do not rent Red Steel. 
 Do not buy Red Steel, if you have it, take it back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: borvis2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  very good multiplayer i love that game that's my opinion please tell me how you can hate this game 
 i love sword fighting i this game it feels like i'm actually sword fighting someone lets start 
 about multiplayer it's priceless i love trying new stages they are sometimes confusing sometimes 
 they are fun but too bad there are only 4 stages though i really like how sometimes it's hard to 
 beat sometimes it's easy to beat it's pretty long come on it's not short the multiplayer is the 
 best thing about it though you should pick it up if you think your like me i mean that game suits 
 me somehow i don't know how really 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tdlo123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  first of all I'd like to say that this is a great game, there was nothing wrong
  with the controls and I didn't have any trouble at all playing it... but the problem is with these 
 idiots who keep saying that the pointer disappears and its hard to control the cursor and it bounces 
 out .. etc....
  well its not the game's problem, its just that they can't play! so DON'T BELIEVE THEM ! if you think 
 you can play it so buy it!.... you won't regret it!
  
  well... the graphics weren't great... but they were good enough.
  and the voice acting... well... they 
 were bad.... but not all of them...
  
  the sword fighting wasn't bad.... but it could have been better... much better!
  
  so overall 
 its a good fun game... I didn't think I would enjoy it but I did... and you will too!
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malachi_27
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel isn't a bad game, it's just a very modern First Person Shooter. It brings nothing new 
 to the genre. There is this one thing though that allows you to have unlimited ammo for a short 
 time -- but there is nothing that special
  Graphics are really not that good, they're not next-generation at all. They are not horrible, just 
 Gamecube-ish.
  If you own Metroid Prime 3: Corruption, then don't get this game because it is no where near as 
 good. If you just want a regular FPS, get this. If you want cool war shooters, get Call of Duty 
 or Medal of Honor ( not Vanguard) . I do recommend Red Steel, however, don't expect it to blow you 
 away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B1kmatt
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  You may have read all the reviews that most of the game magazines and websites have given this 
 game, but I think that they may have expected too much out of this game. This was a great first 
 shot at a FPS on the Wii seeing as thought it is one of the first to take a crack at the Wii's 
 remote. I played this game and it was fun especially in the multiplayer mode which will probably 
 be one of the only reason to keep playing after you beat the game. I feel that if Ubisoft made 
 a sequel to this and got rid of most of the bugs that it has and maybe added in an online multiplayer 
 than this could turn out to be a really great game idea. My opinion is that if you like FPS than 
 you should give this a try, but if you are not sure I would suggest that you rent it first and 
 buy a used copy if possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bauerpower324
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  This is defindently not a 5.5 game, this is at least a 7 or 8. I don't know what gamespot was thinking 
 but this is not what i expected this game to be rated. It is a lot better then they say it is. 
 The graphics, yea they could use some work, but it's a launch title, so what do u expect. The value 
 of the game, well, after a year the price has gone from $50 to $30 and used it's even $25, i think 
 it was worth $30, but not $50. Gameplay, a little slopy, with some glitches, but all the enemy's 
 are as stupid as Kim on the show 24, so it is fun to shoot them. And it is one of the only shotters 
 out right now with a multiplayer deathmatch, so this is a good game overall. Don't listen to the 
 5.5, listen to the 7.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: W8I8Z
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 1, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  OK lets get this straight.. this is not the best first person game around but it's not all that 
 bad. Lets get started with the basics:
  
  You play as Scott an American man who is engaged to be married to a japanese woman who's father 
 has ties to the Yakusa. Of course things go horribly wrong as she is kidnapped by rivals gangs. 
 Of course as a trained man in law enforcement you must go save her. Your travels bring you all 
 the way to Japan. The view is first person and 75% of it is shooting with various guns. The other 
 25% is actual sword fighting in one on one battles. One bonus is that you can carry up to 2 different 
 types of guns along with a sword and tanto. The battle sequences can be very intense and you are 
 constantly overrun by enemies. Hiding and constant moving will be life savers. Another good thing 
 is that your health bar will regenerate if you find a nice hiding spot so there is no need to go 
 searching for health while fighitng enemies. You can find some body armor laying around on most 
 levels so your not completely helpless. There are also some levels that will have you scratching 
 your head as you have to go through city streets and fun houses.
  
  The graphics arent that great and the cut scenese are more drawn cartoons that movie sequences 
 but that didn't bother me at all. The remote response was highly accurate and I found that switching 
 between weapons along with tageting enemies was a breeze. Its a nice start to the Wii first person 
 gaming but I hope they improve with future additions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sebetai
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  this is the first shooting game i have that you can't just pull your sword out. it's awesome and 
 i play for hours. shooting is fun with he wiimote since i can aim myself. it's no fun trying to 
 use the control sick to get your target. that's where red steel comes in. great guns, sniper rifles 
 my favorite. sword fights re cool. it's challenging to quickly counter or move. i like the story 
 and respect points idea. i'm level five right now and just did the geisha rescue quest. that had 
 the hardest boss i've fought yet. i love when i get ambushed and have shoot at hordes of opponents. 
 it's awesome, to say the least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt_dangelo
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 20, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  well red steel was an utter disaster on ubisoft and nintendos part. aswe cna see ubisoft was one 
 of thefirst but not the only devs to have trouble building a FPS on the wii ocntrol scheme.... i 
 mean it is hard.. and even in metroid prime the system has to auto aim.. making the game easier... but 
 still fun of course... red steel has no lock on and the wii remote is too sensitive for my tastes.. and 
 many people have complained about the difficult controls.... it was supposed to have a multiplayer 
 online.. but since the wii has virtually no internet gaming... lol it was dumped.... the game proforms 
 bad.. the ai is dumb... the graphics are mediocre, and the controls are jsut as bad and actually 
 worsethen Ps3's LAIR.... and who thought that was possible :) i mean wow.... they blew it bigtime 
 with that... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZendeBeGoor
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  1 word AWESOME its a great fps game for the wii and i dont know what the hell gamespot was thinking... sword 
 play is the best part and the voice acting doesn't bother me at all.. i had a great time playing 
 this and i hope more fps games come out for the wii and hopefully some will have online play : 
 ) .. the story line is pretty good too and the action is really decent... i have only seen 1 bug 
 and that was i was fighting with 4 guys and i went around some boxes and came out the other side 
 and 1 guy was still looking at my old position and just standing still so i zoomed on his head 
 and BOOM HEADSHOt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_sageX
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  Red Steel for the Wii was really more of a test subject than an actual game. While the plot and 
 game play arent really that interesting it does manage to show off some the power of the Wii.
 
  
  Story: Basically you are this guy named Scott and you have this girlfriend (Who I forgot her name) 
 that wanted to introduce you to her father before getting serious about their relationship. They 
 meet up and every thing but they are suddenly attacked by some Japanese mobs and your goal is to 
 basically escape from the building.
  
  Game design: The games plot is nothing out of the ordinary, just another of those lame Japanese 
 mafia themes.
  At the beginning of the game you will basically be going through this tour on how to use the Wii 
 controls.
  Graphically the game isnt so next-gen but it is pretty detailed though and you shouldnt really 
 have any problems with it.
  The game is also very linier and there are hardly any hard puzzles to solve, just basically going 
 from one room to the other, shooting enemies along the way.
  
  Game play: The game will basically be in first person from start to end. With the Wii controls 
 you can perform actions, from opening doors to flipping tables.
  You will be using guns, which controls as you would expect, pointing at the screen for aiming and 
 B for shooting while using the nunchuk to move.
  Another action (which was supposed to really show the power of the Wii) is the use of a sword. 
 You cannot draw a sword anytime you want, it will be drawn at certain places where you go on one 
 on one duels. You can block, swing, dodge and parry but it doesnt really work the way you want 
 it to and isnt really all that exciting.
  
  Sound: The voice casts are pretty mediocre with Japanese accents English and the music is OK.
 
  
  The game promised to bring a new revolutionary way of playing; however the game really down grades 
 the Wii than giving it a good reputation. While the Wii controls do work they dont exactly follow 
 your motion (For example swinging the sword right will sometimes do a vertical cut) . Also the story 
 isnt really engaging and there is not much replay value. The game is just basically a technical 
 demo for the Wii, while the controls are fine and are very responsive (Unlike Eye Toy and other 
 peripherals) the game itself is just a very mediocre first person game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darnydb
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 18, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Glad I didn't actually look forward to this or spend money on it. It's Far too glitchy to be worth 
 my hard earned money.
  
  I feel like i'm playing a poorly designed flash game on a cheesy website with a wireless mouse 
 that's out of batteries. Couldn't take more than a half hour of it.
  
  Everything about this game is hard to control, from looking around to aiming, to my temper. The 
 graphics SUCK at best, and the dialog is straight out of a B-movie in the 3 dollar bin at walmart.
 
  
  Fun in video games begins with perfect play control and this game lacks it completely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabz_95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  Well red steel, one of the best selling wii games
  The reviews have been hugely split between reviews like 5 or 6 and reviews like 7 and 8. I was 
 wandering why this was. Well apparently Wikipedia says most of the high scoring reviews where European 
 reviews. So i'm guessing that the European version of the game must have had some last minute improvements 
 or something because there really is a huge clash of reviews.
  Anyway ill start the review now.
  First of all for the shooting side the wiimote functions perfectly. 
 And even if it didn't you can even change the sensitivity to your own liking so theres no problem 
 there. And it takes great advantage of the wii remote. All though it may be annoying to some, every 
 time you reach a door you push the nunchuk down to open it. Its not really how you would open a 
 door but its a nice touch. You pull it up and down to reload but it reloads automatically when 
 you run out of bullets, like all other first person shooters. Its a nice but odd touch to zoom 
 in on an enemy by pushing the remote forward towards the screen. Although its odd it still functions 
 perfectly and personally i like it. But a lot of people dislike the sword fighting. In my view 
 the sword fighting isn't great but its great for a first attempt at the sort of thing. Sometimes 
 you have to hold the remote and nunchuk horizontally for it to function pefectly but the instruction 
 menu does tell you that and its still a hell of a lot of fun. Overall the swordfighting isn't perfect 
 but is playable and is still very fun.
  Now for the graphics. The graphics can be absolutely beautiful in the game. The outside arenas 
 look the best. The nature is beautiful and the huge buildings are nice too. The area in the geisha 
 level is beautiful as well. Although there are some blocky moments the graphics are generally beautiful. 
 Get ready for some great lighting and fire effects too. One nice touch is that nearly everything 
 is destroyable which adds to the fun.
  Apart from the voice acting the sound is great in the game. There is some good music, the enemies 
 shout at battle cries as they attack you and it is very detailed as you can hear your grenade bounce 
 across the floor as you roll it towards the enemy. They also shout out and run away when they see 
 your grenades.
  The AI is usually great. They use cover well and they are hidden very well so if your using a sniper 
 rifle get ready to get some good cover and to make some quick turns and aim fast before you pull 
 back again. As i mentioned before, enemies run away as you throw grenades unless they don't see 
 it so the AI is generally great apart from times when they are stupid and don't see you while your 
 right next to them.
  The presentation of the menu is rather nice. The options are in neon lights and you have to drag 
 them onto a big LCD screen to choose things in the game. Its odd but its different which is cool 
 and it still looks really nice.
  There is quite a lot of replay value. It will take you 10 - 15 hours to complete the game but theres 
 a multiplayer mode and theres a stage select part so you can choose your favourite missions to 
 play again so it adds to replay value.
  Overall i think this is a great game, it has some bad points but is good for action and FPS fans 
 and is great for a launch title and is one of the prettier wii games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sensei_rees
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 17, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Okay, let me start out with one thing. THE CAMERA IS NOT THAT BAD!!!!!!
  CHANGE YOUR SENSITIVITY SETTING IF IT GIVES YOU TROUBLE!!!!!!!!
  
  this game, contrary to popular 
 belief, THIS GAME DOES NOT COMPLETELY SUCK. it can get a bit repetitive, but the swordfighting 
 breaks that up a bit.
  
  CONTROLS
  the controls feel pretty good and are pretty responsive. it actually feels somewhat like a gun. 
 the only problem, I think, is picking up guns, which requires a sweeping motion with the nunchuk. 
 I frequently ended up reloading instead of picking up the gun.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  pretty good. the swordfighting is fun as heck. the gunfighting is good.
  it gets repetitive sometimes, 
 but as I said before, the swordfighting helps. i only wish there were more of it, as about 80% 
 of the time, you will be gunfighting, except on one mission, my favorite, where you have frequent 
 fights with a Power Ranger wannabe with a lightsaber.
  not as long as many games, clocked in at about 10 hours.
  yah.
  its fun.
  
  GRAPHICS
 
  Not too bad. not as good as Halo or Ninja Gaiden, but better than most Gamecube games
  
  BOTTOM LINE
  Definitely worth picking up, or at least renting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrLaskowski
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 13, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  This was a great launch title attempt for the Wii. It showed the capabilities of the motion sensor 
 controls. The game really does respond to your hand motion, in terms of the aiming of the controller 
 and the swinging of the sword. Even the throwing the grenade is pretty cool. That being said, I 
 think the game was not tested before it was released. There are several times where I try to turn 
 left and the game starts spinning. Kind of annoying I think. The graphics are not good, not at 
 all. I understand that the Wii creates the games for the playability and the fun of motion control, 
 but the view stinks. It feels like you are looking through some sort of concave like lens, hard 
 to see.
  
  Video's could have greatly improved the story line, instead they do still motion, sort of comic 
 book style. Other things drive you crazy as well. It was a great idea, I hope other companies explore 
 the capabilities of the Wii like this game did, but polish it up a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Even though the single player mode sux in content, visual graphics and mostly in the dumb dialogues, 
 it's still worth buying it for some multi-player action with some friends, which I guarantee will 
 be tons of fun for you for quite a long time. For one of the first games to the wii i think the 
 game is underrated by most players.
  Game is pretty buggy and easy, that's for sure, and throwing granades with your nunchuck just sux. 
 But i found the aiming to be quite precise and intuitive.
  Anyway, it's a very good for starters game, very fun multi-player, and definitly worth the trying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GCrocksPS
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 9, 2007 11:41 pm PT
Review:  As a launch game and having received it as a launch game, I expected a lot more from it, but unlike 
 Gamespot, I don't think the game is crap. On the contrary, the game handles (mostly) quite nicely, 
 with some excellent graphical detail that looks (mostly) 3D and non-linear. I'm not sure whether 
 they are in real places or not, but the feel of the land is great and allows you to explore before 
 you fully begin the level, albeit if only until you reach a locked door. The gameplay is quick 
 to understand and grasp, and whilst the story is not utterly brilliant (guy saves girl, that kinda 
 thing) it still retains a feeling of sense of stupidity, allowing you to know exactly what you 
 have to do when you have to do it and how. It provides helpful tips in case you seriously can't 
 work it out, activated by the main screen. While the script itself may not be the most brilliant, 
 with great huge pauses between somebody dying and somebody else saying oh my god, you kinda lose 
 focus during the cutscenes, which are played out in the style of manga rather than FMVs. They don't 
 really help out anyway. It's when you hit Japan that the game gets better. A helpful in between 
 house allows you to stock up on weapons, health and ammo before you leave again and in game training 
 is available. The gripe I found most annoying is the aiming rectacle. It goes absolutely bonkers 
 at set points in the game. In the extreme wheels mission in usa, when you are walking back from 
 the showers the aim freaks and shoots towards the ceiling, getting worse and going haywire as you 
 try to manipulate it back into its rightful place. This happens several times during the game although 
 helpfully never when there is a huge group of enemies up ahead (mostly) . Overall, red steel is 
 a good shooter, blaster, fps, whatever, BUT it is let down by lousy sword fights that feel like 
 they have been thrown in at the last minute and can cause your arm to ache for many days. Rent 
 it, see how you like it, then buy it. Not for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickmat_tycoon
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 8, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Redsteel is an ok game. It is fine as a launch game for the wii. I mean, overall it is just ok. 
 If you like Redsteel, and you've played Dead Rising for xbox360 and like it, you would love Resident 
 Evil 4 for wii. I like how in Redsteel you can make it slow motion to shoot people. If it were'nt 
 for that, this game would be almost impossible to beat. The Multiplayer is great. I'd give the 
 story a 6/10 and the multiplayer an 8/10. The graphics are solid so i'd give them an 8/10. For 
 wii, the graphics are good, but it cannot compare to the other 2 next gen consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fang_lord
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  Red Steel, i highly anticipated wii launch game, that to many was a big disappointment, i think 
 this is because, at first glance, the graphics are average, the controls seem to responsive, and 
 the voice acting is dodgey. Well, in this review, i am going to tell you how i personally felt 
 as i played through this strange, yet good wii launch game.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  As said earlier, the graphics on red steel are average AT FIRST GLANCE. If you properly pay attention, 
 and actually look at the finer details, it is defiantly a above average game graphically. With 
 reflective water, great looking explosions, good looking guns, nice scenery and nice effects such 
 as gun firing etc. Although, it does have its down side, like the detail on the sword hilt changing 
 from having cool markings when using it, to having just a black handle when taking it out, or putting 
 it away. Small little thing, but it is defiantly noticeable.
  
  SOUND
  
  Has a pretty nice sound track. It changes in speed, and style depending where you are and what 
 you are doing. Example, being in a dojo has some classic Japaneses music, fighting in the Dojo, 
 or using swords, has a fast and furious drum beat, and if in a gun battle has some pretty nice 
 guitar stuff going on. And with some great explosions, and powerful sounding weaponry and sword 
 clashing, makes this game a joy to listen to. HOWEVER! The sounds from the Wii mote are a bit grainy, 
 and sound pretty bad, to help this, i recommend turning the volume down a bit on the wii mote. 
 Another annoying thing is the voice acting, its pretty bad throughout, and just sounds weird, although, 
 weirdly enough, fits in with the rest of the game.
  
  CONTROLS
  
  Easy to use, using the wii mote to aim, fire, switch weapon, swing your sword, and the Nun chuck 
 to reload, through grenades, move, defend and knife people and objects, its pretty easy to just 
 pick up and play. WARNING TO ALL PEOPLE NEW TO WII, Be gentle with the aiming, otherwise you WILL 
 fail at aiming, moving, and will probably go into a spin. I have never went into a spin, as this 
 was common sense to me, but it might not be to others.
  
  Once you get used to it and do some multi player, you can literally get a head shot by running 
 and flicking the wii mote to where you want, and shoot... well... maybe YOU cant, but I can... cos 
 i rock lol. GAMEPLAY
  
  The game is rather long, coming in at about 15-20 hours of single player, and includes a basic 
 multi player with death match, team death match and this weird game iv never played... but sounds 
 cool. The story is basically *POSSIBLE SPOILERS* you trying to save your Japanese Girl friend from 
 some bastard who betrayed the Yakuza leader. As a result u get pissed and go off and kill some 
 dudes and get her back *END SPOILER* If you read the above, you may be thinking, wow boring, but 
 thats just me saying very little about a in depth story of betrayal and uber coolness.
  
  You get to use a wide variety of weapons, and go to loads of varied places around America and Japan. 
 With plenty of gun shoot outs, and sword fights. The sword fights are said by many to be the worst 
 aspect... which i agree on, but not to the extent others say. It many be slow, clunky, and sometimes 
 boring. BUT, once you get into it, and start learning the secret moves from the Dojo, you can really 
 have some great fun with swords, well, i did anyway.
  
  Another cool thing is, if you get enough RESPECT (Gangsta!!!) you can choose to go and go to a shooting 
 gallery and earn the right to unlock loads of guns to use in the each mission before you go, which 
 is a nice add on, you also need respect to get new sword moves. This is a nice add on since it 
 gives you a reason not to murder every sword wielding tosser who comes at you. Also, one more minor 
 thing, when using a pistol, you can literally go all gangsta on those mo fo's as you can tilt the 
 wii mote and you will hold you gun sideways for some gangsta style pwnage.
  
  OVERALL
  
  A good wii game that has been hated by many for reasons that are nearly non existent, defiantly 
 a game to check out if you want a cheap &pound;15 game that has some pretty cool moments, even 
 if its not the perfect FPS. Hopefully Red Steel 2 will be everything ubisoft intended Red Steel 
 to be, but couldnt as they chose to rush it... 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - The sensor for this game is very limited . Instead of most wii games where the game 
 continues to monitor your controller off the sensor - this one does not. The gun is also really 
 hard to aim - there is actually an auto-aim button it's so bad . Graphics - mostly blurry with 
 really crappy character models Sound - horrible voice acting
  
  Length - no online multiplayer , but there is 4 player splitscreen : which i'm sure is a nightmare 
 of it's own bad tilt - back when it came out it was the only shooter , now there is metroid prime 
 and resident evil to compete with 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandonthesaint
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 26, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  I bought this a week ago and it was really fun once you get past the control issue, but after learn 
 all the tricks you can do it gets decently boring. I thought this game was under rated some what, 
 but it gets boring. The controls aren't the wost thing to me I thought the game would suck without 
 the controls the WII remote and numchuck saved this game. The worst part is the cutscenes which 
 are baciscally moving pictures they really got under my skin. The voice dialog isn't great but 
 it passes just barely. Another dissapointing fact about this game is graphics. If you watch the 
 E3 video of it the graphics look amazing when they're fighting on the roof. I played that part 
 and the visuals sucked badly. The only way you would or even could enjoy this game is to approach 
 it with lower standars then you will get some fun out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel was the game i was most looking forward to for the Wii. It seemed to have all i wanted, 
 first person shooter action and swordplay. This all looks good on paper, but isn't done very well 
 in the game. You begin the story as bodyguard named Scott who is going to marry a yakuza boss' 
 daughter. She gets kidnapped and you go out on your quest to find her. During this quest you will 
 encounter people who will shoot at you and challenge you to duels. I understand the Japanese honor 
 going on with the duels, but i honestly think i would just shoot some of those guys and hurry and 
 save the girl. The gunplay sounds great, with bullets always flying and reloading seems to come 
 to life with the wii remote speaker. Graphics are not on par with those of this generation, but 
 are easily looked over. Musical score doesn't really help those intense moments in the game, some 
 actually tone it down. Unless you have never heard of online play, you won't be impressed with 
 the multiplayer. After a few hours of mindless gunplay, you'll be ready for something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkthemaniac
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 18, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  I got Red Steel a few days after we got a Wii, so sometime after Christmas. My brother and I were 
 excited to see a shooting game on the Wii, and also wanted to engage each other in swordfighting 
 duels. Unfortunately, the game seemed to have only the bare minimum. All things aside, this game 
 is one or two bugs from being broken.
  
  You play as a Japanese American who is currently dating the daughter of a Yakuza mob boss. It starts 
 the game at a restaurant/hotel complex where you are meeting your will-be-father-in-law for the 
 first time. Just at that moment, expectedly, a rival Yakuza gang breaks up the gathering. The game 
 then leads you from California all the way to the land of Ninja and Samurai in a quest to save 
 your would-be wife.
  
  First off, let's address the story. It follows an unoriginal template set down by countless Steven 
 Segal flicks, making everything incredibly predictable. Next, the gameplay. While the controls 
 of the shooting aspects of the game work somewhat well (even if the avatar's wrist is constantly 
 moving around in an annoying fashion) , the swordfighting is one of the stupidest attempts of its 
 kind. While the controls don't read nearly as well as they should, the sheer concept of, as GS 
 put it, these skilled swordsman basing swords around like cavemen makes the game unappealing.
 
  
  Also, the multiplayer is a course for concern. There are four maps available and only three game 
 modes, which leave little variety to be had. The maps are unimpressive and the gameplay is full 
 of bugs, such as how your wrist looks broken all the time, grenades getting stuck in air, and your 
 starting weapon being more powerful than a shotgun. Also, there are no bot opponents. This isn't 
 necessarily a huge deal, since games like Halo don't have them, but it's always a nice addition. 
 Also, there was no swordfighting multiplayer in the game, but after seeing how it played, that 
 might be a very good thing.
  
  All in all, the game was thoroughly disappointing due to its derivative story, uninteresting multiplayer 
 and overall lack of effort. This game should be a poster child for games that try to rush to meet 
 a launch. If it isn't as good as it should be, don't send it out. Games could benefit massively 
 from that simple statement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: retrofraction12
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 11, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  well most people give it alot of trash because the graphis are bad, there are alot gliches, and 
 the AI wasn't good.
  
  But if you actually played it to the end you would have relised that this game strikes a mighty 
 punch.
  
  the campain mode is very long and exspancive. not to mention the level with the ceepy guy.
  
 
  but really the AI does get to the level of FEAR at the end of the game.
  
  the snipers have 100% accuracy and do use it.
  
  shooting guns has not ever been this fun gangster 
 style.
  
  I can pop 50 head shots alone in the multiplayer mode with the pistol.
  
  I really like the sniper rifle conrols.
  
  overall it was not worth $50 but no that it is $20 
 you should go ahead and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firefly06
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2007 3:50 am PT
Review:  Wow. I am intensely annoyed at gamespot after reading their review. This is for a few different 
 reasons:
  
  1. It is the first 'first person shooter' on the wii console and thus, there is bound to be some 
 things wrong with it. It is from this they will learn.
  
  2. If they didn't enjoy it, they didn't play it. I fell in love with this game within the first 
 five minutes. What isn't to love about twisting a 9mm sideways, gangster style, and someone as 
 they burst through the door firing many bullets at you? 3. Its use of the wiimote is revolutionary. 
 There is no other game that uses the wii remote like that, and as I said earlier it is a first 
 that they can learn from and refine the controls of.
  
  4. The computer AI is awesome. In other games they will run at you guns blazing. In Red Steel they 
 will use tactics, hide behind objects, even surrender to you.
  
  If you like shooters then how could you possibly not enjoy this game? It lacks a bit in the swordfight 
 area, but otherwise a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpoonsAndForks
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Because that's all the time that I could possibly spend playing this game before my arm fell off 
 because I was simply trying to make the camera stop spinning. No matter where I stood or even sat 
 in front of the sensor bar, my guy's arm just wanted to keep moving all over the place. Now maybe 
 I'm just a really sensitive guy, but even the controls on the lowest sensitivity setting were still 
 to much for me to handle. Ubisoft overkilled this one with the controls. To open doors you have 
 to swing down on the nun chuck. Was pushing the A button to much to ask for? And let's not forget 
 to mention that to zoom in you have to move the wii-mote forward? This even further complicates 
 the control scheme. So basically due to the horrible controls, I couldn't even begin to dent the 
 surface on what might have actually been a decent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGamerVII
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  This game has good gameplay, cool concepts like flipping over tables and how you reload.
  The sword fighting is cool, just not a common feature and you can't use the sword whenever you 
 want.
  
  This game is really guided and slightly repetitive, but is action filled and won't leave you bored.
 
  
  Redsteel is a must for Wii owners in my opinion, or at least give it a rental.
  
  Don't pass up the chance to say you've played Redsteel, because even though it was the first to 
 take the step into first person shooter, it was well made and cool to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twentymooseman
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  red steel is a sort of ok game that's at least worth renting. first the good. red steel is one 
 of those games that doesn't require much thought process to play, it's just point and shoot. so 
 if you like that sort of thing go ahead and play it. you can also get a laugh out of the exaggerated 
 explosions. the bad. the graphics are decent but are definitely lacking compared to other wii games 
 such as zelda. the dialouge and voice acting for the thugs is terrible and annoying. the thugs 
 are constantly popping off stupid one liners. and you barely ever need to aim down the sights, 
 which some people might like. it had potential but they just didn't pull it off right. overall 
 as i said red steel is the kind of mindless game that's ok whenever you want to let off some steam. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkgamingdude
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 25, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  Most people will tell you Red Steel is a rubbish game and to stay away from it. Well, I myself 
 found this to be quite a fun game. Yes it can be glitchy and yes the sword fighting isn't 1:1 but 
 that doesn't matter, Red Steel is one of those games you can pick up to kill some time on, or even 
 take out some of your anger on.
  
  The gameplay trys to mimic the controls of a PC FPS. Using the pointer to control the camera, this 
 really is the only downside as when your in the middle of a gunfight, at times you are unable to 
 turn around fast enough to take out the guy shooting from behind you. Most of the time your dead 
 before you've even swung half-way round. If you can look past this however, Red Steel can be a 
 very entertaining game. The Wiimote replicates real gun movements and I found aiming to be very 
 easy.
  
  Now for the sword fights. This is where alot of people complain about how there not 1:1 and how 
 it doesn't recognise all your exact movements and all that crap. Well, in honesty the sword fights 
 aren't anything awe springing. They can be alright and there is a few cool moves you can learn 
 (known as Kata's) that are handy in battle. You can either defeat fows by either depleting their 
 health bar or by breaking their sword. Once doing one of them you have the choice to kill or let 
 them live. I found this a pretty neat feature. Letting them live rewards you with respect points 
 which lets you learn new kata's and obtain sword and focus time upgrades. One last feature about 
 the gameplay is the focus time ability. Holding down a to aim and moving the Wiimote forward to 
 zoom then pressing c activates focus time. Here you can select a target to shoot at in slow mo. 
 Shooting an enemies gun well cause them to drop it and raise there arms. Move the Wiimote up and 
 down to tell them to drop there weapon. Doing this earns you respect points.
  
  Moving on now to graphics. This game looks pretty nice, from the streets of Tokyo to American factories 
 to inside a large Dojo. It is a good looking game for a launch title in the Wii library. There 
 is also alot of nice effects added. Screenshots don't do it for you, you have to see this game 
 for yourself. This game sounds good as well, the right music for when your in the midst of a gun-fight 
 or sword battle. Ubisofts done a great job here.
  
  The only thing down really is the lifespan, this game won't do you a great deal of time, mayb 10 
 hours at the most. You can reply levels and try to get a higher rank, but these don't go towards 
 your files overall percentage, a real bummer. As for that there's no real side quest in the game, 
 the only thing I can thing of would be learning new moves and training at the Dojo and unlocking 
 guns in the target practice under the bar.
  
  So to sum up, Red Steel is an average game for the Wii really. It's only a launch title and had 
 been a little rush. I'd recommend giving it a rent to see if you like it first. Well that's it 
 for my review of Red Steel for the Wii. I'm going to give it 7.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monkey-Man1234
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 24, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  When the Wii launched a lot of people were excited about this game and went so far as to pay $50 
 for it. That is a complete waste. If you can find this game for about $10, that's somewhat ok.
 
  
  So a first person shooter using your arm to aim sounds perfect right? Wrong. The controls are super 
 flaky at times, and will often go out of control and cause the camera to spaz out. For the most 
 part the controls work, but that doesn't mean it makes it anymore enjoyable than using a stick. 
 The sword fighting is ok, nothing real special. It is a bit more entertaining than the gun fights, 
 but they can get glitched, and there aren't many different moves.
  
  There is some decent music and sound effects, but unfortunately, that couldn't be any farther than 
 the truth for the voice acting. It is absolutely horrible! On top of that most of the dialouge 
 is awful too. It seems they took about 30 minutes to write all of the speech. Cutscenes are presented 
 in a comic book style. Personally, since I'm not a fan of anime or comics, I don't care for them, 
 but it's just my preference. Over all this game is a good rent or cheap buy, and thank god I borrowed 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simpsons2102
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Redsteel for the wii is definietly one of the most underated games. Redsteel has a very fun and 
 long story mode but it is very, very hard. The story mode is about stoping japanese communists 
 .In redsteel u can do multiplayer mode for up to 4 people. You get to pick a character, a bonus, 
 and a selection between 4 different boards. Redsteel for the wii is one of (if not) the best multiplayer 
 game for this system. This game uses the wii mote and nunchuck for an intense gameplay. This game 
 will be fun, with, or without friends. I highly recommend this game to all wii owners.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ds_wiirocks
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  i wonder why people say its bad.. go sword fighting, guns, and fps. worth buying and thee money. 
 go buy it. its a great storyline, fabulous actions with wiimote and nunchuk, graphics r not bad, 
 and its just soo good. what r u waiting for... go buy it now at best buy, toysrus, future shop, 
 ebay, eb games, gamestop, whereevr. its a great game for your wii collection or if your planiing 
 2 buy a wii, buy this game first cuz it is very good in sound, brightness, action, controls, etc. 
 thats it.. have fun with red steel... hope a sequel comes out sometime in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterj_123
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  well i loved this game but unfortunatley i didnt get to complete it i was on the last chapter when 
 my wii broke! But the controls are great ive found and it is very fun. it can be hard in some places 
 but its at normal difficulty for most of the game.
  
  The game uses the wii remote very well and controls are easy to use. the story is that some yakuza 
 guys or gangstas have took your girl friend and you go out to save her. You play the boyfried and 
 an american or known as by the japanese a gygien not sure if thats spelt right.
  
  I recommend this to all who have a wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shanerfin
Rating: 4.2
Date: Aug 12, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Well I was very excited for Red Steel, thinking to myself, Hey, it's Ubisoft, they will pull something 
 out of the bag here. Boy, was I wrong. This game was very easy, and the spazzmatic FPS controls 
 were nearly impossible to shoot. When A guy would pop up behind me it took me 20 seconds just to 
 turn around with the wii remote. A single twitch of the wrist and everything goes bezerk. Red steel 
 had a lot of potential, but the horrible graphics and random sword play thrown into the game completely 
 ruined it for me. If they make a better controlled, better graphiced Red Steel game where you could 
 just pull out your sword and own some noobs, then maybe I would consider this game. As for now, 
 go with a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalhead164
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 12, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  The game Red Steel, what a game this game looks great on the Wii and is very fun. Really this is 
 a very well made game for the Wii. Listen if you want to get a Wii and you love FPS's you will 
 want to try this game over Far Cry Vengence and Call of Duty 3. This game's sensitivity is not 
 bad either on the Wii it is simple and very enjoyable. The gun fights are awesome and it is not 
 a pain in the a** to control your charcters gun. A nice thing Red Steel took advantage of from 
 the Wii is the motion sensing. You can turn your Wii mote sideways and your gun will turn sideways 
 and it only makes you feel like a gangster. Nice explosions are nice too. For example, when you 
 are in the laundry room and enemies are taking cover behind the dryers and washing machines you 
 can shoot the machines and they will explode and it is a nice explosion too it isn't really quick.
 
  
  The graphics are not bad either, for a Wii game the graphics are nice and well worked out. You 
 use the nunchuk and wii mote a lot in ways like slashing with your wii mote moving it forward to 
 zoom in and the nunchuk you move it down to open a door reload and block an enemies sword swipe.
 
  
  In my opinion the fighting sequences are a nice addition. They work simply you get out your sword 
 and start a battle and you can't just keep swiping your wii mote over and over again. You have 
 to dodge and counter, that makes it a bit more fun. And if you have defeated your enemy you have 
 a chance to spare him in which you get respect points or just kill them. The enemies do not give 
 you a chance to shoot them either like in Far cry Vengence the acually give you a challenge. To 
 wrap it up this game is great and is a good game to get for your Wii. Think about getting this 
 FPS first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gravemind456
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 11, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is hated by most people. One of the first thing people use to slate it is that there 
 is no blood. Who cares??? Does Mario have blood, does Zelda, does Sonic, no they don't so why make 
 a big deal of it. Another thing that people argue is that this game is too awkward to handle. I 
 found it fine, and I am picky. The story is convincing enough to be taken seriously and the music 
 is fitting. Some people also say that the sword fights are bad but aside from the repetitiveness 
 of them they are incredibly accurate and quite absorbing. Call me sad but when I beat the enemies 
 and had them on their knees I felt a power that you don't get from that many games. I could let 
 this man live or die my choice. Whether or not there is blood, execution is a hefty thing. I still 
 don't think this is a great game but it is hardly as bad as people say. I would recommend that 
 you rent or borrow this game because once completed there isn't much incentive to go again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jareddra
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  O. K. this is where I draw the line on people giving this awsome game a bad review. This game has 
 it all like all sorts of guns and sword fighting which is not hard to master. Did I mention you 
 get to use the Wii remote and nunchuk for sword fighting HELLO!!!!!!!!!!!!!! thats really fun. 
 The detail of the environments and that they are actually destructable is awsome. One of my favorite 
 parts of the game is the focus mode where you go into like slow motion and can point where you 
 are going to shoot and either disarm or kill your enemy and that is really cool. I love this game 
 and can't put it down. This game is one of the best first person shooters I have ever played and 
 I have played a lot of first person shooters. This is one true Next Generation game. This deverves 
 a way better rating period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoshiMustDie
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 10, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  I like the fact that this took me back to the days of Area 51 in the arcade. It was rather nice 
 remembering that. I enjoy the shooting and what not, but with what the game was trying to do, they 
 should have stuck where previous success prevailed.
  
  Pros:
  -Plays like an arcade shooter... er... sort of.
  
  Cons:
  -Reload button (why not just shoot 
 off screen?)
  -The game is just not fun. -Same crap, different room.
  
  Game motto:
  You kill that guy, and that guy, oh god look he is hiding behind a plant again... 
  
  Please 
 for the love of god don't buy this game new. GameStop and what not only give you 5 dollars credit 
 for it. Wii Play gets more $ than this paper weight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alcomoney
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 7, 2007 3:33 am PT
Review:  This game is the best FPS ever on the wii from what i can see cause i only have 2 games.... and 
 it took quite long so it was fun. The controls were easy once you get used to it, and you get used 
 to it really quick so it was really really fun to open doors and reload and stuff.
  
  Sword fighting was also cool with the moves and awesome stuff and i find it cool and easy, the story 
 was also cool.
  
  the graphics was also kinda good compared to the wii.
  
  ... nothing wrong with the sound.
  
  But the thing is was the glitches, sometimes the enemy's 
 glitch.... and one time i got stuck behind a door, but no problem with me cause i still like it.
 
  
  So i dont know why most people give it a 5 or one guy gave it a 1 but i say this is an awesome 
 game and i liked every part of it, it was soo worth the money. i dont care about the graphics or 
 whatnot but what i care about is was the gameplay and i found the game soo awesome, thanks for viewing 
 if you did ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yarcofin
Rating: 6.4
Date: Aug 6, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  Graphics/Aesthetics:
  The game as a whole looks quite good. Nice explosions, character models, gun models, and level 
 design. Obviously it isn't the best Wii will be able to do in the years to come, but it's a good 
 start as the first FPS for the system.
  
  Variety:
  Overall Red Steel is much of the same thing. Having around 5 swordfights per level seems forced 
 and doesn't really go with the storyline. That being said, over the course of Red Steel you will 
 go from fighting average Japanese people in a flashy pachinko house, to ninjas, to what appear 
 to be Power Rangers, to shooting it out with guys in Godzilla costumes. At one point you will be 
 running up a ski hill while explosive bunnies rain down on you. If the whole game was such a rainbow-coloured 
 psychedelic thrill-ride, I'd definately give it a better rating, but much of the buildings in the 
 rest of the game can be bland.
  
  Controls:
  I thought that I was just not used to the controls at first or the controls just absolutely sucked, 
 but as I got further and further into the game, it got much easier to manage. I went back and played 
 the first level again for comparison, and the initial pistol you get does seem to actually be clunky 
 and ruin your aim intentionally. Throughout most of the game my shot accuracy for each level ran 
 around 25% on average. Not that bad considering you're using automatic weapons most of the time 
 and often trying to clear 5 enemies at once. My lowest was 13% in a level I used an Uzi for most 
 of the time, and my highest was the last level with 66% using a sniper rifle for the majority of 
 it.
  Sword-fighting controls are varied and good, but you don't really need to use them at all. I literally 
 beat all swordfights in the game except the last three levels (when they start to block your attacks 
 and you have to fight properly) by simply repeatedly swinging the wii remote back and forth repeatedly 
 with no technique. In the last three levels there is a sudden difficulty increase and you must 
 actually block attacks, dodge, and break a couple of opponent's swords in half... but overall the 
 swordfighting portion of the game seems forced and unrealistic.
  
  Sound:
  Sound is hard to give a good or bad assignment to.. you really need to break it down into music 
 and voiceovers, and then there are still exceptions. The music of this game is amazing and sounds 
 authentically Japanese, with proper instruments and singing. However, the voices often sound stereotypical 
 and faked. Some of the main characters have good voices, but others are just terrible and sound 
 like a white person doing a chinese impression. Maiko, the girl who trains you in new sword techniques, 
 has by far the most annoying voice I've heard in a game for a while. Hearing Sorry Scott, no new 
 moves to learn for now made me cringe every time I heard it. It's hard to explain what is so terrible 
 about it...
  
  The bad:
  - On two occasions I encountered a glitch where I got stuck in a corner and couldn't move, where 
 even throwing grenades at my feet wouldn't kill me and get me out.. I had to turn the system off 
 and start from the last checkpoint. Any game with improper floor attributes loses some respect 
 in my eyes... they should have picked that up in testing. Although it's not like it happens all 
 the time and ruins the game.
  - You spend the entire game gaining respect points and unlocking weapons to your personal collection, 
 but as far as I can tell, there is no way to go back and choose specific guns after you have beaten 
 the game. I really want to go back through the entire game with a sniper rifle.
  - I only played multiplayer once, but from what I played it seems mediocre at best. There are very 
 few levels to choose from... 2 if I recall, actually. There was also no swordfighting multiplayer 
 option.
  - I thought the ending could have been done better, but I won't go into details and spoil it for 
 people.
  
  Overall experience:
  In retrospect, Red Steel is pretty good for a launch title I suppose. Make sure that it's not the 
 first game you pick up and play on Wii, or you will be frustrated and disappointed at first. I 
 don't regret buying it, but I would probably recommend to other people that they try to get it 
 in the bargain bin instead. It's worth around $30, not $59.99. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HuntersPrey
Rating: 4.9
Date: Aug 3, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel was not a good way to start of the Wii's shooters . There were many times where the controls 
 were unresponsive and the graphics were usually choppy, which isn't what Nintendo was after in 
 the first place. Not much really to this game, a decent story with interesting characters and setting. 
 But even a good story cannot upgrade UbiSoft's horrible job with this one. When first hearing about 
 the game. Sword play is to precise and also sometimes unresponsive. Interesting use of the WiiMote 
 and Nunchuk, with a ton of potential, that ran dry somewhere in production. All in all, stay away 
 from this one if you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyromaster14
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 3, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit, I was skeptical whenever Gamespot gave it's rating for the game, I mean, it was on 
 my to buy list on the launch date. But I decided to buy Twilight Princess and Monkey Ball instead.
 
  
  It wasn't until 8 months after the launch date of this game when I finally decided to rent it at 
 my local video store, and I have to say, I actually had some fun playing this. It is not worth 
 buying, I'll tell you that much right now, but if you can tolerate some mediocrity, you'll have 
 somewhat of a good time if you have low standards in games.
  
  The game's story goes like this: You play as a security guard named Scott, he falls in love with 
 his Japanese client, Miyu. the two go to a resturaunt in Los Angeles where they meet Miyu's father, 
 and tell him that they're getting married. Before this could happen though, the resturaunt is bombarded 
 with Yakuza, Miyu's father is killed, and Miyu herself is kidnapped, It is up to Scott to rescue 
 her and avenge his future father-in-law.
  
  On to the gameplay, the controls, mork moderately well, what is fun is that if you have the handgun 
 equipped, you can tilt the wii remote to the side and make you look like a gangsta. but the AI 
 is average, but still a little challenging. the swordplay was extremely disappointing, it looked 
 nothing like the swordfight in the trailer. Plus, there is absoulutely no blood in the game, despite 
 the name Red Steel 
  
  The graphics are kind of bland and chalky, but we didn't expect it to be like the PS3 or the 360, 
 but still, it could have been better. The cutscenes are wierd, like a comic book- a weird-ass comic 
 book. The voice acting is kinda mixed, sometimes it's average, and sometimes it's god-awful. I 
 still can't listen to that Angel girl, I want to kill her.
  
  Overall. Red Steel is a pretty decent game, and makes nice use of the Wii. Hopefully the sequel 
 will improve on the fields that were lacking, mainly the sword play, but if you like handling guns 
 that you can't afford or can't use because it violates your parole. It's a bullet shooting, sword 
 flicking good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aneal7
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 2, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Wat can i say about red steel. i know the graphics were not that good but they were payable. i 
 loved the soundtrack when they were fighting. the game will take you only a couple of days to beat 
 and after that you probably wont play it unless someone is over. the bad thing about the game was 
 the sword fighting. they were just placed in random places and there was no feel with it. the game 
 has no difficulty levels and it will be hard especially the last sword fight. overall i had a fun 
 time with the game and i would easily recommend this for a starter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glennwinton
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 1, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Many people bought Red Steel at full price when the Wii first launched, and many were a little 
 disappointed. The game gives a new way to play, but aside from that it's a pretty standard shooter, 
 that feels a little to rushed.
  
  Red Steel is the first FPS for the Wii, and introduces a new and interesting way to play FPS, but 
 the new control scheme isn't any better than playing an FPS on a PC or another Console, it's just 
 different.
  
  The game gives you pretty standard array of weapons, from sniper rifles to shotguns, but most of 
 the time you'll just be using your trusty pistols. Shotguns are powerful but slow, while sniper 
 rifles are rather clunky at close range. You can zoom in with any weapon for more accurate shooting, 
 sniper rifles replace the normal zoom with a scope, allowing you to snipe your enemy's easily from 
 a good distance.
  
  Around the middle of the game you will have the choice of killing or diarming your enemy, your 
 given respect if you let the mlive, but no reward is given for killing them, which is unfortunete. 
 You will also find that respect just makes enemys hesitate and gives you more weapons, but because 
 you only really need your default weapons it doesent matter that much.
  
  The health system is also pretty standard, you can take a few shots, but you but you will soon 
 be on the run for cover. Getting away for a few seconds recharges the health, meaning that most 
 of the time you won't have trouble until late in the game.
  
  The game feels rather rushed, as most launch game usually are. but little subtle things are going 
 to detract from the experience. Rag doll physics aren't the best, sometimes dead bodys will get 
 stuck on walls or shake uncontrollably which on the ground. Hit detection can sometimes also be 
 annoying, it may take two or three shots to the head until it registers.
  
  The AI is also a little on the dumb side, most of the time their just a little dumb, sometimes 
 they will get very hard, and sometimes they will just stand there, waiting for you to shoot them. 
 It's not uncommon for one enemy to smartly get behind cover shoot at you behind safety, and the 
 guy next to him will just stand there.
  
  While most of the controls work reasonably well, some aspect don't quite work out. The sniper rifles 
 scope requires you to shove your hand forward, sometimes it won't register, and most of the time 
 shoving your aming hand forward will trow off your aim, making you look for your target again, 
 wasting valuable time. Like most console shoters, even with tweaking, turning around is slow and 
 annoying, even more so in Red steel, where you have to move the Wiimote to the side of the screen 
 to move. sometimes, trying to go a little faster, you'll point the wiimote a little to far and 
 the guy will spin out of control.
  
  Speaking of control issues, another thing the game does is put you into little minigames every 
 once in a while where you need to beat an enemy at sword fighting. This may sound cool, but in 
 practice it's love or hate. The controls are not that great and the exicution isn't that of skillful 
 warriors, but more like dudes with big sticks hitting each other on the head in intervals.
  Like when your just shooting, your given the chance to kill or spare your ememy for respect.
 
  
  You can't move back or forth, your forced to move around in a circle around your opposite, even 
 though your enemy can sidestep and move back and forth freely, your enemy can also stab, while 
 your forced to only swipe and slash. Even though these aren't the games of skill that the trailers 
 led you to believe, these are still a fun diversion from the standard shooting action.
  
  It's also unfortunete that there is no blood in the game, this makes the name misleading and makes 
 killing enemys instead of letting them live much less satisfying. The Story and voice acting are 
 sub-par, many voices in the game are racist sounding or annoying, and the story is something you 
 would see in a bad B action movie. and most of the story is told through lazy still pictures. further 
 indicating that the game was rushed. Basically, your a man who's engaged to a Japanese woman who's 
 father is head of a yakuza clan, and while your meeting him your soon-to-be wife is taken by a 
 rival clan in a failed assassination atempt , and it's your job to get her back. the game has multiple 
 endings and a multiplayer mode, but the multiplayer mode isn't very interesting and is just there 
 for the sake of being there.
  
  Even with all the problems I found with the game, it was still enjoyable and fun while it lasted. 
 The shooting is fairly fun nad the sword fighting is a nice distraction, but there are just too 
 many problems to recommend, when this game gets marked down to 20 dollars though, go ahead and 
 buy it, but i wouldn't buy it at full price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akel777
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 28, 2007 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Red steel is a game that was hyped and apparently did not live up to it. Reviewers beat it up a 
 bit, but even so, it still gained a bit of success. Overall, the game doesn't seem that bad to 
 me. The controls are a bit difficult to work with, but still good enough to provide a basic and 
 satisfying gun experience. The swordplay is a bit silly though. I understand the intent of the 
 developers when they designed the fighting system, but the final product isn't all that great. 
 The graphics seemed fine for a launch title. The character models look a little iffy, but easy 
 to see past the flaws. The game isn't amazing and their isn't much replay value, but it's great 
 to just run and gun. If you enjoy the romanticizing of the Yakuza Life, and want a decent FPS experience 
 on the Wii, there isn't much choice out there, but this one fits the bill fairly nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HK-47-M4
Rating: 1.7
Date: Jul 28, 2007 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Ubisoft invested heavily in the Wii during it's launch and launched an astounding SEVEN launch 
 titles, with five being exclusive. Unfotunately they were all horrible save one, and unfortunately 
 this wasn't it. This title was touted as being the only one built from the ground up FPS available 
 for Wii. During a part in Zelda, I got confused and started taking a break. So I decided to rent 
 another game while taking a week long break. I looked online and saw that this game got bad reviews, 
 but some of my friends had played it at their friend's houses and said it was awesome, so I took 
 a gamble that didn't pay off. Though at least I only rented it.
  
  The story is awful and then it gets even worse with the gameplay, sound, and graphics.
  
  For 
 gameplay: If this is your first time playing a FPS for Wii then there will be a bit of a learning 
 curve. But it sounds simple enough, point at the bad guy and shoot, right? WRONG! Not only are 
 the controls unresponsive but if you finally do get it pointed where you want, it will zoom over 
 to the right side making it hard to aim. Then the sword fights are just stupid, you would just 
 shoot a guy who has a sword not fight him with another sword. The sword fights are even MORE unresponsive 
 than the guns. There is convienently no other people armed with guns when your fighting a swordsman. 
 The only good thing about gameplay is they let you use the analog stick for moving.
  
  The graphics are horrible on this game! Their blurry and are worse than a First Generation PS2 
 game. In fact I see no reason why they couldn't be possible on the Nintendo 64. This is one of 
 the most ugly looking titles on Wii, if not THE worst.
  
  The sound is substandard and the voice acting is atrocious. To make things even worse: The music 
 stinks. This game is definately not worth your money, not even a rental. I feel sorry for those 
 who bought this game on launch day thinking it would be awesome since it was so overhyped. There 
 is no online mode and the only other mode other than the terrible campaign is multiplayer which 
 lets you play with up to three friends in a free for all match. The good news about this mode: 
 No sword fights. More good news: If you wans to lose a friend then invite them over to play this 
 game with you.
  
  All in all you WILL hate this game. It was overhyped and a total dissapointment. Bad news: Due 
 to the SERIOUS overhypeness, over one million people bought this game to be dissapointed. Ubisoft 
 thinks this game was a success and have announced a sequel. I on the other hand hope this sequel 
 will mysteriously never appear on store shelves. My advice: Avoid this like the Plague! If FPS 
 is what you want then go wait for Metroid Prime 3: Corruption. Trust me it will be worth the wait. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 28, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  This game is perhaps one of the most underrated game! It is simply fantastic... Why go all the 
 way to asia and pay for a flight, when you can hear the same gbfds! shangun-huh! shouted on the 
 wii? This game allows for a good multiplayer experience and is essentially a must-have for people 
 who love 1st person shooters. The senery in this game is also very beatifull, from cramped elevators 
 overlooking tokyo, to abandoned toy manufacturing sites, this game captures a bit of everything. 
 Furthermore, Redsteel has you sprawling with machine guns, sniper rifles, rare blades, grenades 
 and what not.... This game is about saving your girlfriend who is kidnapped and is offered as an 
 exchange for a sacred blade... WTH? Why dont we all just settle in the carribean??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jul 27, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  When the Wii came out this game along with Super Monkey Ball and Rayman had the most Buzz when 
 the system lauched late last year.. Ubisoft saw the wii controls and they made a new game based 
 on Mondern Japan.. The game mostly fails at Terrible controls, Goofy animations, bad Camera and 
 Boring Storyline..
  
  The Main part that really bugs me when i am playing this game is the amount of potential this game 
 could have had.. there are small sprinkles of what the game could have been and what the game i 
 am playing just plain sucks.. the controls are really bad cause when your firing the gun the accuracy 
 is really really bad and it should have been very good considering what the wii has to offer. the 
 other thing is when your needing to duck to take cover of switch your weaponds the wii does not 
 always pick it up.. not that it never but sometimes and that is very important when your in the 
 mist of battle.
  
  The other thing that really bothered me about this game was the animations of you in particular. 
 when your holding the gun your arms don't move like normal arms they flonder and it looks really 
 goofy quite frankly. some of the effects after you kill a guy are not so real either
  
  Camera is another thing that this game suffers. because of all the action a lot of times you have 
 people shooting at you and you can't see them or fix the camera in time before they kill ya.
  
  And the Storyline is Dull and boring.. its not something that i can't get into
  
  Overall 
 this game had a lot of hope and could have been a excellent game but big flaws in the game really 
 drag it down. if you get by the all the negitvies then you will find this game very enjoyable if 
 not you just wasted your money. you either love it or hate i hate it... Breakdown
  Gameplay: Little Bits of what the game could have been but your back into the game.. frusterating 
 controls and ennoying AI
  Graphics: apart from your hand looking very unrealistic the game looks pretty good
  Sound: fits 
 the game and mood its try to show its solid
  Value: depending on who you are this could go skyrocketed or plumed for me i just gave it a 7.. 
 there is multiplayer mode witch can be enjoyable
  Overall: Meh just not my type of game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MARIODXXX
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 26, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  So, how many times did you watch those great action movie of a guy with a Sword and a nice collection 
 of guns goes out to fight? How about being that guy? Hmm? You want to be that guy? Ok then, get 
 Red Steel!
  Its excellent shooter/Samurai gameplay makes it a masterpiece.
  The only Reason this game didn't get a perfect 10.0 was because of those Bugs and Glitches. No, 
 I am not the type of guy that when he sees a bug in a game he stops liking it, but man, there were 
 some really serious bugs. In one level for example there was a part that I got stuck in boxes unable 
 to get out of the boxes! Luckily, I was close to a checkpoint. Also, the swordfights motion sensing 
 was sometimes out of control. And so, I found myself doing a combination of Up-Down-Up-Left-swing 
 both hands away Hundreds of times and eventually succeeding but for a price- my hand hurt for 2 
 days. But that could be just me. besides that I really like this game and the way that it isn't 
 one of the run shoot win game (because if you are that kind of first person shooter gamer you won't 
 make it past the first level in my opinion) but the fact that its very tactic and I used some nice 
 real combat tactics I learned about and it really helped.
  Bottom line: A Great Game that has glitches but swinging your sword like a real samurai makes me 
 give this game a flashing 9.7!!
  Until my next Review: Sayonara, my fellow gamers!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icarusmk3
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 24, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel could have been a lot of things. Unfortunately due to its lackluster controls, unrefined 
 gameplay, and tons of bugs, things are not the way they should have been.
  
  First off, I already anticipated that the graphics of Red Steel would not be up to snuff compared 
 to the 360 and PS3 releases, but damn I didn't know the difference can be so... severe. Even compared 
 to other Wii games such as Zelda and Resident Evil 4, Red Steel just fall short. This coupled by 
 the laggy controls and in precision of the wiimote and nunchuk, really made the game from bad to 
 worse.
  
  In terms of story, its your usual fair of gangster killing basically everything that moves in the 
 screen, not much new: been there done that. The mediocre music and terrible sounds makes the topping 
 on the cake. Red Steel should have been a great game, but the lack of refinement and attention 
 to detail has really hit this game badly. Nice try Ubisoft, but you've got to do a whole lot better 
 than that to get my MONEY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackBauer1005
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 23, 2007 3:06 am PT
Review:  Red Steel is the best game the Wii has which is a first player shooter. The games plot is about 
 your character Scott who is set to met his wife to be father and ask for her hand in marriage. 
 But just as you are about to met him armed gang memebers start shooting at him and you are knocked 
 out. As you go through the first couple of levels you start to learn how to fire a gun pick up 
 a gun etc. but the best part of the game is the sword fighting which gets better and harder as 
 you progess through the game. There are a few probs with th game which is that sometimes the sords 
 combat can be a bit bad as you have to wave the remote in front of the sensor which can be a pain 
 when trying to attack people. The graphics are the best i have seen for the Wii at this current 
 time. The main thing this game needs is to be updated to have the sword combat updated a bit. When 
 Red Steel 2 comes out i hope Ubi Soft sort the sword play out and allow people to duel weid weapons 
 like handguns. It is a must get for all Wii owners mainly if you love games like Halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TigerFangRed
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 17, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel was one of Nintendo's first forays into the first-person shooting genre on their next 
 gen console. This game has so much potential, and does nearly everything that you'd expect from 
 a solid FPS right. You play Scott, a Gaijin (foreigner) about to ask his girlfriend's dad if he 
 can marry her. However, before the question even comes up, the daughter is kidnapped and you must 
 help her father (Sato) find her. However, Sato runs a form of the Yakuza, but what he calls a noble 
 branch off of it. While the story isn't all that fantastic, it does give you a bit of purpose and 
 is generally satisfying.
  
  However, as most FPS fans agree, in a game like this, it's all about the guns and how you control 
 them. The game is controlled using the Wiimote and Nunchuk attachment. You shoot with the B trigger, 
 move with the Nunhcuk analog stick, and reload by moving the Nunchuk down quickly. You turn by 
 moving the reticule to the edge of the screen. Also, a nice touch is that this turning speed can 
 be adjusted in the menu to personal preference. The shooting controls are excellent and executed 
 very well. The swordplay, unfortunately, is not what it was hyped to be. It is not 1:1, however, 
 it is a good way to mix up the gameplay. You block by shaking the Nunchuk and attack by swinging 
 the Wiimote. The controls work well on this part, but they still dissapoint due to not being 1:1.
 
  
  The graphics in Red Steel match up to the best of last-gen. Not quite what I'd wanted, but they 
 get the job done. Almost everything can be destroyed, or at least shot realistically. Sparks fly 
 off when you hit metal, and wood chips fly when hitting wood, etc.
  
  The sound is some of the best for any FPS. The guns all sound powerful (except for the Uzi Variant... which 
 kind of confused me) and, as stated above, the materials all act life-like. When you hit metal, 
 a satisfying ping will sound. Likewise, hitting any material in the game, such as glass, metal, 
 wood, etc, all sound how you'd expect them to sound when colliding with a bullet in real life.
 
  
  However, where the game shrugs off is in it's value. The lack of online play is dissapointing, 
 as this would've really set off Nintendo's online service extremely well. It does have a multiplayer 
 mode, but that is limited to 4 player split-screen. You will most likely get through the campaign 
 mode within 10 or so hours. After beating it, you won't have much to do, unless you want to play 
 the split screen multiplayer with friends.
  
  All in all, Red Steel is an enjoyable experience. For a launch game, it was better than most. It's 
 not groundbreaking in its execution, but it is an enjoyable experience while it lasts. Due to the 
 short length of the game, you may want to rent it first. But since it was a launch game, you can 
 now find it for a reduced price, so you may want to pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxarama99
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jul 17, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't to bad the multi-player is boring after 2 rounds and you can not sword fight against 
 your buddies witch i found out the story mode is pretty fun but could be better with a 2 player 
 story but it is fun don't buy it ! ! something like getting revenge on you father in law's buddy 
 who tried to kill him, the enemie's voices are pretty much all the same screaming die you bastard! 
 and when you kill a guy they flop down like a rag-doll. all i am saying is don't buy don't buy 
 not that good that is all thank you very very very very very mucho much.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R3V0LUT10N
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 16, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  If theres three things we guys like, its guns, girls and gangsters (also fast cars, but that didnt 
 fit in with the alliteration I was trying to get there) . And thats why its clear that Red Steel 
 is the quintesential guys game. It doesnt go out of its way to do anything special, instead, it 
 capitalises on its cheesy story and all out action gameplay to give a fun if somewhat familiar 
 experiamce. It doesnt have deep subplots or believable characters, but who cares when can wield 
 swords and guns? Its certainly not going to change your life, but youll certainly have a blast 
 when youre mowing down hundreds of Yakuza thugs, so much so its faults are often completely forgotten.
 
  
  The story in Red Steel couldnt be any less original if it tried. Youre a body guard (and one 
 who never speaks or has any feeling from what youll see in the game, but then FPS games have been 
 doing this at us for years now) , and your out with your fiance on a trip to meet her father, a 
 powerful Yakuza boss. Of course, it would be a pretty dull game if everything went to plan, and 
 soon enough, youre under attack by endless waves of japanese gangsterswith guns! Seems that your 
 future father-in-law has made himself a few enemies in his deelings, and some cocky upstart Yakuza 
 had decided enough is enough. In the process of all this your fiance is taken hostage, and thats 
 your que to pick up a gun and start blasting everything in sight. Corny? Yup. But satisfying? You 
 bet!
  
  As soon as the game begins, its clear that Ubisoft hasnt ignored the Wiis extra graphical grunt. 
 While the game has been downgraded since it was first revealed at E3, it isnt ugly by any means. 
 There are great lighting effects on show in the first level, but its the later levels that will 
 have you amazed with just what is being pumped out. There are quite a few people who have claimed 
 this game is ugly, but apart from a few unfortunate areas, I cant see where they are coming from. 
 Very rarely youll find a hideously textured object at the back of a room, and some of corridors 
 are a bit plain looking, but overall Red Steel looks great (easily on par with Resident Evil 4 
 in most areas) . The character models are good, but have this strange effect with sometimes gives 
 them what looks like a white out-line making then look like theyve been badly cut out or are wearing 
 plastic suits. This doesnt really matter in any great way, but if youre one of those people who 
 is obsessed with games looking realistic (though if you are, quite why you bought a Wii is beyond 
 me) , you may not always be happy with Red Steel.
  
  The sound is pretty good overall. The music ranges from some classic orental stuff, to catchy Japanese 
 pop. Enemies will often yell things to each other, though thanks to Ubisofts attempts to get away 
 with a T rating in the US the enemies will occasionally spout hilariously tame lines at you. The 
 voices overall could also do with some work, with a few naff Japanese accents in the mix. The weapons 
 actually sound pretry good overall, though some could probably have done with a bit more of a meaty 
 sound.
  
  Of course, the most important things in any game is gameplay, and Red Steel for the most part delivers. 
 This is classic shooter material, there are no vehicles to ride around in, and youll never get 
 any back-up to help you out. Not that youll ever really need it, since aiming with the remote 
 is so easy. There is a bit of an aiming window to help you out, but youll never really need it 
 as pointing at your enemies noggin and clicking the B button is just as easy as it sounds. Indeed, 
 perhaps for the first time in a console first person shooter you can pull of some awesome manuveures 
 without needing a lightgun or several years of practise on the analouge stick. Id say it was only 
 a few levels before I was blasting away like a pro, and thats quite good coming from somebody 
 who isnt the best at FPS games. Later on youll gain the power to freeze time with your awesome 
 samurai skills, and then you pull of some spectacular shots where you can lay waste to entire rooms 
 of foes in seconds, or even better, blow the guns right out of their hands and make them bow down 
 before you. Doing this will get you honour points, and while Ive yet to discover what the hell 
 these do, its still nice to get them anyway.
  
  All this can occasionally make the game a bit easy, and coupled with your magically regenerating 
 health, it wont take to much to get through the levels, though the occasional overwhelming odds 
 and cheap sniper will serve to slow you down a bit.
  
  One of the major draws to Red Steel is of course slaying your enemies with your sword. The original 
 trailer made this look particularly stunning, and seemed as though that wonderous piece of white 
 plastic would actually replicate your moves on screen. Sadly, in the final product, this isnt 
 the case. The game now instead registers your movements and turns them into one of several pre-programmed 
 animations, which isnt half as exiting as what was originally planned (although it was unlikely 
 something as complicated as actual sword fighting would be implemented this early in the Wiis 
 life) . There are however other problems with this system, chief amongst which is that the Wii doesnt 
 always translate your movements accuratly, which can be problematic later in the game when you 
 want to pull off fancier moves which require moves to be chained together, and this makes pulling 
 some of these of near impossible.
  
  Which brings me onto the other main problem with the sword fighting, and in some ways, the rest 
 of game. Your enemy basically has two strikes, a soft one, which you have to block by flcking your 
 nunchuck, and a hard one, which you can dodge by strafing. If you do either of these right youll 
 have a small window of opertunity to strike your foe. And after youve learned this, you can pretty 
 much breeze through every sword fight in the game, and with the help of the few simple combos things 
 get even easier. This makes the ancient art of samurai sword fighting seem unbelievably clunky 
 and machanical feeling. Doubtless you wont be bothered by this until well into the game, but it 
 does make the sword fights feel quite tiresome, ecspecially on re-runs of the game.
  
  In some ways this can also be applied to the enemy. At first ther behavior seems great, as they 
 take cover and then peek out at you before taking a few shots and returning to cover. But soon 
 youll realise that pretty much every foe in the game does this exact move, meaning you can predict 
 exactly what an enemy will do, and even line your crosshair up so you can pop him in the head the 
 moment he lunges out to fire at you. Even if youre a little slow off the mark you wont have much 
 trouble, considering how awful the enemies are at aiming. Sometimes the enemy will make some really 
 smart moves, and charge at you while youre wounded while others hang back and try to flush you 
 out with grenades or snipe you from a handy piece of cover, but all to often their moves are very 
 predictable.
  
  And yet somehow Red Steel is still an amazingly fun game, despite the dodgy AI, the problematic 
 swordfights, the overall uninspireing weapons and the occasional dull environment showing up now 
 and again. This is undoubtedly thanks to the Wiis pointing prowess, which just makes mowing down 
 your enemies that bit more enjoyable. Considering also the lack of shooters currently available 
 on the Wii, and Red Steel becomes a definate proposition. And theres the multiplayer, which is 
 very standard but good fun for a while, if you're bored. If youre going to buy it your going to 
 have a load of fun, though if youre looking for something inspiring, thought provoking or remotely 
 original, I suggest you look elsewhere 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nolan729
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 14, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  Red Steel's controls work as you probably would imagine them to. You move with the nunchuck, and 
 aim with the Wiimote. Sound simple, but in practice can be frustrating. Aiming can sometimes be 
 jerky and inaccurate, as sometimes the Wii's sensor bar doesn't read you correctly. Due to this 
 inconsistency you sometimes find yourself panicking during firefights. I found that smooth, slow 
 movement of the Wiimote to aim works better than fast movement. Reloading, opening doors, and knocking 
 over cover are handled by flicking the nunchuck downwards. Jumping is handled by the C button and 
 crouching by the Z button. Holding down on the D-pad and a movement of the nunchuck allow you to 
 throw grenades. Perhaps the most complex of Red Steel's controls is the auto-target and zoom mechanics. 
 By pressing A , you can auto-target an enemy, and if you move the Wiimote forward the zoom feature 
 is activated. This may seem awkward at first, but it becomes easier as you get more experience 
 with the game. Still, it would have been nice to be able to zoom without having to auto-target 
 first. As you progress through the game, you gain additional abilities such as slowing down time 
 to attack multiple enemies or disarm an enemy. While this is a nice addition, it never really proves 
 to be useful in combat. But I suppose it depends on your play style. So overall, the gun controls 
 aren't perfect, but promising for future Wii titles. There are plenty of different guns to choose 
 from such as multiple pistols or a powerful sniper rifle. The enemy AI is ok, really only because 
 they find cover and because they often seem to come out of nowhere. Seriously, I was killed several 
 times by enemies who just popped up behind me when I was in the middle of a fight. To tell you 
 the truth, Red Steel kind of felt like a shooting range in some parts because the enemies either 
 stand still or hide behind stuff. The other portion of the game is the swordplay which accounts 
 for about 10-15% of the game. The sword fights occur about two to four times every level, and are 
 completely separate from gun fights. Sword controls are simple; swing the Wiimote to swing the 
 sword, and use the nunchuck to parry. About one-third of the way through the game, you gain a better 
 sword that allows you to do a duel hammer attack by swinging the nunchuck and Wiimote down at the 
 same time. You can defeat an opponent by taking out their heath or breaking their sword. At the 
 end of the battle you are given the choice to kill or spare your defeated enemy. Overall, the sword 
 controls are decent, but not as responsive as you would want. But still, a step up from the swordplay 
 in Twilight Princess. The sword fights themselves aren't too exciting because of this, and they 
 eventually feel repetitive. Still, Ubisoft deserves some credit for trying to mix up the action 
 a bit; even if the Wii was just calling for a sword game.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Red Steel has pretty good graphics for a Wii launch title, but there are some ugly glitches. I 
 noticed that there is actually some great lighting in this game, and the explosions are fun to 
 watch. In fact, the explosions often lead to some hilarious kills. Bodies go flying in the air 
 with rag doll physics to provide some funny moments. Destructible environments are a good thing 
 for destroying enemy cover or taking out multiple enemies by blowing up something. The environments 
 themselves tend to be mostly indoors, and have some variety. You'll be fighting in a car workshop, 
 hotel, and even a spa. The enemies look pretty good, and their appearances are varied. Enemies 
 don't move around too much, but when they do their animations aren't exactly top-notch. As I stated 
 above, there are some ugly spots throughout the game. Areas look almost like they are unfinished, 
 especially in later parts of the game. I remember getting in an elevator and seeing a big, ugly 
 wall of gray that was supposed to be an elevator door. The overall presentation of Red Steel has 
 a bad look to it. Everything from the menu screens to the poorly hand-drawn comic book-like cut-scenes. 
 The game's frame-rate can become horrible when there is a lot going on, and the game pauses when 
 loading the next area. Still, the game maintains a smooth frame-rate most of the game.
  
  Sound: Some people didn't like the music in this game, but I actually thought that it was pretty 
 good. It was composed by the guy who did the music for the Advanced Warfighter games, which has 
 some great music. The voice-overs in this game are just about awful, but there are some decent 
 sound effects here.
  
  Value:
  
  The game takes about 8-10 hours to beat, but after that there isn't much value here. Sure, there 
 is multiplayer, but there is no online and limited options. It would have been nice to see bots 
 or something, but unfortunately there are none. All you get is four maps to play on, no sword fights, 
 and the graphics look just plain bad. So multiplayer here is a joke. This game is a rent at best.
 
  
  Verdict:
  
  Red Steel proves that mediocre FPS plus Wii controls still equals mediocre FPS. Still, I'd like 
 to see a sequel that isn't rushed like Ubisoft did with the first game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CraZySeahorSe
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay Red Steel is actually pretty fun when everything is going alright. The time stop feature 
 is fantastic, the sword fighting is fun, although i usually just shook the Wii remote all over 
 the place as fast as i could... which defeats about 75% of the opponents... but like i said, it's 
 fun. However, glitches just really ruin the gameplay, sometimes you can't turn left, sometimes 
 you can't turn right, sometimes your caught looking at the ceiling spinning around a million miles 
 an hour. On the other hand, multiplayer is very entertaining. The classic James Bond style comes 
 to mind when playing Red Steel multiplayer. Tons of characters, only 3 levels, but adds a lot of 
 value to the game. Once again, the actual shooting and sword fighting, pretty nice.
  
  Graphics This game falls under most of the Wii game graphics that were released on launch date, 
 about a 7.
  
  Sound The sound of the game is the one aspect that highly excels. The music is fantastic, freaking 
 the crap out of you if you're playing at night with all the lights off. Plus, the commentary between 
 AI opponents is fairly entertaining. It's always nice to hear them screaming at you too... right 
 before you freeze time and shoot them. Haha, there was one point in the game where I almost felt 
 bad for those guys... oh well!
  
  Value Multiplayer adds a lot of value, and pretty much all of it. Unless you're bent on getting 
 all As in every level, story mode won't last you too long. Although if you have a few friends and 
 four controllers, you may find yourself playing a little longer than you thought. Red Steel - Wii 
 - 6.5 (10.0) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonMega187
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 10, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Simply
  
  1. Great environments
  2. Decent Controls ( with the exception of some pointer skipping)
  3. Kinda Glitchy (wont really 
 effect gameplay)
  
  This is probably the most underrated game on the wii the controls are great and the environments 
 are nice. However the game's downfall is the various glitches and rudimentary graphics however 
 if u just want a game to pick up and play red steel is for u. All in all this game is worth buying 
 for the now probably reduced price of about 20 dollars so it is definitely worth it.
  
  However this game is totally love it or hate it. If u are a person who cant be held by a game with 
 out life like visuals then i dont know why u bought a wii HAHA. However if u are all about gameplay 
 (or in other words a true wii owner) then u should definitely pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpo360
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 8, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  this game wasa letdown to some people but its just not for everyone. this game's controls are frustrating 
 at first so they need some getting used to maybe because because it's a little high (even if you 
 lowered it) . newbies might tear out their hair and sceam and curse like i did when i played it 
 due to the controls but FPS masters won't have a problem. the plot's pretty basic, it's not the 
 worst or best because it's just the good old Boy saves Girl plot to it so don't expect anything 
 special. the sword fights aren't that bad for FPS and some kids will think it's cool. the furthest 
 i got was LV4 but it's ok.
  
  Conclusion:
  if you're a FPS master or dying for good FPS on your wii, buying it is worth it. otherwise, rent 
 it and if you don't like it, wait 4 metroid prime 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic3456
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jul 30, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the Wii I wanted when I first saw the wii. This was one of my first Wii games along 
 with Wii Sports, Zelda, and Marvel this one was the worst of them all. I hated it but I went through 
 the game and had no fun with it. Anyway I'm not gonna tell you the story cause it suffers there. 
 The graphics aren't terrible, but they are the worst one the wii so far. Gameplay wise it sucks, 
 the shooting is terrible, the sword fighting is decent but doesn't save the game. It sounds terrible 
 really old cheesy japanese sounds and terrible voice acting. There is no fun factor and you're 
 not gonna play it after you finish it, even though you might not want to finish it just because 
 it sucks. My final thoughts are that this game is incredibly bad and was one of the biggest disappointments 
 of my life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freedom_Link
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 6, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - When I 1st started my Gun was shooting the ceiling for 5 minutes for I hadn't a clue. 
 But then I just picked it up and it worked for me!, I loved the way you twist the controller and 
 your gun twists!. The Sword play let it down with you waving aimlessly at the TV.
  
  Graphics - They wern't the best, but yet they wern't crap.
  
  Sound - The Wii Controller's 
 speaker added depth and I thought it was rather sweet
  
  Conclusion - Its abit of fun whist metroid 3 comes to us. Buy it if you want a laugh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lancealot325
Rating: 5.1
Date: Aug 8, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Oh god, this one hurt. When I purchased my Nintendo Wii back in May 2007, I bought Red Steel with 
 it. I was thinking This game is going to look great with my new, shiny Nintendo Wii . Boy, was 
 I proved wrong.
  
  The game starts with you and your girlfriend (who is so corny) going on a date. But apparently, 
 that gets screwed up by some weird guys who just want to capture her and kill you. There's even 
 guys in this game who want slay you with blades and wood. But, you get to shoot them back or slay 
 them with your own katana. That sounds very enticing, doesn't it? Now why do I say this game is 
 atrocious? Here's why: the game had horrible detection activity; turning left to see an enemy took 
 hours. Also, I'd walk beside an enemy, and they wouldn't even notice I'm there. The campaign was 
 sloppy and hard to understand (not that I'd want to) , and the sword fights just weren't fun for 
 me. Quick, nimble swings became large, barbaric swings. Also, the dialogue was just as bad as Resident 
 Evil's dialogue for the Playstation. So, literally, this game was extremely painful (for my mind, 
 eyes and heart) to play. Yes, Red Steel looks very promising, but not when you play it. Simply 
 put, Red Steel has all the tools to make a great game, but Ubisoft didn't take the extra time to 
 make Red Steel a great game. Ouch. Talk about a kick-in-the-face dissappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simpsonsfan2
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  
  Excellent multiplayer
  
  Bad:
  
  Camera angles can be bad at times.
  
  Red Steel is great, and is very fun to play by yourself, or with friends.
  
  The graphics look 
 great for a launch game, and also great for a Wii game. The lighting is great. The levels are greatly 
 detailed, and large.
  
  The sound is great, the wepons are great, and there's a lot of voice acting.
  
  The gameplay 
 is great, the gunfights are fun, as well as the sword fighting. Just walking around the levels 
 looking for your opponents is fun.
  
  In conclusion, Red Steel is a great shooter that all FPS (first person shooter) fans should play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smogtoe
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 3, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  A first person shooter game in a market of intense competition. To start off this review I would 
 like commend the game designers for a job well done. I give them my respect and admiration. Mostly 
 for sheer effort and for the huge amount of pressure on them to deliver a stellar game with a totally 
 new control scheme. A control scheme with a more realistic approach, that mimics real life situations 
 involving numerous objects, weapons, etc. Something the gaming world was frothing at the mouth 
 for (some of us anyway) . I admit that I was fed into the hype that this game was just going to 
 be out of this world because of the new control scheme. Now to be totally honest, but not bash 
 the game entirely, the game did lack the perfection that I was expecting. But truthfully, who am 
 I to judge a game, really! I know nothing of game design, and what goes on behind closed doors. 
 These game designers may very well could have had their backs against the wall, trying to produce 
 a game with supreme results, and of course, the inevitable task of meeting the deadline set before 
 them. To get to the point, the game controls did lack a solid feel, and at times felt erratic. 
 The response time wasn't bad, it was more down to sensitivity issues that proved most troublesome. 
 I noticed on many occasions, the targeting feature felt like the user was over compensating to 
 get the desired results. For example, I would be comfortable in a certain seated position, and 
 literally had to lean in (with arm reaching way out) to get the zoom feature to work properly. 
 The story line of the game seemed somewhat predictable and monotonous, but was easy to follow. 
 There was at times some cheesy clips in the story, but nothing totally outlandish. The overall 
 intensity and experience of the game was satisfying, which ultimately achieved a good portion of 
 the goals intended by the designers. In lieu of the controls, having patience with the learning 
 curve helped make the game more enjoyable in the long run. Overall, the game is worth checking 
 out if you can get past the sensitivity issues in the control scheme. If you are an impatient gamer 
 with learning curves, this game could have you at your wits end. There simply has to be an understanding 
 with finesse, and gracefulness when working a control scheme of this nature. For a gamer not familiar 
 with older FPS games, Red Steel could be a challenging and fun experience. I personally enjoyed 
 the game, and the controls, with exception, to the aspects mentioned. Overall, I would highly recommend 
 renting before buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xunhallowed
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jul 1, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  If you've played any of the true next-gen systems, you know what good graphics are. One look at 
 the rainbow floor in Red Steel should serve as an omen to you. With terrible gunplay, glitchy AI, 
 and spazzy reticules, this game doesn't even deserve a review. This is one of the worst, if not 
 THE worst shooter I have ever played. Oh, wait, that's not right - there's swords too. What's the 
 damn point? If the enemy has a sword, and you have a gun, YOU SHOULD SHOOT HIM! But no, you can't 
 use your damn gun. Frustrating, and overly difficult at some points. DO NOT BUY THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicklap5
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 1, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  i thought it ws a pretty sweet game. the lighting was awsome. and the game play was wicked but 
 the voice acting sucked. i also dont think it was long enough. the graphics are prett good for 
 wii. i dont like the repect points becasue i dont think anyone knows wat they actually do other 
 than give u some of the slow motion stuff which isnt to hard to get at all. sometimes the aimer 
 will mess up and fly bak to the middle and the sword fighting isnt alwasy smooth. but over all 
 the game is very fun and i play it all the time. id recomend renting it and if u like it enough.... 
 well obviously buy it. lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi892
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 1, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  So Red Steel is here. Red Steel was one of the most hyped launch titles for the Wii, and it is 
 not a bad game at all. The controls will feel alien at first but about 40 minutes in they will 
 feel very natural and easy to use.
  
  Gameplay
  Good level design and good controls give gameplay a high score. The controls however for sword 
 fighting do dissapoint slightly which robs it of an even higher score.
  
  Graphics
  You will look in one area and say wow there not bad graphics and then you will move onto the next 
 area and say Goldeneye 64 looked better! So it's a bit touch and go with graphics and some of the 
 areas have a poor frame rate which detracts from the experience badly.
  
  Sound
  Awful voice acting is made up for by a high quality ochestrated soundtrack which adds atmosphere 
 to the game. A big plus.
  
  Value
  Not a must have but not one to be looked over. It is a good game and will last you a good 12 hours 
 for the main game. Multiplayer is a bit shallow but can be a good laugh with mates.
  
  Overall
  If you are a fan of FPS then this is deffinately for you. If not I would not recomend 
 buying it. However saying that, it is a good game and a strong lauch title for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 25, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  when i had wii console first couple of days i had red steel to play with it took me about 3 weeks 
 and a couple days to beat the game and the second time around i beat the whole game in a couple 
 days in a new account.
  its okay of a game to buy if u dont mind swords mixed with guns.
  
  the gameplay is quite hard if ur like me and dont read the controls in the manual and just 
 play the game. the sword moves in mid way in the game are quite hard to master. sometime like me 
 i have my wii in a small room the sword moves wont read half the time try going to options and 
 changing the sensor settings to short moves instead of long. this will help a lot.
  
  the multiplayer is not good it has small maps and weird multiplayer characters.
  throught out 
 the game theres lots of glitches all mostly in singleplayer levels, the creaters should of not 
 rushed the game out so early and fix everything before they released it. one glitch i was attacking 
 the gaisha enemy mini boss and i walked backwards and got stuck inside a car.
  
  overall this game is just fun for people into japanese comics /cause i say this cause the mini 
 vids between levels look like a photo of a comic book page. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesemonkey199
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 1:48 am PT
Review:  When I first heard of red steel I thought not bad, I might get that game ,
  many months later at the wii launch I had surrounded red steel with so many expectations that it 
 couldn't possibly fail me now. The good news was that it didn't fail my expectations, it flew straight 
 past them, and them some. the game was fantastic, it took me about 20 hours to finish, has easy 
 to master controls, a good variety of weapons, and was quite difficult as well.
  
  The graphics and sound aren't the best but the gameplay is fresh and inventive and the storyline 
 is action-packed. The swordplay is good as well but not the games strongest point. you can figure 
 out patterns pretty easily and it eventually becomes the same routine for every fight.
  
  But where this game really shines is the incredible multiplayer mode. there is nothing more satisfying 
 than blasting your mate with a shotgun, or letting loose a grenade to just.... blow stuff up. With 
 4 player split screen and a variety of levels, including a strange mode where you listen to an 
 objective through the speaker and you carry out the the task, the multi mode could rival that of 
 Goldeneye on the N64.
  
  The single player mode is good enough but with an outstanding multiplayer this game is easily the 
 best shooter on Wii and easily one of the best shooters on any platform at the moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrCHUP0N
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  The protagonist's hand tilts just as you tilt your hand in real space, holding your pistol with 
 dat gangsta grip. Where you wave, your gun aims. You pull the B-button trigger on the Wii remote 
 and gunfire erupts on-screen. It all seems so intuitive and natural. But then you try turn to defend 
 yourself against someone coming from your left, and it happens so slowly that it's as if you're 
 in a restrictive neck brace. You try to combat an enemy with your katana blade with graceful, weaving 
 strikes - only to see single, barbaric swings. And every once in awhile, you'll bump into an enemy 
 that doesn't see you, hear you or fire upon you.
  
  This is what it's like to play the rushed mess that is Ubisoft's Red Steel, the much-hyped and 
 commercially successful launch title for Nintendo's Wii.
  
  Red Steel is primarily a first-person shooter with the occasional one-on-one sword duel thrown 
 in for good measure. You assume the role of Scott, bodyguard and now-fianc&eacute; e to the daughter 
 of a Japanese mob boss. What was supposed to be a warm dinner with your lady love, Miyu, and her 
 father Sato, ends up being a betrayal by one of Sato's power-hungry underlings. Miyu is taken hostage, 
 Sato is wounded, and you set off to guide Sato to safety before planning just how you're going 
 to complete your rescue mission. You're given the ultimatum to hand over the Katana Giri - a sword 
 and a symbol of power in Sato's clan - if you're to get Miyu back unharmed. So, Sato blesses you 
 with the blade before he succumbs to his wounds.
  
  There you have it - a hero with a gun and sword in hand, and the perfect excuse for Ubisoft to 
 demonstrate what players can do with the revolutionary Wii remote. Sword fighting and gun slinging 
 certainly sounds like - and starts off as, for the opening hour at least - a fun time and a healthy 
 variety of gameplay. Ultimately, though, neither of these experiences make for a compelling game 
 overall. The core mechanics of shooting your gun seem simple enough, with the on-screen reticule 
 responding to your movement as would a laser pointer in a lecture hall. If you've mastered using 
 the remote to navigate through your Wii channels, you'll have no trouble adjusting to firing weapons. 
 Poking the remote forward allows you to zoom in closer for a better shot, and while this takes 
 a few tries to get used to, it ends up being serviceable. Weapons are the standard mundane fare 
 of pistols, shotguns and assault rifles, and pack a decently satisfying punch when you fire them. 
 You can also lob or roll grenades with the appropriate pantomime using the nunchuk attachment.
 
  
  The problems settle in when you need to free-look to face enemies above you, below you, to the 
 left and to the right of you. Turning about is achieved by jamming your aiming reticule towards 
 the edges of the screen in the direction you wish to look, but the maximum turning speed is way 
 too slow to be of optimal use. At its best, the turning speed is familiar to those used to dual-analog 
 first-person shooters. At its worst, the slow turning will reward you by getting you hit a few 
 times before you can even squeeze off a shot. The game seems to try and compensate for this with 
 enemy placement that borders on light-gun-game simple, but this only serves to take away the all-angles 
 excitement that you normally get in shooters - especially when coupled with other problems that 
 drag the gunplay down.
  
  See, the opposition can be downright dumb. The artificial intelligence was hyped to have enemies 
 knocking over tables to take cover. However, practical experience shows that enemies rarely try 
 to sneak off and flank you, or even close in on you. Usage of cover is spontaneous, as you'll often 
 see gunmen stand out in the open firing at you - even as you speedily sidestep towards them for 
 the close-range shotgun blast. Your opponents don't seem to run from grenades as often as they 
 should - though, since your tossing motions with the nunchuk might mistakenly result in a grenade 
 being rolled along the ground and vice versa, perhaps you won't end up using grenades enough for 
 this to matter.
  
  At least Ubisoft tries to make up for this by introducing some interesting concepts. You eventually 
 gain the ability to freeze the world around you for a limited amount of time. You can then point 
 and click at spots on the screen that you'll instantly fire upon, in succession, once you unfreeze 
 time. Usually this results in almost guaranteed deaths for your assailants; but if you aim for 
 their weapons instead of their heads, you can coerce them into surrendering with a simple on your 
 knees gesture with the remote - earning you Respect Points . You'll encounter situations where 
 you might miss some of their weapons, and it's a little ridiculous to watch guys slowly surrender 
 as their cohorts continue to fire at you. However, almost every group of thugs has a leader, and 
 if you force the leader to surrender the entire crew follows suit. This is the easiest way to pile 
 up the respect while simultaneously saving yourself ammo and frustration.
  
  The respect points you accumulate can be spent at a dojo in between missions to learn special moves 
 for sword combat. Unfortunately, when you consider the basics of sword combat, these moves are 
 almost pointless. The most obvious gripe with the swordplay is that your blade doesn't respond 
 naturally to your movements. Instead, any quick swipe with the remote results in an on-screen slash 
 aimed in the general direction of your motions. Try slashing left and right rapidly and you'll 
 see your sword awkwardly complete successive right-to-left slashes, which appear choppy and not 
 at all in sync with your movements. You can't stab with your sword either - even though your opponents 
 can - further limiting the amount of moves you can perform. You can parry strikes with your shorter 
 sword by swinging your nunchuk, which does involve some tricky timing and at least adding some 
 challenge to sword battles. However, your movement is locked to left-and-right sidestepping around 
 your opponent, whose strikes are all heavily telegraphed.
  
  Furthermore, every sword battle is pre-scripted. You can't whip out your sword whenever you feel 
 like it, and you can't choose to end the duel dishonorably by whipping out your pistol. The ultimate 
 result is less a graceful samurai battle and more a fixed, timing-based, bludgeoning affair that 
 resembles a poor man's Punch-Out!! more than it does Samurai Shodown. At least for a short while, 
 it can be sort of fun to swing around the Wii remote for a few battles before the limitations turn 
 the experience into monotony. And, upon winning a sword battle, you're able to choose to forego 
 striking the killing blow, earning even more respect points for showing mercy.
  
  But are special moves and combos even worth spending the effort to compile respect points for? 
 Pulled off with either a simultaneous swipe of your nunchuk and remote, or a series of individual 
 slashes in alternating directions, these attacks require such precise timing and motions that you'll 
 be hard pressed to successfully hit your enemies during their small windows of vulnerability. You're 
 better off just flailing away with generic swipes. Sure, special moves cause a little more damage 
 and earn you even more respect points - but the aggravation really just isn't worth it. Worse, 
 completing the purchase of these moves at the dojo requires you to learn them by successfully performing 
 them three times. There is no way to cancel your purchase, so with some of the moves being almost 
 impossible to pull off even once, you might find yourself either sitting there for minutes on end 
 or rolling your eyes as you reset your Wii.
  
  Laughable bugs round out the rushed gameplay experience. On several occasions you might find yourself 
 walking in on enemies with their arms outstretched still in their Vitruvian Man positions, a pose 
 used for all 3D character models during the development process. Whether the positioning of these 
 enemies was unfinished or the game forgot to turn them on , the result is just sloppy. In other 
 instances, enemies won't even detect you - even when you're clearly in their line of sight. Yet 
 another bug has an enemy cycle through his ready to fire and idle stance poses until you take a 
 potshot at him. Don't be surprised if an enemy all of a sudden stops firing at you and freezes 
 in his current pose, his weapon completely disappears from the screen, and your shots simply pass 
 through him as through thin air. Another lovely defect results in a schizophrenic aiming reticule, 
 as if the Wii remote's IR sensors are being confused by multiple lights.
  
  The aesthetic presentation seems equally rushed, marked by inconsistencies in both sound and visuals. 
 The music in the game is decent enough, with an eclectic mix of Oriental instruments and urban 
 beats. Yet, the dialogue and voice acting is poor enough to have come from a low-budget Power Rangers 
 rip-off. You're called a Murderer!!! by groups of henchmen trying to gun you down, as if you're 
 the only one with a mean streak. An overweight thug with jheri-curls and gold chains accosts you 
 with a baseball bat, telling you that he'll teach you to respect private property in a voice that 
 can be only described as Keanu Reeves after graduating finishing school. The Keanu Wannabe returns 
 to voice another gangsta thug's line, Give me a good old-fashioned gangster movie! Not this wire-fu 
 crap! You learn your time-freezing ability from a man who tells you that Ninjas can stop time! 
 Really! It's true! as if trying to win a pirates versus ninjas debate. The gems keep coming, and 
 the camp is endless.
  
  The visuals are a mixed bag as well; to be fair, it should be said that the best of the visuals 
 are truly beautiful. They are arguably the best part of the game. Most notable is the dojo environment 
 - while walking the path leading to the entrance, look down and you'll see sharp and detailed ground 
 textures with shining stones composing the walkway. Just inside the dojo doors, look to the right 
 and you'll see martial arts students perform katas through a glass window - complete with convincing 
 glass-ripple effects. In warehouses, you can see the sunlight streaming through the windows, illuminating 
 the floors with subtle hints of light bloom. Look carefully and you'll notice heat waves and depth-of-field 
 effects in some spots. It also bears mentioning that exploding forklifts look cool, basking the 
 screen in a cathartic, orange glow. But all of these fine qualities are juxtaposed against mostly-generic 
 looking enemies, almost all of whom have this strange glossy sheen about them. For every sharp, 
 detailed texture in the game, there must be tens of muddy, splotchy ones. You might also notice 
 that the game is completely devoid of the titular red . Finish this bloodless game and you'll have 
 wielded one of the cleanest katana blades in all of history. Finally, watch out for the glitchy 
 rag-doll physics that leave some enemy corpses twitching uncontrollably - sometimes in mid-air. 
 It's an inconsistent visual experience that, while decent overall, further adds to this game's 
 unpolished nature.
  
  The multiplayer in Red Steel continues the trend of potentially innovative ideas that get mired 
 in clumsy execution. In this case, all of the awkwardness stems from the core gameplay itself. 
 Your simple deathmatch options are enhanced by some intriguing modes that include listening to 
 your Wii remote speaker to pick up missions as if answering your cell phone - never mind that your 
 opponents can clearly hear what's being dictated to you. There's no sword fighting either, which 
 is a blessing or a curse depending on how you see it. On the one hand, it strips multiplayer of 
 one of this game's key features . On the other hand, you can rest assured that you won't be emulating 
 the ridiculous Red Steel advertisements that depict four friends wildly waving their arms about. 
 Whether or not the multiplayer will add any substantial amount of play time to the approximately 
 eight hour single-player campaign depends on how much you can tolerate the game's mechanical shortcomings.
 
  
  Red Steel ends up being an over-hyped disappointment that wastes its potential. There are novel 
 ideas that could shine with proper execution, and given more time, perhaps Ubisoft can craft a 
 much more polished sequel. The game at least looks alright on the whole, and taken in spurts, downing 
 enemies can provide some minimal amount cathartic fun as long as you don't think too hard about 
 its warts. But that's the problem - the issues and sloppy overall execution can simply be too overbearing 
 to be ignored, and ultimately Red Steel is a treasure trove of missed opportunities that is good 
 for a curious rental at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xdude85
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 30, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  At first this was another game I heard was bad but I needed to see for myself if it was good or 
 not. Guess what, it's not a good game.
  
  Plot: You play as a man named Scott, who's fiance has been kidnapped by a Japanese gang, this same 
 gang has also murdered your fiance's father, who was the head of a rival gang. It's now up to you 
 to travel from the United States to Japan and retrieve your fiance before it's too late
  
  Game Play: Gameplay is extremely poor, trying and aiming your gun with the Wii remote is very frustrating 
 and diffucult, the Wii remote also controls the camera and it's very bad, if you accidently move 
 the Wii remote in a place you don't want to go, you'll actually find your character twirling around 
 in circles while five people are shooting at you and you'll have to shake the Wii remote one or 
 two times to get back to normal view. The lock on system is very bad too, press and hold the A 
 button to do it, but it doesn't seem to improve your aiming the slightest bit and it's pretty much 
 useless. To fire your weapon press the B button, to reload shake the nunchuk, press C to jump, 
 press Z to duck and cover. To pick up another weapon, apporch it and shake the nunchuk, you can 
 only carry two weapons at a time. To switch weapons, press the left button and the control pad, 
 when in a sword fight simply swing the Wii remote left or right. To dodge attcks in a sword fight 
 move the nunchuk left or right while pressing the C button at the same time. To open doors or flip 
 tables over for cover, apporch them and again shake the nunchuk.
  
  Graphics: One of the good parts in this game, levels, people, and weapons have great detail.
 
  
  Sound: Again one of the few strong points in the game, sound effects and voice acting is all good.
 
  
  Overall a disappointing game with poor controls and a messed up camera. The whole concept and idea 
 sounded great, but all in all this game disappointed lots of first-person shooter fans big time. 
 This game isn't worth the money, so go try out a different game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liquidcontra
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 19, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Defiantly one of the pretty wii games that at first made you want it (I did) . But when played I 
 noticed it glitches like crazy. Not to mention that the turning speed was slow and started almost 
 near the end of the TV. Yet the visuals were great for a wii game. For the exception of the people 
 having a white lineout line. Also the cut senses were in a number 13 style with no added animation. 
 so if you very desperate for a game that is not involved with wwII or terrible A I. then pick up 
 or better yet rent red steel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto703
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 17, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  This game is the Wii's first outing into the world of FPS. You think because of the pinpoint accuracy 
 of the Wii it would be a smash hit. Well to me it is average. The gameplay will stress you out 
 at times when you are trying to shoot someone and you are looking in circles. Luckily it has a 
 rebounding health meter or you would die as soon as you start the game up. Some of the gesters 
 like throwing grenades work. However they will be nowhere where you want it to go unless you are 
 throwin it at the floor. Also the sword battles are thrown in without notice and the controls don't 
 work for the sword either. They give you strategies but you will just swing it around like a mad 
 man. The graphics are pretty good and the sound is great. It will last you for maybe 10 hours. 
 This is a game that could have been great but instead was rushed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_War_Chief
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jun 16, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Two words describe this. Disappointment supreme. Actually, scrap that. It was just plain horrific. 
 Let's start somewhere easy though. The graphics. It's the only redeeming factor in that waste of 
 space. They look pretty good. Nice effects, and I had no problem with them. The textures look fine, 
 and I suffered little to no slowdown. But this is where good parts go up to.
  
  Gameplay... was just terrible. Horrific almost. The control for one was awful. I know the Wii was 
 only just out, but come on. Even Wii Sports had better controls, and you didn't even control much 
 of it! I couldn't turn left fast without my aimer going to either the ceiling or the floor. And 
 in a game like that, you need to be able to turn fast. I have no problems with any other game on 
 Wii, even at the time of playing.
  
  The story of the game was pretty sub-par. Bland, been there-done that type thing. To be honest, 
 I'm not there for the story. I'm there for the shooting and action, so I didn't mark it down on 
 story. But the fact remains that the controls are horrid. The music of the game isn't very good 
 either. This does come down to preference, but I don't like sticking in popular music tracks in 
 a game. A game needs really unique music. And the sounds were mediocre. Gun shot type sounds were 
 OK, but the speech of the people was just silly. Cringeworthy, and often enemies repeated insults 
 several times in a row!
  
  To be honest, nothing kept me coming back to it. I can't remember if you got medals for completing 
 it in a time, but that's all it had I think. The multiplayer was bland, nothing like classic Perfect 
 Dark, Goldeneye, or Timesplitters 2. And why did it not have recoil? A minor point, but still... 
 And the game was pretty hard. I think the controls contributed mostly to this though. To be honest, 
 I couldn't believe the hype. I got it for &pound;40, and sold it for &pound;20. The latter was 
 above it's value, let alone the former!
  
  Don't get this, please. It's so horrible that it makes me sick. I just had to warn anyone else 
 who might see all the hype and be sucked in to the danger awaiting them! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: payne6705
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 13, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  the game red steel is trying to take a whack at FPS for the Wii the game itself if it wasn't for 
 the Wii would be a less than average FPS but the controls save this game let me explain the game's 
 graphics are nicely done but it could b better most of the environment is destructible or be used 
 as a shield for example you see a table a simple movement of the nunchuk and the table is on its 
 side and you duck behind it. also if you get hit in the game all you do is sit and wait and your 
 health bar goes straight up. (like in COD 2 and 3) now the A. I. well its kinda hard to say sometimes 
 the A. I. is smart at moments and other times just plain dumb on example is that i shot all of the 
 men but one that last one actually ran away to another room where there were more guys to kill 
 yet at other times some people actually run at me while im shooting and sometimes one solider doesn't 
 know anything and just stands there the whole time while everyone around him is having a shootout. 
 now finally the controls they are simple you use the remote to look around and aim while the nunchuk 
 is to move reload use, crouch, jump the game can be buggy at times with the controls like not shooting 
 or thinking i want to pick up a gun while i' m trying to open a door and the sword play goes in 
 and out they teach you moves as you progress but for some reason you do the movements right and 
 the swords stutter and won't do the attack all in all this game is fun because of the controller 
 and destructible environment and sometimes the sword play if your a hardcore FPS guy i recommend 
 to rent if your looking for fun FPS pick it up if you give the game a chance there is a possible 
 fun factor for what its worth 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattZ2006
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 13, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Red steel was, perhaps, the most hyped shooter for the Wii at its release. So, needless to say, 
 I was excited when I first received it for Christmas. The first level was like heaven for me, all 
 I had ever wanted to do was shoot gangsters. The gun controlled well for me while I was playing, 
 but pushing my arm out to zoom in was awkward for me. It actually made my aim worse, the cursor 
 twitching as my muscles struggled to hold the wii-mote straight; the only other way was just as 
 awkward, forcing me to keep my arm parallel to my body, so I just stopped zooming in. The game 
 was even more fun when I received my sword, the slices and dodges and blocks worked perfectly. 
 It was awesome! But, then I got to the story. It seemed like some 7th grade Japanese-obsessed anime 
 freak's story for English, with only the most obvious of twists. As you are taken through the story, 
 you are accompanied by the mightiest of all media, The Slideshow! (cue triumphant music) The production 
 team's budget most have allotted massive amounts of money for this section, as moving virtual pictures 
 takes the most cutting edge technology to create. The visuals in the game were decent compared 
 to these, but I had some clipping issues, most notably bullets flying through solid walls. There 
 were also frame-rate issues when six enemies were shooting at you, or you were near a plane readying 
 for takeoff. So I was in no way impressed, or even pleased by the graphics. The audio was, to say 
 the least, trite crap. It had the same music in most gunfights, the same music in many swordfights, 
 and for the most part, absolutely nothing in between. There were some occasions where j-pop would 
 play and I would be quite pleased with the departure from the norm. The sound effects were okay, 
 for the most part, no special effort put into distinct gun sounds, unlike CoD. The wiimote sounds 
 also were very grainy and I just turned the volume down. All in all, Red Steel is a mediocre game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 973849
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 12, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Ok now come on. Red steel has been taking an unfair beating by most critical reviews and it is 
 just insane. Red Steel may indeed have its flaws, but do a couple lousy sword fights and glitchy 
 graphics really turn the tide of a game? The use of the wii-remote in this game is amazing. I never 
 have trouble picking things up and reloading with the nunchuk like people have said they had. The 
 pure action in this game is fun and rarely gets old. The only part of the game i have been critical 
 over is the sword fights. They are just plain stupid. Yes in the end of the game the fight do get 
 much harder and take more skill, but that doesnt necessarily make them fun . It doesnt really reel 
 like you or your opponent are any kind of skilled samurai or skilled swordsman. It just feels like 
 a pain and and can make your arm sore. This game may take you 10- 15 hours but it is amazing how 
 fun it is to repeat missions. To sum it all up this game is amazingly fun with loads of action 
 with the occasional graphic flaw to take away from some truely beautiful scenes. I loved this game 
 and if your a gamer looking or a good first person shooter, with i forgot to mention great sound, 
 and dont mind some flaws that dont take away from the gameplay. Red steel is right for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shillster89
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 11, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  I thought Red Steel had an enjoyable story mode although I didn't really like the ending that much. 
 I thought it would have been better if they had real cutscenes instead of pictures in between missions 
 because it just kind of felt like the developers didn't put as much of an effort into it. The graphics 
 were alright especially for a launch game but there were some bugs and glitches. Multiplayer was 
 good with 3-4 players but the levels were fairly small and if it was only 2 players it got quite 
 boring. I felt that the controls were done pretty well and I liked the gun as well as sword gameplay. 
 The sword fights got pretty predictable and they weren't too hard but it was cool how you could 
 unlock different moves. over-all I would recommend to rent this game first and if you look it then 
 you should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keir21
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 10, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  This was the first game i played on the Wii, I nearly threw my remote on the floor in frustration. 
 Do not get me wrong this game is ok but the developers didnt take the time or effort to perfect 
 it.
  
  Graphics: They are really good bright and colourful and nice explosions. Some small details are 
 really let down by the lack of effort. Gameplay: Nice idea but not used to its full potential. 
 The controlling in this is so hard not enough time was taken to perfect it. The game is repetetive 
 and boring practically every mission is exactly the same. The sword is really fun but you cannot 
 use it whenever you want which really is irratating. This gameplay is unbelievabley lazy and has 
 let the entire game down. This is nothing but a broken leg to the game.
  
  Sound: Nice sounds of guns but again repetetive some of the music is nice but nothing big.
  
 
  Physics/realism: I guess its pretty good things smash when shot at but not everything. Its good 
 i guess.
  
  Overall: A game is superb graphics and decent sound which is completely let down by its horrible 
 horrible gameplay. Avoid like the plague. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blasterboy56
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 10, 2007 5:31 am PT
Review:  meh, thats how i can sum up red steel in one word the gunplay is pretty good to begin with but 
 after a while it gets a bit tedious, the same goes for the sword fighting, the dumbest thing about 
 the sword fighting is the fact that really you could just pull out a gun and shoot them indiana 
 jones style.
  
  so in all red steel is not a bad game, but neither is it a great game i would rent it first and 
 wait untill you see it going cheap.
  it is by no means the best fps game on wii so far (call of duty 3 would have to take that title) 
 but its still a good game aside form some glitches (i got stuck spining around inside a car engine 
 at one point)
  
  I hope this review along with others has helped you make up your mind about red steel, if not, read 
 some more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordan1985221
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 8, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because it was the better to choose out of two shooters (the other being Farcry) , 
 I have to admit I'm a fan of Japanese films and culture and this does give a nice view into how 
 Japan looks even though there really isn't Yakuza gangsters around every corner. Visually this 
 game is great the effects are nice with the glint of steel against steel while in a sword fight 
 or the bits of paper flying about after unloading a UZi magazine into boxes that your enemies are 
 using as cover. The Gameplay is fun and engaging it isn't the best first person shooter I've played 
 but it defendly isn't the worst, the Wii remote gives you a new freedom that I and most of my friends 
 have never had apart from a similar style to the arcades, the Wii remote gives you a feeling you 
 are in the action from the smallest thing like the rumble and motion sensitive to the Wii remote 
 ringing like a mobile phone (which freaked me and all my friends who have played it) . I say if 
 you have a Wii, a fan of first person shooters or both get the only good on on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arry_ng3
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 6, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  I bought Call Of Duty 3 first of all, because it got better reviews than Red Steel, but it was 
 simply -crap- so i bought a flying game instead, Heat seeker... that was horrible aswel so i thought 
 i'd ignore everybodys reviews and try it out for my self, believe it or not i cant come off it!
 
  
  yeah the controls are rediculesly hard to control to start with, but you get used to it.
  
 
  you can throw grenades, over head throw with nc for a far throw, under arm with nc to roll the 
 grenade. also sword fights are quite cool, they're not 100% synced so the swored moves where you 
 move the Wii-Mote but that doesnt really matter cus u got alot of other stuff to think about, blocking, 
 dodgin ect.
  
  Theres also a 'stop time' thing you can do which is very very nice, you simply press A and C and 
 time will stop for a few seconds which gives you enough time to select which enemies to shoot... 
 you can shoot guns out of peoples hands aswel then do a gesture with your Wii-mote as if you're 
 pointing saying get down , and they will. Also when you aim, if you move your Wii-Mote closer to 
 the screen the gun will zoom in more.
  
  Graphics are REALLY nice, screen shots dont do any justice for the game, the graphics are reallly 
 pretty, and the explotions are quite realistic... also alot of other simple things have been put 
 in, real nice things aswel for example, if you shoot a wall and its thin, and sun light is on the 
 other side of it, you can see the sun light shine through the bullet hole. Sounds are real nice 
 aswel, reload sound coming through your Wii-mote is a bonus.
  
  multiplayer is what people say, crap.
  
  it seems like its just been plonked in the game to 
 fill space, if they had a Co-op that would, be unexplainable.
  
  Pros +
  
  nice graphics
  nice sounds
  8/10 story line
  aiming / zoom thing
  
  Cons -
  
  Cant 
 skip movie scenes, even after you've watched them.
  The Reviews
  Multiplayer
  
  I give the game 9/10 the game is very under-rated 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crithon
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 2, 2007 2:13 am PT
Review:  Being a launch titles has its benefits. Majority of the time there are considerably low standards 
 but its quirky enough to start up the audiences perception of the console. A lot of the times 
 simple games get released and then later down the line a more fleshed out game comes along and 
 really solves all the problems from the preceding genre game. Ubisofts premier FPS title with 
 the Wii just seems to slide into these low standards. Red Steel comes off quickly as a bad PG-13 
 action film instead of a dark revenge plot in the Japanese underworld of the Yakuza. Youre a typical 
 white guy whose Yakuza daughter is kidnapped and then makes you into a key member of his inner 
 circle of head Yakuza bosses. So you progress by doing missions for each of the bosses until you 
 find the one member who betrayed the Yakuza clan. The game is told through brief vignette 2D 2D 
 non-animated story boards, and characters talking directly to the camera. The game does very little 
 to explain Yakuza life, instead it does billions of stereotypes and tired clich&eacute; s. The story 
 has no real authenticity or charm to even be remembered; in fact its worth watching to laugh at. 
 Being the first FPS shooter on the Wii is pretty much a blessing and a curse. Pretty much the main 
 selling point is check out how the UbiSoft designed a game with the Wiimote in mind. Simply the 
 Wii-mote and sensor bar is used to shoot while the analog controller is used for movement. This 
 method isnt easy to use; in fact its actually quite tiring holding the wii-mote up to the center 
 the screen at all times. There is auto aiming to help, but compared to WiiSports or Zelda this 
 game is by no means casual, in fact its actually very complicated. Practically every button on 
 the controls is used and all of them have multiple methods. A simple jerk of the nunchucks picks 
 up a gun and replaces another gun but it also registers as opening context sensitive doors, flips 
 over tables, slashes guys with a melee attacks, and throws a grenade across the room... And pretty 
 much all these motions are unreliable instead of a simple button press. The shooting gameplay isnt 
 half bad, Enemies will use cover, try to flush you out, you can frighten them to the point where 
 they will give up, you can stop time to pin point the limbs or blow their weapons out of their 
 hands, destructible environments In fact Red Steel is a pretty standard FPS shooter by todays 
 standards, the problem starts immediately that you will often find enemies just running to the 
 wall or just aimlessly standing there waiting for you to trigger and event. I also learned through 
 this game that thin plastic curtains that can actually block bullets. Just a simple play though 
 of the game you will run into dozens of problems with the untested gameplay. The shooting portions 
 are actually not half bad if you can manage all the hurdles of the complicated controls, but its 
 the sword fighting it gets terrible. The controls are unresponsive pretty much half the time while 
 there is more moves to learn but actually its best to just swing wildly to win all the sword fights. 
 There is never any finesse to the controls instead its a long dragged out fights where you are 
 only doing a pixel of damage, your better off getting a feather duster to do more damage then red 
 steels katannas. There are moments where red steel is actually an exciting visceral shooter where 
 debris, rubble and your very own cover gets destroyed. There is an effective art direction to give 
 it a glowing Smokey action film sense to it. All of this is pretty effects until the game is in 
 action the game looks like a mediocre N64 FPS. There are muddy textures, glitches, lack of lip 
 syncing, and everyone has a rim light that makes everyone look plastic. The musical score is actually 
 very impressive. Thundering Japanese drums, rousing chores and every now and then a Jpop song is 
 thrown in the mix. If there is really a highlight to the presentation is the audio aspect.
  
  Overall Red Steel gets considerable attention because its worth a peak. By no means is this 
 up to par with Max Payne or even a simple N64 video game. The shooting is quite interesting, the 
 novelty is worth to laugh at, but it crosses the border of being broken. Like I said its all novelty, 
 its a lot like enjoying a Jean Claude VanDamme film. You know hes a terrible actor, the plot 
 is rubbish, the production is bottom of the barrel but you still enjoy laughing at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MallratsJaySB
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 2, 2007 12:41 am PT
Review:  Besides Wii Sports, Red Steel is the very first game I've played on the Wii. After reading a lot 
 of rather negative reviews on this game, I wasn't expecting it to be very good, but I bought it 
 anyway. Luckily, I found the game to be fairly fun and engaging. It's definitely not perfect, but 
 it's a promising start for first person shooters on the Wii and it shows just how amazing a game 
 like this would be with some incredibly smart and talented people at the helm.
  
  The story goes something like this. You and your girlfriend are on your way to meet her father 
 and ask his permission for his daughter's hand in marriage. Well her father happens to be the overlord 
 of the Yakuza and an opposing gang busts in, kidnaps her, and eventually kills her father. There's 
 a sword named the Katana Giri that you must protect for reasons you'll find out later in the game. 
 The story never reaches any kind of high point in it's storytelling and not much of it is interesting 
 in the least sense.
  
  The gameplay is an interesting concoction for a game like this. In most FPS's nowadays, you control 
 the movement of your character with two thumbsticks. The left one usually moves the character forward, 
 backward, and side to side while the right one usually looks up and down and turns. Since there 
 aren't two thumbsticks, Ubisoft implemented an interesting control scheme for turning. The nunchuk 
 still does the moving that the left thumbstick would usually do, but to turn you have to move the 
 Wii remote left and right. Your aiming reticule is always on screen as a white dot and moving it 
 to the edge of the screen makes the player turn. At first, this is very difficult to do because 
 it's just so different than other games. Over time though it gets much easier and you will find 
 yourself getting comfortable with what you're doing. It's also somewhat difficult to aim in this 
 game. Using a mouse has always been the easiest and most fluid way to aim when playing video games 
 and the Wii remote, although not quite as good, works almost exactly like that. Your hand will 
 definitely be somewhat shaky when you start the game and it will take some time to control yourself, 
 but eventually you'll be pulling off head shots left and right.
  
  Almost everything in this game is controlled by motion sensing. Outside of movement and actually 
 pulling the trigger, you will be utilizing the Wii remote to open doors, heave or roll grenades, 
 reload, sword fight, zoom, and even shake your head yes or no. Most of these work exactly like 
 you'd think. To shake your head yes or no, you move the remote up and down or left to right. To 
 throw a grenade, you make a throwing motion and to roll one, you make an underhand motion. Some 
 motions are very easy -- reloading and opening doors comes to mind -- that usually only consist 
 of a simple flick of the wrist up or down.
  
  Eventually, you'll learn that you can stop time to aim and take down your enemies. By holding the 
 A button and moving the Wii remote forward quickly or pressing the C button, time will stop and 
 you can tag designated targets that you will shoot once you release the buttons. But instead of 
 popping off head shots, you can also aim at their guns, disarm them, and make them give up. Sometimes, 
 there is a leader in the room and if you make him surrender, the rest of his minions surrender 
 as well. It's a nice addition to the gameplay and it certainly comes in to play time and time again, 
 but sometimes it feels a bit off and it won't tag your target which means wasted energy and bullets.
 
  
  Honestly, I can't complain too much with the controls for the most part. Most of it takes some 
 time to get used to (aiming, throwing grenades) , but the only thing that I absolutely hate in this 
 game are the sword fights. There are plenty of moves that you'll learn throughout the course of 
 the game that will help you with your one on one sword combat, but most of them are pretty hard 
 to pull off. Unless your motion with the Wii remote is near perfect, the game won't register what 
 you did and the combo you were trying to pull off fades. You'll probably just resort to finding 
 a cheap and easy way to defeat your enemies (which is very easy to figure out if you try) and not 
 worry about the combos. To defend yourself you can dodge or block his attack. If you block the 
 attack at the exact right moment, it will stun your opponent for a very brief time where you can 
 then counter attack. It's a decent start, but it's just not fine tuned enough to be much fun.
 
  
  Like I said, I can't complain all that much with the controls because I found that they work perfectly 
 fine most of the time. But that certainly doesn't make this game amazing. Besides the controls, 
 there is absolutely nothing about this game that is genuinely unique, interesting, or impressive. 
 Every single level in this game feels like it was pulled out of a FPS made 8 years ago. It has 
 to be most generic, repetitive, and boring game that I've played in years, but it's pulled through 
 it's mediocrity because of it's unique controls. Undoubtedly, if this game came out later in the 
 Wii lifecycle after other better FPS's, I wouldn't have enjoyed this game nearly as much and my 
 score would be much lower. Since it was a launch game and it's my first purchased game, it's passable, 
 but it doesn't hide the fact that the game tries to play up it's controls as it's strength while 
 putting nearly everything else on the back burner.
  
  The graphics are not very good. I'm well aware that the Wii isn't as powerful as the Xbox 360 or 
 PS3, but I'm also well aware that the Wii is capable of much more than this. Weird animations, 
 bad lighting, scarce detail, and ugly characters abound, I am thoroughly unimpressed with Red Steel's 
 graphics. Adding salt to the wound, the cutscenes consist of still pictures portraying the action 
 at hand. These are so bad and laughable that it becomes unbearable. The story is clich&eacute; 
 and boring, but moving cutscenes have helped to spice things up just a little bit. Think of it 
 like this. If you had a cardboard cut-out of a van/person/anything mobile and slid it across a 
 picture of a street and building, you would essentially have the idea of how these cutscenes work. 
 They're just not good.
  
  The sound is also rather bad. The guns don't sound nearly as powerful as they should which is a 
 sad thing since this whole game is centered around gun play. The sword fights sound decent enough. 
 The clinks and clangs that happen when blocking sound pretty good. But the worst part is easily 
 the voice acting. This game should get an award for having some of the worst voice acting I've 
 ever heard. Almost everybody in this game is Asian (makes sense doesn't it?) , but it doesn't sound 
 like every voice actor is. It's just too inconsistent. Some characters sound like Americans trying 
 to make an Asian accent and it sounds silly, which isn't only degrading to the Asian community, 
 it's also totally hilarious. The ones that do sound like they're from an Asian country sound like 
 they have no voice acting experience whatsoever. It's one of those rare cases where it's so bad 
 that it's good.
  
  Let's get one thing straight. Red Steel is completely unremarkable. If it had been released on 
 any other system, this game would be downright terrible. The generic levels, uninteresting characters, 
 atrocious voice acting (seriously, it's just so bad) , trite story, and subpar graphics would easily 
 make this game a bottom of the bargain bin game on any other system. But due to the Wii's unique 
 way of playing games, Red Steel manages to pull through with some interesting ways of shooting, 
 sword fighting, and lobbing grenades. If you own a Wii and want to play a game that shows promise 
 for future FPS titles on the system, then Red Steel is a game that you need to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddman009
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jun 1, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  Red Steel
  
  
  
  Pros : +A unique way of FPS. +Great explosions and everything is destructible.
  
  Cons : -Controls 
 for shooting and swordplay are terrible. -The graphics arent good at all.
  
  
  The Plot: N/A
  
  Graphics: All though the Wii isnt based on graphical power the graphics for 
 Red Steel are horrible for what the Wii can do. Zelda for example has great graphics for the Wii 
 and has a good art style that I love but Red Steel on the other hand looks like a dubbed down GameCube 
 game. Most of the textures are blotchy and bad to look at and the character modeling isnt great 
 ether. The sceneries are ugly and blocky when looking at and the characters look blocky and just 
 plain bad.
  
  Controls: The controls arent bad when it comes to the shooting. Its some of the best on the Wii 
 for a launch title. Its easy to move around and shoot at but can seem hard at first to do. The 
 only reason this scored so low is because of the swordplay; it just wasnt what it was told to 
 be like. The sword movements are choppy and poorly done. The animations of it are fairly good but 
 not good enough to get a higher score.
  
  Sound: The audio for Red Steel is about average because of the horrible VO that was put in. The 
 VO is horribly done with corny dialog and just bad actors. Most of the time it seems like its 
 a comedy when its supposes to be serious.
  
  Fun::The fun level drops a lot when it comes to this game. With crappy sword fighting, some what 
 descent shooting and a below average multiplier; this game isnt that fun at all. Although it can 
 have its fun moments but there not very often and not for very long.
  
  Replay:: the replay is problem the best part. Why cause u dont have to play it anymore that why. 
 With poor AI and crappie level designs the game just isnt that great to replay. There is nothing 
 new to do and you will probably get board of it fast.
  
  Over all:: If your looking for a FPS for the Wii thats somewhat good then here you go but i would 
 make this a rental only from the lack of fun in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imacheater2k5
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 28, 2007 10:34 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. I don't care what everyone else says, I think the graphics are good too. 
 There's just three glaring problems that bog this game down:
  
  1.) Bugs: You will often encounter some of the worst AI ever seen, but other times encounter very 
 smart AI, or, worst, AI that starts smart, but goes Braindead. The enemies in the game aren't always 
 dumb, they'll often use cover efficiently, but they tend to just let you shoot them after the come 
 out of hiding, never thinking to hide again. Not to mention that you'll also find some enemies 
 who have their arms straight out in the air that don't do a thing to attack you, almost as if the 
 game were a beta.
  
  2.) Voice Acting: Though the voice acting on this game is good for some characters, others are 
 unintentionally laugh out loud funny. There are many people speaking english in the game who carry 
 very thick japanese accents. Also, the enemies in the game are awful when they talk. THEY attempt 
 to kill you, so when you kill one of them they say things like Killer! or Stop, you bastard! as 
 if you were the villain.
  
  3.) Cruddy Multiplayer: One of the most innovative (yet very odd) features of this game is the 
 swordfights. So, why are there no ways to Duel each other with your blades in Multiplay? That would 
 probably boost this game's rating a whole point if it were there. Also, where's our Co-Op? It's 
 a staple of FPS games nowadays to have a Co-Op campaign, and Red Steel completely skips this. The 
 only good multiplayer you'll get out of this game is some Four-Player FFA shoot-em' up action.
 
  
  Overall, this game could have been better, and with a month or two more of development could have 
 wowed people. But, sadly, this game is released and there isn't any changing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brazenhead
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 25, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  Red Steel has received a number of mixed reviews from critics and gamers alike and upon playing 
 it's easy to see why; the game does have a few niggles that some people may find unforgiveable. 
 You'll find that beneath these, however, there's a game with plenty of memorable moments, and as 
 far as a launch title is concerned, it certainly shows potential.
  The game itself is controlled via the remote and nunchuck combined, with the nunchuck's analog 
 stick providing movement and the remote acting as your aim. To those more accustomed to the FPS, 
 the remote's aiming system may prove to be a tad confusing; where the mouse-driven FPSs have your 
 cursor stay constantly in the middle of the screen, providing your character with a constant rotation, 
 Red Steel's cursor moves freely around the screen, with rotation only occuring once it reaches 
 the edges of the screen. It's refreshing that a console game should provide this much aiming ability 
 outside of the inferior analog stick scheme, but having a constantly drifting cursor takes some 
 getting used to. With a bit of practice, however, you'll find that it's actually very involving 
 - if you miss an enemy, rather than having to rotate in his general direction, simply twist or 
 move your hand to the side and fire a bullet - highly satisfying stuff. Seeing your character's 
 on-screen hand emulating this movement is also highly pleasant, and means that for the first time 
 in a FPS, we're not just moving the character but his hand and gun movements as well. Red Steel's 
 controls also allow for some interesting one-on-one sword fighting battles. These can be great 
 fun; snapping the nunchuck to the side at the right moment in order to stun an enemy, only to unleash 
 all manner of sharp-edged fury on him with the remote is, again, very satisfying.... but the dexterity 
 and steady hand needed to pull off some of the more complex attacks may have you throwing the remote 
 onto the floor and wondering if there's even any point practicing them. The controls for Red Steel 
 show great potential, but could have done with some fine-tuning, particularly given that it's a 
 whole new control method for gamers both new and old. It's worth noting too, that the cursor can 
 glitch out sometimes and judder about - strangely, this is rectified by turning the volume on your 
 wii remote to off (?) so although it can be rectified, it's a blatant technical fault that is actually 
 quite unforgiveable.
  The graphics have come under some scrutiny too, and admittedly could have been more - textures 
 are quite ugly, and the frame-rate drops should not occur on a console that can do graphics that 
 are much better and run much smoother. On the flipside, however, some of the outdoor environments 
 are beautiful and actually quite stylised - the glaring sun and bright coloured skies illumate 
 the scenery and create an atmosphere that is both beautiful and appropriate for a game based on 
 Eastern pinciples. It's not afraid to throw curveballs at you either - nothing in the game can 
 compare to the confusing madness that is the infamous Bunny level - you're truly unlikely to predict 
 such an obscure and memorable level in a game. Perhaps on the more consistent end of the graphics 
 scale, the cut-scenes are presented in a strange cardboard cut-out design where the movements are 
 fairly static - perhaps due to the game being rush-released for the Wi's launch, but even so - 
 they do hold a certain charm and again, give the game a sense of style. The style holds up very 
 well in the sound department too - while admittedly the voice acting is pretty damn awful (Americans 
 just CANNOT do the Japanese acent) , the music has a very action movie-esque approach - with slow, 
 stirring oriental music chiming as you sneak behind an enemy suddenly shooting to life with metal 
 guitars and heavy drum loops as he discovers you and lets loose an unforgiving volley of uzi bullets 
 in your direction - exciting stuff.
  So, Red Steel has glaring pros and cons in all departments, and perhaps this is why it receives 
 a number of mixed reviews. It's up to the gamer to decide which of these matter the most, and while 
 some of the flaws could easily have been avoided, they don't tend to distract to much from the 
 overall experience and those that are prepared to give the game a chance will find an original 
 game with plenty to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wandie2002
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 24, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  I bought the game and forced myself not to play to much because i don't want to finish it that 
 soon. Its a good game. Yes controls are a bit tough when you get the hang of it, Its really a good 
 game. Sound track is good, Graphics are good but storyline, They should have put extra attention there. 
 It made me feel like a gun shooting sword fighting gangsters. The commercials did spice it up a 
 notch but thats marketing. I would recommend it but better go when its on budget. To be honest the 
 rating was a little to harsh. I have no regrets buying the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbond904
Rating: 4.9
Date: May 24, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  This game has a horrid storyline and terrible A. I. The levels are lame except for the evil bunny 
 level. It's hard to find a friend who won't cry because the controls are to hard, or a friend who 
 can even hold the controller still to get a headshot. NOTE: Dont buy game because it looked good 
 on the commercials!!!!! The game would be hard to control for most people (not for me because I 
 am good with my hands) , the sword fighting is a drag because the sword doesn't.... follow your 
 hand i quess. it operates by swingin the remote up, down side to side and in angles. It has some 
 veriety though. For instance you hold Z button and swing both hands sometimes. The games A. I is 
 so stupid I actually walk up to one and kneel in front of him and it takes him 3 shots to finaly 
 hit me. The guns are a dumb except for the sniper and I don't care for the gltches in the game. 
 but the game offers good graphics and a fun gameplay. Just don't by this game for the storyline 
 or for multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireemblemrocks
Rating: 8
Date: May 24, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  i was a little disapointed with all the hype saying that Red Steel would be a great game and all 
 i expected it a little better altough not much better
  
  Good game just the camera is desperating gameplay takes a long time to fully dominate it but sound 
 is really really great while graphics are moreless the story is entertaining but really boring 
 and exsasperating after a while but personally loven gameplay just that is a little difficult to 
 learn i really regret nothing eas worth playing is a good game without much replaiying value since 
 you know its the same thing all over again it really takes you inside the story (which by the way 
 dosen't have much substance its a little shallow) since gameplay is more realistic, what is really 
 bad about the gameplay as i said before is the camera and that its basically all the same i recomend 
 you take your time learning and when you already learn it completly you'll see its addicting, slashing 
 with the wii control is very fun multiplayer is great all the stages to play are good shooting 
 style stages for multiplayer.
  Overall altough gamespot gave the game 5.5 i really recommend it you'll pass a good time im not 
 saying its the best game but its worth playing it altough i recommend to rent it first to see if 
 you like it since its not the best game, if you dont like at all yakuza stories with slashing shooting 
 and killing rent it first dont buy it at any cost or simply dont play it but its a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonutTrooper
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 21, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  I learned to get pretty good at the aiming and swordfighting. However, I think the problem with 
 the dev team is that the same happened, and the forgot that the controls for aiming are insanely 
 difficult and take a while to master. There's also a glitch where if you aim too far left the aim 
 reverts back to the lower right corner of the screen. However, once you learn how to use the controls 
 effeciently, you can pretty much pwn anyone you see (I only use pwn to describe a select few games) .
 
  I did have a little problem personally with the faces of people being amorphous as you look at 
 them, especially on a 1080p tv with no component cables. The soundtrack is third only to Ace Combat 
 and Halo, and I download it THE SECOND I heard about it on iTunes. I recommend if you don't even 
 like the game at all, get the soundtrack, no matter what. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daviniel
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 17, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel the little fps that could. Many reviewers cited red steel as one one of the worst video 
 games avilable for wii owners at lauch. However, now 5 months after the wii was released I thougt 
 about renting the game to see if it actually sucked that badly. So, did it suck? Not really. Although 
 getting the hang of the controls was by no means any easy task, and at the beginning of the game 
 you cant help but belive youre not gonna enjoy this game at all; you do actually,... enjoy it. 
 Although it took me more than an hour to actually get comfortable with the controls it payed off 
 in the end. Red steel is essentally 11-12 hours long and it is basically a good game if compared 
 to other shooters. The graphics in the game dont really let down, exept for a few places, and overall 
 I recomend you at least rent this game it wont dissapiont you that badly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oakfront
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 16, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  At first , i thought 'Damn , im never going to get these controls right' Yet with time and patience 
 , i did and really started enjoying this game
  
  The gameplay as ive already described , shows how a Wii-Shooter should be done for future Shoot-'um-ups! 
 coming out for the Wii. Graphics , Sound and Value for money are all great.
  
  Overall , ive gave Red Steel 8.5 due to its solid gameplay and addictive controls which grow on 
 you overtime as you get better and better whilst progressing through this fun and addictive game 
 , also the sword mode is addictive once you've got the hang of it ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caossbr
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 15, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  its a good game ,some weapons use the wii sensor to tilt, good katana combat, but the multiplayer 
 is disappointing. Somethimes it get boring, but is one of the best games for wii because of the good 
 use of the wiimote and good graphics. the game isnt hard and is easy to learn. the only bad is the 
 multiplayer that is only shooting, they could add some sword duels, etc, and is not much maps to play. good 
 variety of guns, and, between some missions you can go to dojo or a shooting range to get some weapons 
 or skills. Its some kind of cool you kill some guys and appear a yakuza with a sword and you have 
 to fight him. good voices of the characters and it haves an great soundtrack 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeAmNiNjA
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 15, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Ok so i wanted wii a long time and when I did get it (finally) there was 2 words that came to my 
 mind.
  
  Red Steel!
  
  Before I did get the wii or even tried it i was extreamly hyped about this game, and when i got 
 it, I was surprised with what I played.
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  The gameplay of this game was just awesome. The reviewers from all the magizines and websites were 
 dead wrong, the AI is not stupid and the gameplay does not suck, they made it perfect. The first 
 time i played i felt like i was accually in a gunfight. Of course in the begining, I strugged with 
 the gun, constantly missing my enemy, because, just like my counterstrike instint told me, shoot 
 em in the head. In this game, headshot is not how you kill your enemy when you first play the game, like 
 in most other shooters that I play. This games gameplay is great and i think that they couldnt 
 make it better.
  
  Lifespan 7/10
  The consept of Lifespan was something hard for me to rate. In most games that I play, I play like 
 half or most of the story, than i multiplayer for the rest of the time and finish up the story 
 when ever I am board. This game was not like those others. The story no matter how cheezy and not 
 original it is, is pretty good and kept me playing. But after beating this game once, i dont really 
 want to play it any more, like all games it gets boaring, Even though red steel's story is good, 
 i just cant get myself to play it all the way through again.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  When ever my some of my friends hear the word WII
  They just blurt out Bad Graphics . Thank god 
 for red steel, for this is the game that proved to my friends that the wii's graphics arent that 
 bad. For a game that appears like a low budget action film, the look of this game is one of the 
 best for the wii so far. One thing that really stunned me when you shoot through the paper walls 
 and the light flows through, its pretty awesome. The only reason i gave it a 9/10 is because of 
 the comic strips, it was pretty nice at first, but got old too quick.
  
  Sound 9/10
  Wow, just wow, pretty much like every thing else in this game, MOST of the sound was well done. 
 Notice that i said MOST and I will explain that reason later. But now i will focus on the good 
 sounds. I remember the first sword fight that i was in, the clash of steel and the sound of my 
 sword ripping in to my enemys flesh as blood spurs out of my enemys sword puntured arm (just kidding) . 
 The sounds in this game were mostly well done and makes a nice partner with this games great gameplay. 
 NOW on to the horrible sounds of this game, but even though the sounds are bad, i dont want it 
 to kill the sound grade more than the 1 point it already did kill. The bad sounds in this game 
 is the just plain stupid comments the bad guys make. Such as when you kill one of their partners 
 they scream, MURDERER, even though they were the ones trying to kill you in the first way. And 
 i cant remeber a time playing with out the computer calling me a bastard about 25 times.
  
  Other things to remember:
  The gameplay of this game may be good, but dont let this fool you 
 the multi player sucks, BAD
  Also the sword fighting in this game is very fun, and some times gets a little addicting
  
 
  Final Score 7.8/10
  
  Rent or Buy= Rent unless you really like to keep playing story mode or crappy multiplayer. Even 
 though this game is very good i just dont think it is worth the 50$ good thing i got Twilight Princess 
 instead of this. Oh and one more thing i would like some feedback please, this is my first review 
 i have wrote and i would like to know how i did, and if you did like it i am hoping to write one 
 for Warioware smooth moves really soon you can check that out too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazygame2
Rating: 3.8
Date: May 11, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  I like Games, and i like most games i play but to be fair Red Steel was shocking. First, the Graphcs 
 are Medel Of Honour Rising Sun, and anyone who has played that will know it is poor.
  
  Second, While Playing, the gameplay is impossible thanks to the wiimote, its either to sensitive 
 or not sensitive at all. When nintendo released the wii they said it will be the best way to play 
 games. Nintendo was right about one thing and that was it is best for playing games, but only kiddy 
 nintendo games like wing island.
  
  So To Be Fair Red Steel dosn't get my vote and it is a poor game with terrible gameplay.
  
 
  CRAZYGAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nova_Mongoose
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 10, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, Red Steel is not nearly as bad as the Gamespot review says it is. It does have it's 
 shortcomings, but because of it's great controls, sometimes beautiful graphics, and redeeming split-screen 
 multiplayer, I must give this game my recommendation. The story is part of the problem: You play 
 this guy who's girlfriend gets kidnapped and you have to get her back, tell me you haven't played 
 that one before! But at least the plot takes you to beautiful Japan where the environmental graphics 
 are often eye-catching. The characters on the other hand, look pretty unremarkable. The controls 
 in Red Steel are pretty spot-on. I don't know why anyone would call them difficult or wonky unless 
 they didn't posess the mental capacity to point. It's a pretty basic wiimote setup: nunchuck moves 
 your character, reloads, and grabs new weapons; wiimote points, shoots, and cycles arsenal.
  
  The missions are pretty long and are mindless FPS ecstasy. It's been a long time since I played 
 a true run n' gun game and this one doesn't dissapoint in that way. Where it does fail however, 
 is in the enemy AI. They mindlessly shoot at you without care for there own lives. The sword-fighting, 
 much touted before the game was released, is a huge letdown. No skill is required to mercilessly 
 slaughter your opponent-just flick the wiimote and eventually he'll go down.
  
  The multiplayer, however, is quite good. With enough maps and standard-issue modes to keep you 
 happy for a while. It's a real joy to compete against someone else using the wiimote. Thanks for 
 reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quilex
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 10, 2007 2:01 am PT
Review:  Red Steel is the first game I have got for Wii (apart from the usual Sport &amp; Play) and I am 
 having great fun with it. The controls only took a while to get to grips with and the level lay 
 out was varied in look. The range of weapons where fun although other than the targeting options 
 &amp; some fire rate they did not make a lot of difference, I would like to have seen a more strategic 
 need in choosing witch weapon to pick up.
  
  I really like the sword fighting it added a different element to the play and it the part I found 
 most challenging, thus making it the most satisfying. Everything can be shot at and that I love 
 I look forward to going through the levels after completing and just having fun shooting up the 
 place. The Multi player aspect is good I have only had a few chances to play it put each time we 
 had great fun, lobbing grenades with the nunchuk was great fun ( shame its not on-line but for 
 RSII may be ) Over all I would say its worth the money especially if you have friend who can play 
 the Multi player with you. If they release a second there are places for improvements but I would 
 still see it as a must own for any Wii owner how likes FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluffers623
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 9, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  this is probably the best fps on the wii so far, but its competing with only one other game, cod3. 
 both games are good, but this game is very different. other then just blindly shooting a gun into 
 the air, you get to swordfight and watch boring scenes that u cant skip. but its not that bad. 
 the graphics on this game is pretty bad, and when u kill a person, there just become limp and fall 
 down. the aiming for this guns is pretty good, a nd the sniper rifle is sweet in the airport level. 
 you get to blow stuff up, use gernades, swords, guns, and kill you fiance's father's lieutenant 
 bodyguard. you also get to kill loads of bad guys. the best part of the game is probably the sound. 
 you get here them are they whizz past u really well. this game is better of renting first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kungphooey
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 8, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot says red steel is bad, well for the fist half hour, it is. It's hell learning the controls 
 and moving around without looking at the celling. But after you get the hang of it and start swordfighting 
 it's really quite fun. Shooting with the wii remote is great, best idea ever for the wii. just 
 point and shoot, and the sword fighting is pretty good too. A bit standard, block hit, dodge, hit, 
 block again...
  
  Graphics are fine, nothing specail. People sometimes get stuck to walls when you shoot them with 
 a stong gun, or sometimes form a small pile in a corner of a room, but it's not too big a problem 
 to worry abou it. Lots of swearing and shouting, I was suprised to hear everyone swearing at me. 
 It's really good and makes the game a lot less childish.
  
  The story is relitavly short but you can play indicidual levels, and things blow up rwal goo in 
 this game, it's worth the rent for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendo_fan135
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 8, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  For those people that watched any videos of Red Steel or seen a trailor for Red Steel, don't get 
 your hopes up that a revolutionary first person shooter has reached the market. Red Steel, while 
 diffrent, is more like a half succesful experiment than a carefully designed game.
  
  The graphics might be the only thing they did rather well. Character models have decent detail 
 and the explosions and the effects of shooting certain objects (for example, shooting a power box 
 will create an electric field around it or shooting a car will make it explode) are almost Xbox 
 360 quality with only some minor drops in framerate.
  
  Gameplay is the main letdown. The sensitivity of the wiimote on any setting is always to sensitive. 
 And the fact that you have to point at the screen without going off the screen makes controls very 
 fustrating. Sword fights are a nice touch but they are not all that fun to play. You may have seen 
 videos of fast sword fights with someone swinging the wiimote around like a madman. Well, that's 
 not what it's like. The sword fights are so slow paced that they can almost be classified as turn 
 based combat. And not only that, but all the good and fun moves you can pull of are unavailable 
 to you at the begining. Even if you try to recreate the movements shown in the manual that show 
 you how to perform cool moves like Little Scorpion , the game will not perform the move.
  
  Sound is atleast better than the graphics are but not by much. Gun fire and other sound affects 
 are top notch but voicovers sound like they hired random people on the street, gave them a script, 
 and then recorded them with fake accents on. The generic enemies, no matter how diffrent they look, 
 all say the same things over and over again. You can only take a guy yelling He's Gone! whenever 
 you duck behind a table so many times before your fighting the urge to purposely throw your wiimote 
 at your TV.
  
  In the end, if you're still interested in this game after all that I've said, so might want to 
 consider renting it first. Because, don't get me wrong, there's still some fun to be had here but 
 it's just surrounded by problems that it couldn't possibly last more than a dozen hours of gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p_angelofdeath
Rating: 9
Date: May 8, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  Lets start with subject terrible score of gamespot &amp; ign... i don't understand why the score 
 very very very low for this game ? Where the standard ? I wonder it how to gave the score for this 
 game because it's a very cool game FPS on the Wii. I ever played some many good FPS games and I 
 know what the people from FPS yeah!! it's about new game play and RED STEEL is the answer. RED STEEL 
 is the one game that have good quality and good concept but someone
  might be not see it. I give this game 9 point from my opinion. Graphic in this game looks excellent 
 (Shade &amp; lighting very beautiful) but some stage is a lot of lacking but it's a little problem. Sound 
 in this game is very cool let's me explain you .. when you walk on something like stone something 
 like water that different over more 20+ sound of feet another cool thing is the WiiMote can make 
 a sound like cell phone calling melody that very cool. Game Play Yeah Yeah.. I very love this scheme 
 control (Wiimote &amp; Nunchuk) it's very deep when you push A button and push your hand to TV 
 it's zoom like you do in the real world of the game! Conclusion .. It's a kind of good first STEP 
 of FPS series on the Wii Console I like this game very much so try it trust me and you will not 
 disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: couggod
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 8, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  This was the game I had to play for the Wii. To me, this is what sold me on the whole idea of the 
 wii. And after playing through the single player campaign the fact that this game consists of two 
 seperate identities and it switches between them at random.
  
  The first is of a polished and fully fleshed out game, one that fulfills all of the hype that was 
 said about thsi game. For starters Red Steel makes full use of the Wiimote and nunchunk, and when 
 you get the hang of the control scheme (that takes about 30 mins to an hour) you will feel like 
 the hands on the screen are an extension of you. The graphics are the best so far the Wii and there 
 are times when they rival some on the 360. The sound is immersive for the simple fact that Red 
 Steel makes full use of the speaker on the wiimote. For example when you become disoriented the 
 sound will stop coming out of your TV and come out of your Wiimote, cool aint it.
  
  And then the bad side of Red steel shows its face, the buggy unpolished side. Occasionally the 
 game will refuse to do what your wiimote does and does some completely wierd thing. Then the guns 
 somehow become ineffective against enemies even when your crosshair is red and he reacts to being 
 shot at. And then the combos dont work out at all in the sword fighting modes, which are also bad 
 because the game can get stuck in a loop and you have to restart the mission because of that. This 
 affects the game so much that it ruins the gameplay. All of these factors kill the otherwise enjoyable 
 experience that is Red Steel. Now if this were a PC game I would be more forgiving about the bugs 
 but this is a freakin console game. There is no other hardware except the console you are coding 
 for; so any bugs in the realease are inexcusable. Shame on you Ubisoft for rushing this game out 
 the door. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaminggeek
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  Note: This review is stiched together from a number of former blog posts so be aware of that when 
 thinking about context. At first I opened Red Steel and played it for a solid straight hour, then 
 tucked it back into the desk. After all the 5/10s I was expecting the worst, but it's actually 
 pretty good. At the time I felt a solid 8.0 score from this. Graphically it's blatantly unfinished 
 and the presentation varies so much that you'd think it's a PS2 game sometimes, a GC game other 
 times and an Xbox game in moments. It needed 4 more months in the oven, really all I need is crisp 
 edges and a solid frame rate and while the frame rate isn't bad at all its not rock solid as I 
 would have hoped. The controls work, I don't know what people were expecting but I have a feeling 
 that many users are blaming Wii game controls on their own unsteady hands - like Monkeyball. I 
 had an advantage, from reading all the impressions on the boards the first thing I did was turn 
 the speaker down to 1 and took off the auto aim. I also messed around with the sensitivity settings. 
 if you want really quick turning, you can put it on high and turn as fast if not faster than any 
 dual stick shooter I've played. But it takes a lot of skill as the aiming is also on high sensitivity 
 too. I keep it on medium which is the standard setting and so far I've found it solid and reliable. 
 There is no way around it, the controls work. The accuracy is as fast, responsive and accurate 
 as a lightgun/mouse in many places and the duck mechanic feels as good as time crisis did in the 
 arcades. The way the aiming works and the way the strafing and ducking mechanics work, makes this 
 game feel far more realistic than any shooter I've ever played. Finding cover and popping out to 
 hit bad guys becomes second nature and feels more true to life than in dual stick shooters where 
 you find yourself either circle strafing or just running up to people and firing point blank. Turning 
 is great........ to me. I know that a lot of people have found it difficult, but when I control 
 the game it's smooth. But you never find yourself in situations where you have to pull off quick 
 180s. It's not all rosy though as zooming in can be patchy and I've found you have to shoot from 
 the hip and then extend your arm full length to zoom at times and the nunchuk activated doors don't 
 always respond well. This is mainly user error, as any wii owner should know by now, short sharp 
 movements register and wafting, gentle, weakling movements dont. As for the sword fights, they 
 are really quite fun, it's not 1:1 but it's more 1:1 than zelda is, its about timing and you have 
 to realise just how much more boring it would be if played with a standard controller. I've read 
 some reviews that say that the game design stinks and its only the wii mote that makes it fun. 
 Not totally the right way to approach reviewing this game and a bit contradictory as well. If the 
 controls are making the game more fun then the Wii-controller is fufulling its purpose. You also 
 cant separate the controls from the game design as the controls are integral to the overall experience. 
 Yes, so far as shooters go, design wise it's fairly linear and standard, but the controller makes 
 the game more immersive, accurate and novel than you would expect. I could reccomend Red Steel 
 if you have the patience to try. I'm not saying it's an amazing game or anything, but it's certainly 
 no 5/10
  
  Note: Follow up Blog post below:
  
  Call of Duty 3 is allright but played next to red steel it feels rushed and amateurish. Yes I said 
 it, I was wrong about red steel, its graphics in particular. I had played on composites so it looked 
 like cack. Now it still has some horrible placeholder textures but put side by side with call of 
 duty 3 it looks sharp, vibrant and smooth. And no those red steeel screenshots are NOT doctored, 
 those are the graphics, it is smooth and clean and some of the lighting is wonderful to behold. 
 The only real reason RS looks better in screenshots is because you can pause to appreciate the 
 screens, whilst when you're playing the NPC on the screen is really trying to hurt you so you're 
 busy dodging, weaving and shooting. It still doesn't reach the heights of the best of the current 
 generation but later levels show glimpses of a brighter future for wii graphics. The controls really 
 immerse you into the game. I never play for longer than 45 minutes at a time, but played within 
 that window it can be really fun and it's totally bumped up in my estimation, this game is more 
 like an 8.4 on the Gamespot scale, I think they must have played with composites and with some 
 sort of pre-release version as the AI in the game is better (bar Halo) than any other I've played 
 against, the reticule bug is totally gone and its just a fun and worthwhile game. From reading 
 the impressions of various users on the boards and weighing US vs European reviews I suspect that 
 the European version (released slightly later) had most of these glitchs and bugs written out. 
 Thus far I have not experienced one single AI bug or glitch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havhzy89
Rating: 3.7
Date: May 6, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is very badly made. It is almost impossible to one shot someone, and its very very had 
 to shoot and hit people. They also copied halo 2 with the sword running up to the person and killing 
 thing. I thought i was kinda cool how the way u move ur hand for real life is exactly how it is 
 in the game, but its waaay too touchy. And another bad thing, is that u cant kill a person with 
 a sword, for some reason they made it so u can only kill a person by shooting them, like their 
 health wont go to 0% with a sword, it sucks. Another kinda cool thing, is how u can knock someone 
 out for like a few seconds. but then it just gets cheap once u both keep doing that to eachother 
 back and forth, it gets old fast. Once ur good at it, its better, but still not even mediocre, 
 i frown apon whoever says this game is good.
  
  I got my friend to rent it cause i had doubts in it in the first place, so we tried it out and 
 we both looked at eachother like how can u make a game so bad? 
  not only does the gameplay suck, but the graphics are HORRIBLE. even with HD, it still is barly 
 ok. So i returned it the day after i rented it, even tho i had 5 days.
  id rather play Wii sports all day then play this game again
  so rent it first, dont buy it before 
 even playing it. my advice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madogmgd
Rating: 4.2
Date: May 4, 2007 1:31 am PT
Review:  on november 19 ubisoft paris released a new shooter/sword game called red steel for the wii they 
 have talked about how its going to be all that
  and stuff but they didnt really put much effort into the game itself
  its full of bugs controls 
 are difficult there wasnt a minute where the
  bad guys didnt keep saying die you ******* or go to hell!!! the weapons
  are alright wasnt pleased 
 that you can only hold 2 guns most of the
  time you have to make a decision should i keep the shotgun with
  12 shells left or drop and get 
 the uzi with 400 rounds? the games
  health system allows you to regain health when you get shot by hiding
  behind a desk or a barricade 
 for a couple seconds and it fills right back up
  oh i forgot the storyline you are a faceless character sent to find
  his fiance when she gets 
 kidnapped by japanese drug lords
  sounds amusing....... the sword fighting is pretty easy to operate
  you can block parry attack 
 counter strike and dodge but most of the
  time you can just keep slashing at your enemy and they will go down
  easily. all the time you 
 will be struggling finding your destination in
  a level and winding up in dead ends or dark alleys with more bad
  guys to pop lead in you overrall 
 redsteel demonstrates the
  wii mote capabilities with the wii mote as a gun and a sword but badly
  does so if your looking 
 for a shooter on the wii your gonna have to wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Singpow
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 1, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  So i rented the game from blockbuster, and i wasn't expecting much because of the reviews, but 
 it looked cool. So when i popped it in my Wii, i had my friend over and we immediatley started 
 playing multiplayer and it was amazingly fun. Besides 4 player Halo and Halo 2, it has some dam 
 good multiplayer, especially for only 2 people. I'm in the middle of playing single player, which 
 is fun as well as the AI is good. I really am confused as to why everyone keeps downing it, saying 
 it has bad controls and terrible AI. I don't know why they say such horrific things. The controls 
 are almost perfect as well as the AI smart and will somewhat work together to take you down. The 
 sword fights are fun and challenging as well as a nice break from all the shooting. I really think 
 that all people should invest in this game because of just pure fun it will provide. If you are 
 just playing single player, be sure to play Multiplayer.
  
  Graphics: Good but not the greatest, definatley are fine for a Wii launch title.
  Sound: Good, 
 the sound out of the wiimote works well as well as the explosions and gun sounds out of tv or stereo.
 
  Gameplay: Very fun and Inventive. Gives insight to what other games may become on the Wii
  Value: Multiplayer is incredibly fun and will definitley get people to have this in their Wii's 
 for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sants412
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 1, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  I had a lot of fun with this game and if you gave it a shot, you could probably have fun too.
 
  
  You can't always listen to the ratings and you should give it a shot first before you say hell 
 with that.
  
  I liked the gameplay of this game. The story was good. Sword fighting was kind of dull and boring 
 and too easy, but other then the swordfighting the game wasn't bad at all. It has the potential 
 to be a great shooter in the future. There are a lot of fun parts of this game. You could snipe 
 people from far away. You could also run up on someone with an uzi and shoot 'em up.
  
  Multiplayer is good, but it isn't anything special. It's fun to challenge your friends, though. 
 I love to get the sniper gun out and when my friends walk by from far away, I love to shoot em 
 up.
  
  So, give this game a chance. It could be the game for you. Rent it first to see if you like it. 
 I'm sure that you will. But, don't take gamespot's advice on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hungry_Homer111
Rating: 7
Date: May 1, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Before the Wii was launched, many people wanted to see the different ways that game developers 
 used the Wii's new motion-sensing controller. The unique shape along with the motion controls could 
 be used for a lot of different kinds of games. A lot of people were excited to see games which 
 use the remote as a gun in a First Person Shooter. Other people wanted to see how the controller 
 would work with a game with sword fighting. There were several First Person Shooter games announced, 
 such as Call of Duty 3 and Far Cry Vengeance. And if gamers wanted to test out a game with swords, 
 they wouldn't have to look any further than Nintendo's own Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess. 
 However, there was only one game which uses both of these things in one game. This, of course, 
 is Red Steel. It is for this reason that this game was among the most hyped games for the Wii's 
 launch. Did it live up to the hype? The answer, simply, is no. But is it a good game? The answer 
 to that depends on how much you can forgive, and how patient you are. The game has both good and 
 bad points to it, and most of the bad things could have been fixed if the game was not rushed for 
 the Wii's launch.
  
  Story:
  
  The story is definitely not the best story that I've seen in a game. There are some really corny 
 moments in it, and some parts where I just couldn't follow what was going on. However, it isn't 
 the worst story I've seen in a game either.
  
  You play as a man named Scott. He is going to marry a Japanese woman, whose father is part of the 
 Japanese Mafia. At the beginning of the game, you are having dinner with your fianc&eacute; and 
 her father, but the dinner is interrupted when a group of people from an opposing group in the 
 Mafia attack, and you have to help him escape. However, after you do escape you find out that they 
 have captured your fianc&eacute;. So, throughout the game you have to get her back.
  
  Controls:
  
  Before the Wii, good games could seriously hurt a game, and even make it a bad 
 game. This is especially true with the Wii, because of the new motion-sensing controls.
  
  In this game, you use the analog stick on the nunchuck attachment in order to move the main character 
 forward, backwards, left and right. In order to turn, you have to move the gun's pointer to the 
 edge of the screen. To jump, you press the C button on the nunchuck attachment. To duck, you press 
 the Z button on the nunchuck. You point the gun at things by moving the controller like you wold 
 move the gun. In order to shoot, you press the B button, or the trigger button, on the bottom of 
 the controller. You can also have an auto-aim, which you activate by pressing and holding the A 
 button on the controller. There are some other controls in the game, which are cause different 
 things to happen. For example, in order to open the door, you move the nunchuck down (think of 
 the movement you make if you hit the edge of a table with a pen or pencil) .
  
  When I first played the game, I hated the controls. They were really hard to get used to. While 
 aiming, the pointer would sometimes be glitchy, and go all over the screen. Sometimes it was hard 
 to turn because of the glitches in the game.
  
  However, I realized that if I change the sensitivity of the Wii controller in the menu, it ends 
 up a lot easier to control. Also, after playing the game for a while, you will get used to the 
 aiming and turning and will enjoy it a lot more. While there are still problems with the controls, 
 it's not as bad as I originally though, and shows you a glimpse at what future First Person Shooter 
 game can be like if they take what is good in the controls for this game, and work on what is bad.
 
  
  Then there is the game's swordplay. Within the levels, there will be specific parts where you have 
 to face some enemies that you will have to fight using a sword instead of a gun. In these fights, 
 you are limited to a specific area, and if you go outside of that area, it will bring you back 
 in. Basically, you move left and right using the nuchuck's analog stick. You can do a different 
 kinds of moves. There is the basic slash of the sword, which you do by swinging your controller. 
 This is not controlled in a way where it does exactly the same thing you do. You can do several 
 swings to the right, and in the game those swings might be to the right, left, or a kind of diagonal 
 swing.
  
  Early on, you get a second smaller sword, and you use this to block attacks by the enemies (unless 
 if the attacks have a lot of force behind them, in which case you'll have to dodge the attack) . 
 In order to block the attack, you do the same motion as you do when you open doors (except with 
 a little more force) .
  
  There are other moves which you do, which you learn throughout the game. These are controlled by 
 doing different movements with the controller or nuchuck, and sometimes pressing the Z button.
 
  
  These sword controls are a lot more complicated than they really should be, but they do get the 
 job done well enough.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  If you are willing to forgive the rest of the game's flaws, this will be the reason why. As with 
 the rest of the game, there are good things and bad things about the gameplay, but overall I was 
 really satisfied with what the game had to offer in this category.
  
  Some of the game's levels are set up really well, despite being linear. The levels use the environment 
 not just as decorations, but in the actual gameplay. It has really creative levels, including one 
 of the better levels that I've seen from a First Person Shooter. However, towards the end, the 
 levels do get a little repetitive, and the final level is really disappointing.
  
  The A. I. in the game, like a lot of other things in the game, have some good aspects to them, and 
 some bad aspects. Sometimes they do some things which are really good, like hide behind objects 
 and shoot the exploding objects in the level if you get close to them. However, there are other 
 times that the enemies do some really stupid things. The best example of this is when you're hiding 
 around the corner of a door, and then an enemy comes up to you shooting, which makes him and easy 
 target, and he's not even shooting at you, but is shooting behind you.
  
  In the game, you have a life bar. Obviously, if it goes down all the way, you die and have to re-start 
 the level. However, if there is a part where you aren't being shot at, the life bar will fill up 
 again. This does make some parts a lot easier than it would be, but then there are other parts 
 which are really difficult, and you will have a hard time despite this.
  
  The difficulty of the game ranges from level to level. There are some levels that are really easy, 
 and others which are really hard. And the difficulty doesn't necessarily go up with each level. 
 For example, the second last level in the game is probably the most difficult of the game. However, 
 the last level is one of the easiest.
  
  The game itself is not really that long. It took me about 12 hours (spread out over a week) to 
 beat the game. However, there is also a multi-player mode which could add some time to the total 
 amount of time you play.
  
  In the multi-player mode, you can play with up to four people. You can choose what kind are person 
 you want to be (it's based on the different enemies in the main game) . There's also a choice between 
 four different levels (based on the levels in the game) . You can choose whether you want the game 
 to end after a certain amount of time or after reaching a certain amount of points. Also, before 
 you start, it lets you choose between 3 different advantages (you can choose to be able to cause 
 more damage to the people you're playing against, be able to take more damage before dying, or 
 having an unlimited amount of ammunition) . Also, you can decide whether you want to have the auto-aim 
 on or not.
  
  There are three different kinds multi-player modes.
  
  Deathmatch: This mode is pretty basic. You have two or more people placed in the level that you 
 choose, and each person tries to kill the other people before they get killed. Like in the main 
 game, each player's life bar fills up if they are able to hide long enough without being shot, 
 so you have to be quick before that happens.
  
  Team Deathmatch: This is basically the same as Deathmatch, but now there are two teams.
  
  
 Killer: In this mode, each player is given objectives through the Wii remote, and they have to 
 finish before the time is up. This mode is based on a good idea, having secret objectives and completing 
 them before the time ends, but it is severely hurt by another idea which is not one of the best 
 conceived ideas in a videogame, having the sound come out of the Wii remote's speaker so that everybody 
 can hear. If they end up coming out with a Red Steel 2, and if there are earphones released for 
 the Wii, then it can be one of the better multi-player modes for a First Person Shooter, because 
 then the objectives for each person would remain secret. But for now, it is probably one of the 
 worst multi-player modes created.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Just like many other aspects of the game, the graphics are very mixed between good and bad. In 
 fact, there can sometimes be good graphics and bad graphic in the same screen. For example, a door 
 could look very detailed, with little scratches and bumps and other details, but there could be 
 a table near the door which looks very plain, and have bad graphics.
  
  Sound:
  
  There are some songs in the game which fit the mood and setting of the game, which are well done. 
 There are also some good sound effects. However, the sound is severely hurt by the voice acting. 
 Also, there are a couple of times in the game when a character is supposed to be talking, but you 
 don't actually hear the words that they are saying.
  
  Overall:
  
  This game is really a mixed bag of good and bad. Many of the things which were rong with the game 
 could have easily been fixed if Ubisoft had taken their time to improve the game. In fact, if they 
 did that, it could have easily lived up to the hype that was given to the game. However, it is 
 not quite what was expected, and it's a game that probably should be rented before buying it. It 
 takes time to get into the game, and even then you will have to be able to forgive some bad things 
 about the game. Hopefully if Ubisoft makes a Red Steel 2 (because they said that they might make 
 it a trilogy if it sells well) , then they should really take their time with it and fix all the 
 flaws. If they do that, then Red Steel 2 could be one of the better First Person Shooters on the 
 Wii. But as it is, Red Steel is a game that is not what people hoped for when they heard about 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StephenBassford
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 29, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Definately the worst controls in a shooter I have played to date, HOWEVER, you can get 
 used to them, and you can get as quick at shooting as on any other shooter. To get used to the 
 controls, however, it will take about an hour or so. With this steep learning curve, you won't 
 have any friends want to play red steel because they'll be turned of right away (and probably want 
 to play Wii sports) . I give credit for Ubisoft for put out the first Wii Shooter, and actually 
 doing a decent job on it, however, let this be a example for all you other companies not to have 
 really strange controls.
  
  Graphics: Pretty Good. Not as good as Twilight Princess, but better than any other Wii game out 
 (besides SPM and SSX Blur) . Anything and everthing can be shot, and something will fly out of that 
 something. Whether it be dirt out of a pot, or launbdry detergent out of a bottle, everything is 
 interactable. Some spots, the graphics are superb, and others, pitiful... but every game is like 
 that... all in all.. This game has the best particle effects yet on the Wii...
  
  Sound: the best part of this game. Under the hogwash gameplay and decent graphics, is hidden beautiful 
 sound effects and sound track. Everything that blows up and can be shot has a sound effect for 
 it... pianos, bottles, glasses, washing machines, windows, cars, people, etc.
  
  However, voiceovers at the begininng of the game are pretty good, but they just get to plain embarassing 
 later on. And the enemies always cuss (which isnt necissarly bad) which gets annoying when its 
 only 3 words, and they say it in every room: You Bast*rd G*ddamn and... if you have really worrying 
 parents, Hell. 
  
  depsite the downsides of the sound, the good really really really weighs out the bad.
  
  Value: 
 umm, well, what do I say here? I wouldn't buy the game, until it drops to $30 or so, but the game 
 does have a decent length, and there is multiplayer, which you won't find in COD 3 (and I don't 
 think i even have to mention MOH or Farcary .. eww)
  
  Reviewer's tilt: 6.5, but I'll round it down, because i don't quite think this game deserves a 
 seven.
  
  All in all, Red Steel is a decent game that gives promise to future shooters.
  I would give Red Steel a rental (or a borrow) and see how you like it.. obviously you'll either 
 love it or hate it (see other reviews) . It would be a shame not to give this game a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pac1234
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 29, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  this game u need to get gameplay is real good idk y ppl talk down on the game its good with nice 
 storyline. funfunfunfun. y do everybody talk down on dis game its real fun and it had me really into 
 it. the levels are real long but its worth it. the sword fights r fun to nice moves and u unlock 
 more as u go. the grapghics are so so but the explosions r good the voice acting in here sucks bad 
 and u only have like 6 guns. p999, uzi, scar, and two shotguns. they didnt spend much time creating 
 ppl cuz everyone looks the same. the sound from the wii mote sounds fuzzy but no gunshot sounds 
 come from the wii mote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kwiksilva
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 25, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  Not a bad mix of swordplay and gun fights. There are some problems with the gmae however at times 
 it can get glitchy and not respond well. but if you ignore the bugs that the game has when it is 
 functioning properly the game is very fun and a good start to the Red Steel franchise. In the beginning 
 the sword fights are some what easy but towards the end it gets better. And the overall story of 
 the game is nice but the scenes inbetween are disappointing and I think i would rather see cg cutscenes 
 in their place. but overall a fun game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cenamena
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 24, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  i've known form experiance with COD3 on the Wii can be a toughy to play. the control is over sensetive, there's 
 no lock-on aiming and the nazis are just plain dumb. luckily, Ubisoft cushion the blow before i was 
 going to smash my Wii to pieces. COD3 was rubbish for this console. so on to Red Steel now. thankfully, you 
 can adjust the aiming sensetivity on this game, plus there is good enemy AI and nifty katana sword 
 fights throughout the game makes this more than just a shooter. it makes you feel like your really 
 in the game (well most Wii games do anyway) . the guns are cool. blasting into a room with a fully 
 loaded uzi is every gangsters dream ain't it? but every game has downsides and Red is no different. they 
 throw you into the line of fire straight away without a detailed turorial. graphics are weak, about 
 the same quality of COD3. plus, playing the game on a high sensetivity level is like trying to get 
 a fly to kill a dog. won't work. if you have a wii and you find this game under &pound;25 like i 
 did from ChoicesUK. com then buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link334
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 23, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is not what I thought it would be but it is a great game. Why? For the simple reason 
 that it is one of the very few games that actually use the Wii remote as your gun and swords. It 
 is a very fun game and I Am glad that I purchased it. But it is definitely a fun game and will 
 be a challenge for almost any gamer. The handling on the guns and Wii remote is not very high but, 
 it is still fun to use the Wii remote to fight the sword fights and shoot the enemys with your 
 control. It is a great addition to the Wii collection and I will try to re-do this review when 
 i have completed the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azsoonerfan1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 21, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel is a great game! Idk why everyone hates it? the multiplayer is OK but the single player 
 is awesome! It is a long story that makes perfect sense. The people that hate the controls didnt 
 spend enough time to really learn it. I personally think the controls work great. if your interested 
 in a great shooter, buy this game. I got it on launch and is still playing it. This game is non 
 stop action.!!!! If you love FPS this is a perfect game for you! I give this game a 9.3!!!!! BUY 
 IT. BUY IT. BUT IT. BUY IT. BUY IT. BUY IT. BUY IT. BUY IT. BUY IT. BUY IT. BUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waitaseck
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 21, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel is a great game. That is only if you look past the numerous glitches, and tacked-on controls. 
 It is hard to aim sometimes. If you can get this game for a low price ( I got it for $29.99) than 
 you won'y be that disappinted. Before the Wii came out, I wanted this game so bad. I beat it within 
 a few days after I got it. I still think it is the best shooter currently on the Wii. It's multiplayer 
 is one of the reasons to buy it. The soundtrack in this game is catchy but sometimes annoying. 
 Swordfighting is fun for awhile but it gets very repetitive other than difficulty. Breaking the 
 enemies sword is the easiest way to win. This game can be hard but thanks to the health system, 
 you won't die much. Graphics are different in different places. In my opinion, graphics in the 
 Japan portion are much better. Just look at the dojo an you will see why. After you beat the game 
 once, you will have little desire to pkay trhough it again. Only buy this game if you need a multiplayer 
 shooter on Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bryceisbest
Rating: 4.1
Date: Apr 21, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  I got this game the day after i got my Wii thinking it would be awesome and that it would be like 
 playing Time Crisis 3 at the arcade.
  Boy was i wrong. I got so frustrated trying to move and shoot and look around. Its very sensitive 
 to any movement and therefore the cross hair darts around the screen and you can barely see it.
 
  
  Overall i would probably give this game a four, because of the terrible gameplay, and repetitive 
 music. Also because you get stuck in one spot in the game, you can't beat it, and pretty soon you 
 get so bored of trying the same mission over and over again and give up totally on the game. I 
 am very disappointed in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whellock
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 17, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  When I played this game I find it rather difficult to master but now I've got the hang of it. The 
 shooting was just okay but sometimes the weapon on-screen can freeze for a second but comes back 
 to shape. The sword fights can be challenging but what really Pissed me off was the lack of control 
 when you get hit and you don't know what to do next. I got killed so many times doing this. Overall 
 my only favorite part of Red Steel is the focus shots, just point the remote close-up and the screen 
 will focus the targets you want to eliminate. Its a fine game but the frame rate is not that smooth 
 enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rugiki
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 17, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  The best exclusive first-person shooter, that we have on Wii right now. And it`s really not bad. 
 Fightings with swords are not very impressive, but it makes gameplay different. Graphics is very 
 good (i mean Wii level) and every object can be destroyd by your bullets. Ubisoft don`t make bad 
 games, and this is true. Red steel will give you good time, killing a lot of yakudza with pistols, 
 shootgans and blades. And multiplayer is very good, but there are only 4 maps= ( So, if you like 
 shooters - you should play this game. Must buy to everybody, who have Wii. P. S. Sorry for my English 
 grammar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cursedspirit33
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 16, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Oh man. What happened? Red Steel. Kickass name. Guns and samurai fights. Great Idea. Using the 
 Wiimote to shoot and slash? Innovative. The Delivery was awful. The controls ruin this game. You 
 feel like a third grader trying to shoot, and the swordfights are boring and repetitive. Block, 
 dodge, strike, laadeedaa. Sure, it looks pretty, but that doesn't help all of it's major issues. 
 The most frustrating part is thinking how great this game should have been. Oh well. better luck 
 next time. Not recommended for anyone. Rent it first. I'm sure some people will enjoy it, but it 
 is far too generic for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nightmare_B4_x
Rating: 5.9
Date: Apr 15, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  Red Steel was one of the first WII games that we saw, it looked like a new take on the FPS genre. 
 The story is not the most orgnial we have seen around but it holds up. Your some dude with a girl 
 who has a dad that is rich as god and she is caputred by the japo mob, pretty much it. The level 
 desgin is actullay well done and the weopen selction is nice. Now we come to actually picking up 
 are wii-motes and nunchucks. The pointer is well to sesntive for this kind of action. You will 
 die half the time because of the pointer, if you dont have perfect aiming the pointer will fly 
 off the screen leaving you more hit abale then a polticaly joke at the office of Matt Stone and 
 Trey Parker's writing board. The reloading motion is nice, sword fights are the game's beast point. 
 Althought why do you need to sword fight when you have a shotgun? Boss battles (if any?) are medcoire 
 and play the same. Zooming in is one of the games most orginal ideas, to bad it works terribley. 
 The score is no where to be found. Mutilplayer is ok but needs some majior improvements. The graphics 
 are nice for nintedo. All together this game makes a medicore pakage that doesnt bore you nor extice 
 you. So what is the catch? If you can find a store that will let you rent it under five bucks then 
 thats a nice time to see if its as bad as most people say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arthie
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2007 5:11 am PT
Review:  There has been a lot going around about this game with some very mixed reviews. Firstly the controls 
 are completely fine, everyone moans about turning around too slow but if you just set the sensitivity 
 it high then its not problem ( I play with medium anyway) . The graphics aren't great but they are 
 good and when you blow things up it goes into good detail :P. The sword fighting is ok, it recognises 
 some simple movements but some of the special moves are really fun such as the hammers. The music 
 is a great thing in this game as it it calm when you aren't being attacked but as soon as they 
 know you are there and start to fire at you the music goes all fast paced to give you extra motive.
 
  
  It has a good replay value as I'm on the road to completing it for the second time, the price for 
 this game has gone down quite a lot so in some online stores you can bag it for &pound;25. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthus8888
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 14, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  I pre-ordered this game, and I'm right on the edge as to whether I should have made the purchase.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  There is some truly fun gameplay here. The pop up and shoot style of fighting that you are frequently 
 forced into works well. Run-and-gunning is possible, but many times you will end up getting shot 
 down. Level design is okay, but nothing stunning except for when you're trapped by the insane dude. 
 That was the single impressive level in the game. This would be a near good game except for the 
 terrible controls. Aiming is hard. Grenades: harder. Zooming? I'd rather forget about that. Lastly, 
 the sword controls are unresponsive part of the time, but they're passible. Oh yeah. And don't 
 forget when you accidentally don't aim at the screen. Your guy just spins around helplessly making 
 it quite hard to get back in control.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The one strong point in the game. Explosions look nice. I particulary don't care about the glitchy 
 dead bodies. Those are funny.
  
  Sound:
  
  Terrible. Nauseating. Voice overs are poor and accents are way too strong to discern much of the 
 dialogue. Some of the AI shouts as responses to your actions, however, are nice, however repititive 
 they are.
  
  Value: multiplayer isn't anything special. Not much replay value. Nice length to 1st player missions.
 
  
  Overall, it's up to you. I'm not making any strong recommendations. If you can tolerate the controls, 
 then maybe you should get the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChargersROCK42x
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 13, 2007 11:21 pm PT
Review:  First Wii game ever known to me. It looked so damn cool when I sawthe trailer of that dude hidin 
 behind his couch and sh*t. But when I got this for chritmas, I realized that this wasnt that good. 
 The shotty AI is stupid with its gy dialouge, horrible movements, and theyre really stupid. Weapons 
 are really cool though. The control scheme seems promising, but it didnt deliver as well as I though 
 it did. Its very hard to zoom and aim your gun. The sword fights ae really the best part of the 
 game. But you see a guy come out with sword, then you just have to take yours out, why cant I SHOOT 
 HIM?! Besides that, this game is fairly decent and gets more fun the farther you get so if you 
 have a wii, go for it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Claudezilla
Rating: 4.9
Date: Apr 13, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  This game is just plain bad.. Such a cool concept. It seemed rushed for wii's release. Katana's, 
 guns and yakusa how could you miss. I would rather wait and play a good game then spend another 
 $50.00 on a crappy game like this. UBISOFT try and make a sequel but spend your time making it. 
 Screw rushed games. I feel like this game could have been better. I wish they didnt hype tease 
 us at e3 with this. But I guess all games cant be zelda. my advice is if you must play this game 
 go rent it. If you buy it dont say that we didnt warn you about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiwillstand
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 12, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel is an okay game. Although it could've been better, it was very much similar to Wii Sports. 
 It has some very intuitive gameplay. The gun shooting is done very well, but the sword-fighting 
 could've been a bit more 1:1. Seeing as how you're able to freely move a gun, why can't you do 
 the same with a sword? The cinematics could've been better. The idea of paintings for the cinematics 
 were interesting as well, but when people's mouths moved, it wasn't the best. Although cinematics 
 weren't put together well, the overall graphics were pretty impressive.
  
  The japanese motif and graphics combined weredone fairly well, and that is very good in my opinion. 
 The game hosts numerous guns to your library, and make the game exciting. The intense gameplay 
 is put to very good use. Surrounding items, walls, etc., were done well, especialy destroying them 
 during fight sequences.
  
  The story is fairly simple. Japanese gangster tries to take over enemy gang. The ganglord kidnaps 
 your fiance, and so you go out to save her and the gang whom your fiance is related to. A lot of 
 twists and turns make the story well worth playing through. The game is a good kick-off for future 
 FPS's. Perhaps future game makers will take what they've learned from this and make something absolutely 
 brilliant! Red Steel is a good game that should be picked up by all. It's a good action-packed 
 game with a few flaws, but that doesn't take the fun out of the game. Red Steel is a definite purchase 
 for Wii Owners and is worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrax80
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying that Red Steel is a game that is full of problems but it still manages 
 to be a fun game if your expectations aren't too high. First of all the graphics in this game are 
 really well done. You can tell they tried to get the most out of the Wii as possible and the environments, 
 explosions, and various effects look great. The character models could have been better though 
 and the characters move awkwardly. There also seem to be an outline of light around and characters 
 and the thing is, it looks good sometimes and other times it just looks weird. The story is interesting 
 but it's nothing very original and is definitely not a strong part of the game.
  
  Sound in this game in terms of guns and ricocheting bullets is all done nicely. Each gun has it's 
 own sound when firing and matches the guns perfectly. The sound gives the weapons a little more 
 kick . The problems with the sound comes from the Wii-remote speaker. About 20% of the time the 
 speaker sound seems to become very distorted and is easily noticeable. But most of the time it 
 seems to work fine. The voice acting is pretty weird. The characters Japanese accents seem fake 
 and sometimes they are just too thick. This will cause some very hilarious dialogue scenes that 
 were not meant to be funny in the first place. The music is very good and there is some great original 
 soundtracks done for the game. It's a shame that the music seems to have had more work done on 
 it then the voice acting.
  
  The gameplay for the most part is really fun. While the cursor is much more free than in other 
 Wii FPSs it definitely takes getting used to and has a very steep learning curve. But once you 
 get used to it and bare through the learning curve, controlling it becomes a breeze and you will 
 be delivering head shots all over the place. There were some reports of the cursor acting very 
 jumpy, i personally didn't experience the problem much but it could be fixed by turning off the 
 Wii-mote speaker. While the gun fighting is fun the sword fighting seems awkward. The game does 
 not have 1:1 movement but it comes close. There are plenty of sword moves that you learn throughout 
 the game but i found them useless when compared to the sword breaking move. As soon as you break 
 the sword of the opponent he gives up. This creates unbalanced gameplay and sword fights were easier 
 than they should be in certain places. That being said they don't really feel like sword fights 
 but it still can be fun. There is a multiplayer mode but it is very shallow, you get a handful 
 of maps and modes. Multiplayer can be fun and those few maps are well designed. But they will start 
 to get boring after a while.
  
  Overall Red Steel is a game that is full of glitches that can sometimes be funny and only rarely 
 make you restart the game. It is pretty obvious the Ubisoft did not have enough time to finish 
 this game and get it polished before the launch of the Wii. I still recommend you at least give 
 it a rent and bare through the steep learning curve. And maybe you will find a game that is very 
 ambitious and fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razor_cc_atu
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  If you like Realistic FPS's then this is the game for you. There are a lot of complaints with how 
 shaky or unsteady the cursor is on the screen but that is one of the things I love about this game. 
 If your hand is still then the cursor is still but if you shake then the cursor shakes. if you 
 have ever tried to shoot pistols and smg's before you will know that this game is very similar 
 to how it really is. When you are spinning in real life and suddenly see someone it is hard to 
 snap your gun up and shoot them.
  The sword play is a lot of fun also. It lacks a little bit of the control that I would have liked 
 but overall it is a lot of fun.
  
  If you like realistic FPS's it is one of the best I have found!
  
  Also, if you have any questions 
 about it let me know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xRaZoR_LiGhTx
Rating: 5.7
Date: Apr 6, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  After watching some trailers, seeing the adverts on TV, I thought to myself, now that is a title 
 to buy . I was mistaken...
  
  The controls are bad. You use the wiimote to aim etc, but its so slow. To do a 360 degree turn 
 takes you ages, so when some guys come up behind you, and is firing a shootgun up your arse, the 
 controls make it damn hard for you to turn and blast the thug.
  
  Gameplay:-
  Its all very linear. Shoot some guys in a corridor, go up some stairs, shoot some guys, go outside, 
 and some guy runs up says some cheesy dialogue, then pulls out a sword, and you have a very dodgy 
 sword fight. its just not realistic at all.
  
  If you go crazy on the guy, slash him about, until he moves backwards far enough, the game sort 
 of stops your controls, lets the guy move back into the centre then lets you fight again.
  
  Its that pretty much for the whole game.
  
  Graphics:-
  Now I'm not sure if it's because 
 I also have a 360 that it made this stand out but, wow. In my opinion they are below par, just 
 not great at all really, I mean they'll do, for an older console, but the next gen wii? Nah.
  
  Sound:-
  Hmm, gunshots explosions etc all good. Some cheesy voice acting thought.
  
  
 Value:-
  It isnt worth 40&pound;, or whatever the equivalent is where you live in my opinion. Search for 
 a preowned or something, or rent it if you REALLY want to give it a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alphonse405
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 4, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  really, red steel was one of the first games to be announced for the wii. i was honestly jumping 
 up and down when it was announced. maybe this game could show people that nintendo isn't kiddy.
 
  
  form all te videos on the internet, it was somewhat hard not to have a biased opinon about this 
 game. gameplay: the storyline of this game is extremely well done. i like the fact that i'm the 
 fiance of a girl who's dad happens to be the leader of a yakuza mob. i truly believe that it would 
 take time for the regular joe to learn how to play this game. this game was not really ment to 
 be played the way wii describes it. (although nintendo said that they would offer games for both 
 gamers and non-gamers) . anyhow this game takes some know how that should be accounted for when 
 deciding to buy. the controls are kind of, well.. let's say they could be improved. the only thing 
 i think would trouble someone (me) , is the fatc that it takes a heck of a lot of time for you to 
 do a 360 degree turn. also (i don't know if this happend to you) the controls went crazy on me, 
 i mean literally i could not make them work, cause the aiming system would take me down instead 
 of the direction i wanted to go. (6/10)
  
  Graphics: ohh boy, touchy topic. i know that it's not near ps3/ xbox 360 level, but to what the 
 wii was expected to do, i really have to say i was impressed. i was truly happy with all the japaneses 
 details. i really felt like i was in japan learning about the japanese culture. truly just showing 
 what the wii is capable of. (10/10)
  
  sound: ohh, yeah. good, extremely good to be exact. i actually saw a video at ign. com, i saw how 
 the music for the game was carried out. i love the music, fits the game like a ring on a finger. 
 couldn't have had anything better. (10/10)
  
  value: i find this game to be good, and higlhy misunterstood, yeah, the controls might need some 
 improvement, but hey everything else is fine. so i defenetly recommend it if you don't mind spending 
 some time wrestling with the wii-mote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitchtropico
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 4, 2007 7:01 am PT
Review:  Red Steel is a great idea of a game (Control wise) but a few small bugs in the control sceme can 
 drive you nuts...
  
  The graphics look like a year old gamecube game and they look rather grainie upclose. and there 
 is no blood in the swardfights : (
  The sound is in my opinion the best part. You hear great sounds from the Wii-Remote like wepons 
 reloading,.
  
  The worst part of this game is its sawrd fights... There difficult to get fist time and the cutscenes 
 are non scippible...
  
  All in all the game will keep you busy for mabie 10 to 12 hours 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reggie186
Rating: 5.9
Date: Apr 3, 2007 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel was one of the games that really made me excited to get a Wii. There was so much potential 
 in the game: sword-fighting, gun play, an Asian girlfriend...
  The problem is that this game is SUCH A GREAT IDEA, but it really doesn't feel done. 
  
  I'm 
 not going to complain about the gun play because I thought that it was quite enjoyable. The sword-fighting 
 however is a completely different story. It's not responsive, all of the opponents you face are 
 predictable, and most of all it's just not fun. I want to swing the Wii-mote around and have my 
 character on screen do exactly what I'm doing: I want to feel like I have a sword in my hand in 
 a video game world. Red Steel never accomplishes this, and for that I am greatly disappointed.
 
  
  I have gotten into arguments concerning this game's graphics, and here's the deal: they are really 
 shiny, but that doesn't make them very good. Some of the locations you travel to in-game are really 
 pretty, while others are awful. None of the character models are very well done either.
  
  This game was a huge disappointment to me, mostly because I expected it to be so good and it really 
 isn't.
  
  The final verdict: Pass on it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clarkeyboy21
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 1, 2007 6:20 am PT
Review:  Red steel is completely the wrong name. For it to be called RED steel the should be an element 
 of blood but not here, not even a little trickle from a rat! Walking through this mild an heart 
 pumping game is fairly easy as when you are being sprayed with MP5 rounds all you have to do is 
 duck behind a wooden crate to replenish all of your health. Although on the adverts it shows the 
 wii remote being used to its full content but through using your samaurai sword the kata giri isnt 
 as satifying as you would think so. Anyway back on to the storyline... the basic gist of it is 
 that you are an American with a beutiful japanese fianc&eacute;, but that isnt it, there would 
 be no action if she was just killed for being pretty, no! she gets kidnapped as her father is the 
 leader of a brutal gang so he gets killed and using his sources you must avenge his death and be 
 the knight in shining armour to save your beloved fianc&eacute;.
  If you were thinking on buying it i wouldn't reccomend, it has a small element of fun but does 
 get tireing after a while and the wii remotes sounds are very metallic, the genral sounds are usually 
 ok - when are we going to get an adapter so that the wii can play music aswell ad the PS3 and XBOX 
 360. This game isn't terrible just lacks the quality to be brilliant, i would reccomend it but 
 only if you have 3 or more controllers and nunchucks and a decent CD player to droun out the agonising 
 sound with heavy metal music!
  I did like it when you get past the first two levels and lean more about how to use the controlls 
 it gets good but again, and i think people might agree with me, wheres the god dam blood!!!!
  In two player mode it gets better being able to have power-ups and dressing up as green dino-lizards 
 and masked men but it should have a bigger array of maps and a bigger arsenal. It's fun just not 
 quite there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingandCitizens
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 29, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  This game doesnt look or play as bad as everyone thinks. The gameplay isn't great, but its an early 
 game for the wii and it was bound to have faults. The gameplay was alright except for the gunplay 
 trying to keep that cursor straight. I think the reviewer called it the 'rubberband effect.' This 
 will definately get you frustrated. The swords were horrible and a waste of time. It just took 
 away from the average gunplay. The graphics werent bad and werent good either. Some parts looked 
 great. Like the garden for instance. Some of the textures were smooth and some looked like the 
 back of my balls. But anyways.
  
  The sound was the worst part of the game. That fake chinese accent. The white man talking for all 
 the black guys in the game. It gave it such an unrealistic touch to it that it was ridiculous to 
 even listen to.
  
  Its kinda worth something. FIrst shooter on the wii. Earlier, it was a big trade in at gamestop.
 
  
  Multiplayer supplied me and my friends with a few hours of fun, honestly wasnt that bad. Surprised 
 me. Worked out better that I had expected for sure. I still enjoy it actually. Even though it only 
 has 3 or 4 maps/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Judah6
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 29, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  This game to me wasn't that bad because you start off in the restaurant in LA then you girlfriend 
 get kidnapped then you have to saved her all over Los Angeles. The Controls isn't bad but you have 
 to get used it because when you are tying to pick off the enemey controls is a little loose. the 
 graphics is not bad but it shoud be better. One of the most exicting things I like about this game 
 was the sword fights, when you move on to Japan that's when you can go into a dojo a train much 
 as you want. so people saying this game is a wast of time it not, if you never play this game try 
 it out, this game is a new way to play FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poepx
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 28, 2007 1:50 am PT
Review:  Redsteel was surprisingly good for me, because of all the negative reviews. Just finished the game 
 withing 8hrs, aims really well. (I played worldtop with UT and semitop with CS1.5) The sword fights 
 were pretty boring, but at least there were some elements, like breaking enemy sword and combo's. 
 Storyline was mwa, I like the female boss.. There are 2 story endings! For the diehards you need 
 to finish every mission within an amount of time, +50% acc. and get enough respect to get samurai 
 status, for +100% completion. Didn't tried the multiplayer function yet, dont have 4x wiimotes+nunchucks. 
 I've every wii game NTSC-U/NTSC-J&amp; PAL. Redsteel is a must have for the wii owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esabourin
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 24, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel is a great game for the Wii, Even though it can be a little buggy at times. The graphics 
 are good for being a launch title on the Wii. Good music. Lots of gameplay. Multiplayer is fun. 
 Uses the wiimote very well, and this game shows that FPS will be amazing on Wii with the wii remote. 
 Just remember, this is a launch title, and it is the First FPS on the Wii, give it some slack, 
 these kind of games will get better. Can't wait for Red Steel 2!
  
  Red Steel Gets A 8.6 Out of 10
  
  Eric Sab 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yamizureyx
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 24, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about Red Steel? The game itself is... ok.
  The Graphics are... Ok.
  The Sound is... Ok.
  Its just Ok. But it lacks something, something vital and important to a 
 game. I'm not terribly sure what this is, but what I do know is, is that this game will quickly 
 get boring and its best to spend your money elsewere.
  
  Gameplay: The overall combat system was both promising and revolutionary, utilising movements from 
 the Wiimote and Nunchuck to make your character shoot, swordfight, throw grenades, open doors ect...
 
  However, after an hour or two of repetively swinging your wrist to open a door, things get a little... 
 tiresome. The shooting bits are good though, and can often leave you impressed, but eventually, 
 after you've seen the same enemies, made the same movements, done the same thing over and over 
 it can get boring. The main problem is, that the game has no shine. Nothing to make you go Wow, 
 thats cool. and you definately wont play it over a second time. The storyline is... a bit crap. 
 Basically your girlfriend gets nicked so... you shoot everyone. Hm. Yeh. And for some reason, you 
 cant shoot people who own swords, you have to get your sword out and fight them honerably and often 
 get your ass kicked. Graphics: The graphics are as I said. Just Ok. It doesent realy make use of 
 the Wii's more powerful system and looks just like that of a Gamecube game. Has its good moments, 
 but not awesome in my opinion.
  
  Sound: Whilest the game does have some good music tracks, the sound is flawed by the annoying (and 
 often cheesey) comments that enemies will continuously spew out at you. Seriously, after hearing 
 YOU B****D hundreds of times, you want to turn the game off. Or destroy it. Either way really. 
 I did like the music on some levels though.
  
  Value: I would like to say its worth playing but... It probably isnt. You want to like this game. 
 You want it to be good, but when it comes down to it. It just isnt. It doesent realy give the idea 
 of a FPS on the Wii justice, it could have been great but sadly isn't. Go buy Zelda instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: santanablu3
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 21, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  I think this game is one of the most creative game's out there. I also think that the reason why 
 people don't like this game is because the controls of action were to hard for them to control. 
 Honestly i think that this game should not be played, thats if you are not use to the wii-mote. (if 
 you think about it a lot of people would not think this game isn't that bad if they knew how to 
 work the controls) Also this game has very cool looking explosions witch make the game even look 
 better. The only bad thing about the game is the voice acting. They cannot act for anything. so 
 i warn ya if you have sensitive ears, cover them. The sword fighting in this game is very well 
 done and very fun. Overall this game is well done and very under-ratted. so if you like 1st person 
 shooter game like i do, i suggest you buy this game.
  
  p. s dont listen to anybody oppinion that gave it a low rate'n is really not that bad!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delessangelles
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2007 1:29 am PT
Review:  First of all, forget what you read in the official GameSpot review, Red Steel is not a buggy mess. 
 Forget what you read in the official IGN review, the controls do not suck. These claims are simply 
 not true. After having read the reviews for this game, and then playing it for myself, I have to 
 say I was completely shocked - no way in hell is this game a 5.5 . It turns out that this is an 
 excellent game, and deserves review scores like the 8.0 that IGN UK gave it.
  
  Red Steel features some of the best graphics seen on the Wii thus far. It uses plenty of light 
 blooming, reflections, cell shading, and surprisingly high res textures. Environments react realistically, 
 dust falls off walls as they are shot, wooden pillars splinter, and so on. Also, the environments 
 have a very polished look, and you can see that Ubisoft took the time to pretty up the areas throughout 
 the game to give it a consistently nice visual look. Of the three FPS's for the Wii so far, it 
 is by far the best looking.
  
  Controls in this game work surprisingly well overall. Yes, the sword fighting could be better, 
 but it doesn't suck, not by a long shot. And the shooting is great, having a larger box enables 
 the game to have more of a duck hunt feel, rather than being just like every other fixed-reticule 
 shooter.
  
  The game's sound can be a mixed bag. There'll be dramatic, uber cool, music during significant 
 sword duels, giving you an oh this is so cool feeling, while at other times the soundtrack can 
 be viewed as an annoyance. Overall it's fairly good though, and lends flavor to the experience 
 nicely.
  
  The main campaign for this game is actually quite long, not to mention the training missions that 
 take place between standard levels... it'll take you quite a few hours to play through, roughly 
 three Halo's in terms of length.
  
  Red Steel deserved much better press than it got. All I can say is go give it a try. You'll see 
 that it's one of the best looking Wii games to date, has a slick presentation and story, a lengthy 
 campaign, and fun controls. I've clocked in many hours with each of the first three first person 
 shooters on the Wii, and I can say that without at doubt, Red Steel is by far the best one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tom_7991
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 17, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is good.
  Probably the best multiplayer game on the Wii so far.
  Although this is not a classic Wii game.
  It has original concepts and the potential to be amazing 
 but theres just those little things that can change so much.
  The story is pretty basic, the weapon range is nice, the sword fighting is interesting but at times 
 non-responsive and i do think it would be better if there was a fixed crosshair.
  I enjoy it.
  Don't rush to get this but keep it in mind.
  Especially if you enjoy killing your 
 friends with katanas.
  
  peace out
  
  tom 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beeker1
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 22, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Red steel can make good use of the Wii motion sensor technology that the Wii has but Red Steel 
 can be awkward at times. You may think that the sword Fights look cool and fun well they are just 
 very annoying (As Monty Pythons Life Of Brain would say, its not the messiah its just a very annoying 
 part of the game) Moving the gun around is also as I have been saying annoying because when you 
 move to the right by like 2 inches the gun on the screen will move right across the screen (As 
 star was would say, Luke use the Uzi but master it's almost impossible to aim, Thats it I'm getting 
 Lucas to make remakes of star wars because I can't work with Mark Hamill) The Graphics are great 
 the floor reflects all the objects will not people but it still looks good, Good Detail on the 
 people, Guns and objects. The physics are as good as Half Life 2 most objects can be destroyed 
 so you and the enemy will have to move from cover to cover. The sound is not that good and the 
 voice acting was not that well done because the Characters are Japanese but they sound Russian. 
 Could of done better UBisoft . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HappyInvader101
Rating: 5.1
Date: Mar 13, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel looked really interesting when it was revealed a while back. Im sure many future wii 
 owners, like me, were hyped for this. But slowly by slowly my hype for this game died. After seeing 
 the 5.5 score i though Wow, it cant be that bad regardless i returned my copy of Red Steel to grab 
 super monkey ball banana blitz. A few months later, after hearing many people saying try it out 
 i did. And my god, Red Steel is a god awful game.
  
  In Red Steel you play as this guy, no i dont know his name. You and your fiance are going to meet 
 your fiance's father (that wasnt worded the best it could of been) . When all of a sudden, the is 
 a murder attempt, and your fiance is captured. Coincidently your fiance's father is apart of the 
 Yakuza. Now you must grab a bunch of guns and go out across the world, killing a bunch of people, 
 to find your fiance. Yea, it's a poor excuse to go out and kill a bunch of people with weapons.
 
  
  The Gameplay in red steel.... yea... Well its glitchy lets just say. You aim with the wiimote, press 
 the B trigger to shoot, Use the Nunchuck analog to move, Z on the nunchuck makes you crouch, C 
 makes you jump. You shake the Nunchuck to reload and when your by a door, it opens it. The D-pad 
 on the wiimote makes you switch weapons, only two can be carried at a time. And the A button, that 
 puts you into this aiming mode kind of, where you can zoom in a bit by moving the wiimote forward, 
 and enemies are kind of outlined. This is alright... a nice first try, could be better but its a 
 launch game. Your health is kindof like the health from your run of the mill FPS, it gets damaged, 
 but when you hide, it comes back. You also gain some abilities late on in the game, such as the 
 ability to kind of slow down time, so you can mark a bunch of enemies, and when your done, you 
 shoot automatically. It is introduced to late into the game to be something to care about and i 
 would rather just shoot them myself. Now whats glitchy here is that the cursor may randomly spaz 
 out. The enemy AI is also one thing that is terrible, they are so stupid! Seriously, i can stand 
 there and reload in front of like 5 guys and not die, i can hide behind a box and reload and they 
 will wait for me, thats the easiest way to describe it. Then there are the sword fighting sequences. 
 They come in at weird times, after a big shooting scene usually, and you must use your sword, some 
 thing i thought was incredibley stupid, I have a freaking shotgun, why cant i use it? Anyways, 
 the sword fights also suck. The nunchuck acts as your shield kind of, you use a broken sword to 
 fend of attacks, while you use the wiimote to slash. You cant run around freely during this, you 
 can only strafe, which sucks. Like i said before, the enemy AI is so stupid, you may not even need 
 to block. After defeating a foe, you can decide whether or not you want to kill them, and get like 
 appreciation points or somin like that. Had this been a more in depth game that would of mattered.
 
  
  The graphics in Red Steel look like an average gamecube game, although the explosions in this game 
 a phenomenal. Other things though, like steam/fog, not so much... that kind of stuff is sort of 
 blocky. Water also looks terrible in this game. The story of the game is told with these picture 
 type things, not with cinematics or in game, but with pictures. I guess they do that to try and 
 stylize it but it fails miserably.
  
  The sound, yea occasionally there will be a nice up beat song playing in the background, while 
 henchmen with terrible dialouge and voices scream at you. The voice acting in this game is some 
 of the worst and the cheesiest that i have ever heard. And the sound effects are... meh, other games 
 have better sound effects, but it is bearable and mediocre
  
  The game can be beaten pretty fast, unfortunately for you, i didnt beat it. But from what i have 
 heard, it can be beaten in pretty much a single sitting, which i wouldnt doubt. There is a multiplayer 
 mode that is there but it isnt that good. There are only 4 maps and few game modes to pick from. 
 The gameplay in the multiplayer suffers the same thing as the gameplay in the single player. The 
 lack of online also harms it. Red Steel is a pretty bad game, it could of been decent if it was 
 released last gen on the gamecube, where the graphics would be as bad, but it still would be bad, 
 maybe the gameplay would of benefited from a normal controller, not to say that the wii cant puull 
 of an FPS. The control scheme was promising and gave me hope for a decent FPS game on the wii. 
 If you want an FPS on the wii just wait. Red Steel is a bellow average FPS, no matter what system 
 it could/would of come out on and is just not a good purchase. Sure you may want to rent it if 
 you are not convinced at all by this review, but trust me when i say that Red Steel is simply one 
 of the worst games... possibly ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowFFVI
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 12, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  There's not much to like here, between the game's bland graphics, and shoddy controls. What we 
 have here is a typical sub par shooter only made interesting by the use of the new Wii Controller, 
 which isn't really that new in itself as it just feels like a light gun game for the most part.
 
  
  The game does have a cool look/style to it (which may attract you) , but I'd definitely suggest 
 you wait for another shooter to come out, or have a game of Wii Sports tennis... again.
  
  You may bring up the sword fighting as its one unique feature, unfortunately I have to report that 
 it is for the most part a broken feature which doesn't play out well. With that said, I'd love 
 to see a sequel of this with a bit more refinement as I generally liked the ideas behind it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Damien_Torrence
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 11, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Right off the bat, I havent beat it yet. I'm half way through but I've played it enough to get 
 a good feel for it. Well, this is a weird game both to review and to experience. The controls are 
 pretty good, they're accurate when you're using the gun and, mostly due to the Wii's controller, 
 it's just really natural feeling, I dont really have to think about anything, I just move the wiimote 
 and the cursor moves with it. Sword fights aren't 1:1, sadly, but the sword reacts quickly enough 
 to make it extremely fun to do. In fact the controls are the only things that feel perfect in the 
 game. The story's pretty cliche and pretty campy, which is good because the game would have more 
 problems had the plot taken itself real seriously. The dialogue is goofy, laughably goofy in China 
 you have a geeky voice screaming I need support! and, while trying to kill you, yelling Murderer! 
 and the accents are TERRIBLE! over the top and hilarious to listen to. The graphics is where this 
 game shines, for the most part, anyways. There is a LOT of detail, and how much destruction can 
 go onscreen is insane. There has only been one moment of lag, and it wasnt too bad. Overall, buy 
 it, it's better than what the reviews say and its fun on multiplayer, even if you cant play all 
 swords (Which I am praying for for Red Steel 2) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RomisSandthief
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 11, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  When I went to buy this game I was expecting a good show of sword fighting capabilities and shooting 
 action. Instead I was throughly disappointed with them. The fighting was not realistic at all. 
 This is not entirely the fault of Ubisoft as I do not believe the Wii remote is at the point were 
 you can actually fight like a real swordsman. The swordfighting is reduced to quick flicks of the 
 wrist and quirky moves. Basically it is the same as any other gamepad with button mashing which 
 is simply replaced by moving the remote and nunkucu. The most frustrating part about the fights 
 are the constant interuptions. When you are fighting and pushing back your opponent the game will 
 stop the fight and center the opponents in their little fighting areas so you can continue. This 
 really chops up the fight and makes you feel like kicking the Wii because you wast so much time 
 reseting your position. It is understandable because it would be hard to fight all over a huge 
 space but at the same time it destroys the feelings of excitement in the sword fights.
  
  Where the game shines is the shooting. As a lover of House of the Dead and the like, I find this 
 type of first person shooter much more satisfying then using a gamepad. It feels great and handles 
 well. My only problem with it is that they are trying to keep an element of the gamepad style first 
 person shooter in the game but they really need to make their own.
  
  The AI is quite short of what should be expected however. At long range while using the sniper 
 rifle the enemies are able to hit you very easily. A close range you find that guys will run right 
 past you without taking a shot. If you ever get into close range though you are pretty much dead 
 because they really can't miss you and you do not have enough health to survive.
  
  Overall however the graphics really aren't that bad at times they are a bit lame but the buildings 
 are usually very good.
  
  In the end I found myself very fustrated at times. It is very hard to see where guys are shooting 
 you from even with arrows pointing at you when you are hit from off screen.
  
  Do not expect much from the story. It is extremely lame and the cutscenes are horrible. You end 
 up with poorly drawn manga screens with sound and it makes me feel jipped. The story did not draw 
 me in at all and I found myself completely unattached to my character. but what can we really expect 
 from a first person shooter.
  
  All in all. This is a game to rent and beat but you should wait for a more polished first person 
 shooter to show up for the Wii. I will definitly keep my eyes out for one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kebn
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 11, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  Red Steel is fun to play, i did enjoy it (some parts more than others) simply because of the control 
 scheme (which could also do with a bit of fine tuning) . As first person shooters go this one is 
 lacking on many levels and just seems half-done. AI - Surprisingly..... not bad actually, sure 
 you get the occasional suicidal idiot but for the most part your enemies will use cover and can 
 be kinda tricky to pick off. However, while the AI isn't bad..... it's not good either, enemies 
 seldom work together and attempts at team work are usually short lived and poorly executed. WEAPONS 
 - Decent variety, good overall.
  LEVEL DESIGN - Narrow corridors, staircases, hotels..... think Die Hard. While the enviroments 
 are cliched, overused and very predictable they are destructable (to an extent) and offer plenty 
 of cover (although someone probably should have told the developers that a 12 gauge shotgun can 
 most definately penetrate a wooden table.
  CONTROL - Surprisingly difficult to get used to, the sensitivity seems unnatural and at times it 
 can get very sluggish. Turning 180 degrees proves problematic and setting up your sensor bar is 
 vital if you want realistic aiming, otherwise the wiimote works like a mouse. If you can overcome 
 these difficulties the controls feel great in both the shooting and sword fighting sections of 
 the game.
  GAMEPLAY - Mindless, uninspired, old-school/cliched fun. There is no substance to the game, its 
 just anarchy contrasted by the slower paced sword fights. Sure its lacking but it is fun.
  GRAPHICS - Good but if you spend your time judging games solely on graphics you wouldnt have bought 
 a wii.
  SOUND - Powerful (if you mute the awful wiimote speaker first) . The sounds of the guns are great, 
 I cant say the same for the terrible dialogue and voice acting though.
  VALUE - Rent the game first or just borrow it from a friend, i dont recommend paying full price 
 for it.
  
  PROS - Fun and entertaining, multiplayer can have some good moments. Sword fighting is actually 
 pretty good, some cool guns in there, CONS - Total lack of a story, half assed cut scenes, inability 
 to skip these scenes, long levels, few checkpoints, very linear, awful voice acting, doesnt live 
 up to its potential on so many levels.
  
  Like many Steven Segal movies Red Steel is entertaining but I doubt it will ever be remembered 
 as a classic. Fun but.... all in all its just an average shooter albeit a fun one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 21, 2007 5:23 am PT
Review:  Alright, that's enough beating up on poor old Red Steel! I haven't enjoyed a standard FPS like 
 this since Goldeneye 007 for the N64! The major reason isn't that Red Steel is that much different 
 then a standard FPS. It's one person vs a ton of dumb bad guys. You get some cool weapons and you 
 just start shooting. This format hasn't changed since the first Wolfenstien on the old PC. But 
 the Wiimote has changed how people play games. It gets you more involved and for once I feel like 
 I playing FPS for the first time again.... and I LIKE IT! The story is pretty typical though..... Your 
 basicaly out to save your girlfriend from the Yakusa and bring order to the chaos to the mafia 
 of Japan. So the story is kind of like Show Down in Little Tokyo. The ending is very lame and it 
 brought the fun factor of the game down. In fact if the ending hadn't been so lame then I probably 
 would have kept this game in my collection.
  
  While the controls aren't always spot on, the Wiimote is used as a typical fire arm. Where you 
 aim it on the screen is where the weapon is pointed. The B button or trigger button is you firing 
 butter and the A button is your scope button. The aski pad or cross at the top of the mote is choosing 
 you weapon. The nunchuck is used for opening doors, manipulating objects and moving the character 
 around. Plus you get to use a sword to hack at people! How cool is that! Not just any sword but 
 a katana! The way you swing the Wiimote is how you slash at your opponant. Pretty cool, but that's 
 the most innovation that the game creates. As I stated before there are some issues with the controls. 
 Sometimes your character will not turn the way you want him too because you are too close to a 
 wall. Somtimes the controls are overly sensative and sometimes not. The idea is sound, but it's 
 kind of a mixed bag. When they are spot on, it's really fun though. The graphics are pretty cool, 
 and look good on the Wii. There are some glitches like you'll fall into a crate you can't get out 
 of or you might get stuck in the ducking position. You'll have to quite and start from the last 
 check point which can be irritating. The music I liked quite a bit. Very oriental in nature (seeing 
 that the game takes place in Japan) . The voice acting is ok, nothing they will win an Oscar for, 
 and the sounds are pretty typical of FPS. So lots of shooting noices but boinks or twomps. All 
 and all this is a good starting place for FPS on the Wii, it's got a good base to start and hopfully 
 will grow. It's not perfect but there not everything can be. I recommend Red Steel for those players 
 looking for a new gaming expierence. Particularly since there hasn't been that many mote mature 
 games on the Wii. It doesn' have it's fall backs, but it's worth playing though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMDavis07
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 12, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel was one of those launch titles that everyone ran out and bought. Ubisoft just couldn't 
 dissapoint with such a cool idea that separates itself from all of the other first person shooters 
 on the market. Many months later, many people have returned their copies of this game, but the 
 game still leaves a bad taste in peoples' mouths. Even though the game has it's moments, Red Steel 
 is a buggy game that has many gamers bored with it after less than an hour.
  
  In Red Steel, you are Scott, boyfriend of the daughter of a Yakuza ganglord. The story begins with 
 you and your girlfriend about to tell her father that you're getting married. After a gang busts 
 in you learn how to control your character, reload, push over tables etc., while trying to save 
 your girlfriend and her father. Though this tutorial introduces you into the game-world and unbearable 
 voice-acting, you'll soon find that everything is not as it seems. Turning your character is an 
 unpleasant task, while clumsily holding in A and pushing your Wiimote towards your screen to zoom 
 in is a necessary but ultimately annoying mechanic. Like many other parts of the game, shooting 
 is a dissapointing experience. Though more straight-forward than other FPS' on the Wii, it is a 
 difficult process that requires patience to fire your weapons accurately.
  
  Shortly after killing some basic baddies and getting a few new weapons, you find a sword and your 
 father-in-law begins a tedious tutorial for you explaining the Way-of-the-Samurai. There are a 
 few moves that you'll eventually get but really just take away from the experience. The sword fighting 
 is similar to a turn-based RTS game. You block, attack, the enemy blocks, rinse, repeat. Later 
 in the game the sword fighting gets frustratingly difficult as the enemy will continually block 
 your attacks and stab you; a move which you can't mimic. After defeating an enemy and bringing 
 him to his knees, you have two choices. 1) You can kill him. 2) You can let him go by shaking the 
 Nunchuk. The latter is usually a more efficient choice considering you get respect by freeing the 
 downed enemy.
  
  Late in the story, you can train and use your accumulated respect to buy new skills and powers. 
 One example would be a skill resembling bullet time from Max Payne. You can push a button to stop 
 time and shoot the weapons out of the hands of enemies, netting you more respect with which to 
 buy skills. It mixes the action up a bit, considering you can clear a whole room full of enemies 
 in less than 10 seconds.
  
  I've spent about 4-5 hours in this game and haven't been motivated enough to continue playing. 
 From what the website tells me the game will take you about 10 hours to complete, depending on 
 how you play it. Red Steel is a good example of how FPS' shouldn't be executed on the Wii. Though 
 it's fun for about an hour, the game is plagued by an abundance of lag and bugs and won't keep 
 you busy for long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b36soldier
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 10, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  Well since buying the Wii I thought that it would be good to buy a shoot-em up game so that I 
 could really enjoy the full experience of the Wii!
  After many ,any hours playing this game I have come up with the conclusion that there is something 
 missing in this game, maybe because it is the first of its kind, or sumit.
  The story line aint bad, its just what you would expect, Youre a Gaijin marrying into a Japanese 
 gangster family, then something goes wrong, you get the picture.
  This game would have been better if it was online, I would have loved to throw grenades at someone 
 in France!
  Overall its a good game, you just need a bit of patience to get to grip with the controls. I would 
 buy it though as it will entertain you for quite a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevdm10
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 9, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Redsteel was a game on my listI just had to get. I played it and felt strange. the game di a good 
 job at keeping your heart pounding. Unfortuneately the controls feel strange and unfamiliar. After 
 a while it feels like the same routine: Someone comes out of nowhere, curses at you then shoots, 
 more cursing ,and then more shooting. if you are into more serious games you probably won't like 
 this game to much. However if you are faithful and play into a couple levels you will find this 
 game to be fun. it is all a matter of patience and faithfullness. This game an definitely prove 
 faithful you are to video games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 4, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  The review's and the reviewers were a little bit right on the control scheme being a little sensitive, 
 but I still think that it is still a very fun way to experiance first person shooters on a system 
 with motion-sensing ability. This game you could probablt beat in around 10 hours depending on 
 how good you are. The gun fughts are pretty fun and so are the sword fights. The sword fights arent 
 really that hard but there still pretty fun. So overall I would get this game if your looking for 
 a good inexpensive First person shooter for the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radicaldude10
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 2, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games on the wii. I don't know why this game got such bad review, and it's 
 such a good game. This game should definetly get a better review than 5.5. It makes more people 
 think it's crap when it really isn't. The game is fun, and is a pretty good example for the wii 
 remote. It's not just like any of your other shooter games. you can do sword fights and training 
 stuff, and more. I'm sure more people like this game, but people under-estimate that is a great 
 game and should get more rep. Track Me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalejr88
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 2, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel is very unimpressive. The game is very glitchy and the gameplay is very dull. I got bored 
 after about 30 minutes and not interested at all to beat the game. Shooting after shooting is all 
 that is in the game. The sword play is very clunky and way to easy. The visuals of the game are 
 also pretty damn poor. The characther models are good but everything else is not, and everything 
 is very glitchy and seems like it was put together with carelessness. I hope that the sequal is 
 way improved and more interesting. The animation movies are really cheesy as well! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkside5675
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 2, 2007 3:15 am PT
Review:  Red Steel can be a great first impression for the Wii if you are not expecting the next big shooter. 
 The graphics are pretty poor, alot of the characters are poorly designed generic characters and 
 there is little variation in the enemies, most areas will just recycle the same few people over 
 and over.
  
  The story in Red Steel may aswell be non-existant. Its poorly done and alot of the characters are 
 just completly uninteresting, and almost no of the characters ever develop. Alot of the times you 
 will be wishing you could skip a scene. But Red Steel really doesn't rely on story, it's like a 
 big action movie - pathetic story, but enough action to keep you entertained inbetween.
  
  The sound in Red Steel is pretty good when the battles heat up, but alot of the time you will just 
 hear nothing apart from a few background sounds. The voiceovers, especially those of the asian 
 characters, are pathetic. It sounds like their lines were pieced together one at a time.
  
  Red Steel has some good shooting gameplay at first, but towards the end it begins to tire down, 
 but not quickly enough to discourage a purchase or rental. A second play through is unlikely if 
 you don't have many Wii games either. It does take a bit of getting used to at first, and setting 
 the remote sensitivity is almost required. The sword fights on the other hand are easy, especially 
 if you know a few combos, and seem pretty half baked, but its better then mashing the B or square 
 button.
  
  Overall, I would reccomend this as a rental, and perhaps a purchase if you have the money floating 
 around and the lack of Wii games. Not the best, but for a first impression of the Wii it can be 
 great fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: web966
Rating: 4.2
Date: Mar 1, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  When Red Steel was first unveiled in spring 2006 it seemed to be everyones dream game. Shooting 
 and sword fighting with the Wiimote is a great idea. That great idea somehow turned into crap. 
 Red Steel plays so bad its almost unplayable. It takes for ever to turn your guy around and your 
 aimer likes to spaz out for no reason. The game is completely broken and shouldn't have been released 
 this early. The graphics go from ugly to decent and the voice acting is awful. The AI is completely 
 retarded unless your hiding behind a barrel or something. They have amazing accuracy and seem to 
 be able to shoot through anything to hit you. The story sucks, the multiplayer sucks, the weapons 
 suck and the music sucks. Everything about this game sucks, don't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blahblah311
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 28, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  This game was hyped greatly before the launch of the wii and some people were telling me and my 
 brother (at two diffrent stores) how great the game was going to be Its gonna be the best game 
 ever! As of the game living up to the hype IT DIDNT but its still a solid game but the other bad 
 part is the fact that the game is very very short and gets very repetitive overall i wish i would 
 have rented it first but i still enjoy game. the game is good just not the best the game can be 
 greatly changed to make it way better if there is another red steel they better get it right 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 28, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel isn't the best FPS for the Wii, but it definitely is not getting what it deserves. It 
 is a buggy game indeed and has somewhat lazy controls, but it still flows very nicely from start 
 to finish. In this game, you will take the role as a young man named Scott who is trying to meet 
 his fiancee's father, who just happens to be a gangster. So when they get there, she is captured 
 and you are expected to get her back. Ok, typical, but what did you expect? Exactly. You will take 
 control of multiple weapons such as guns, grenades, and a sweet sword. Even though the game is 
 good, I think we could have gone without the sword fighting sequences. Anyway, the story works 
 fine, but I think it could have been a bit longer for my kind of taste.
  
  The weapon use in this game is ok. The guns are used the best. You can only hold two, but that 
 is enough because it is pretty easy to kill people. The grenades are okay. It can be difficult 
 to throw grenades but you'll get the hang of it after you fo it a lot. The last is the sword. Like 
 I said before, this game didn't need the sword, but I enjoy it. It becomes a major pain at times 
 because you can mess it up a lot and that can lead to multiple strikes from the enemy. I think 
 parrying is a bit more simpler and easy to do and a great way to counter their strikes and feed 
 them some of their medecine. Weapons are good in Red Steel, but I think they could have done better.
 
  
  The use of the Wiimote and Nunchuck is great. It feels liek you are really fighting. Whether you 
 are shooting a gun or swinging a sword; it just feels real. When you want to shoot, hold the gun 
 like you would in real life and shoot using the B button. When you want to swing your sword, just 
 take a big swing and you either hit him or his sword. When you want to pick up a gun, flick down 
 with the Nunchuck and pick up a gun and start shooting for your life. I think it is used pretty 
 dang well. There is no doubt you will find glitches or bugs. I once was stuck inside of a support 
 beam that I later found out was too small for Scott to even fit in. It will indeed be SUPER annoying, 
 but you learn to live with it.
  
  Overall, this game is a competent game, but could use a lot of improvement. I would give it a shot 
 if you are an FPS fan, but want some sword fighting sequences thrown in. That is being a bit specific, 
 but still. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 28, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel for the wii is a first person shooter and some fighting with the sword. You basically 
 get 6 guns to use and a sword to fight off a group of gangs who have stollen your girlfriend and 
 thats basically it. Theres all this crap that has nothing to do with you and there all pissed about 
 something so they decide to do what gangs do kill each other. The controls are preety good I think 
 they made a few improvements since the launch as some of the glitches were not present when I played 
 but I still ran into a few. The sword fights are kinda lam as all you do is slash and dodge and 
 block. Near the end its just about blocking 100 times till he falls back and you can't even break 
 his sword sometimes as it wouldn't let me probly a glitch. Once I ran into a box and ended up inside 
 of it and couldn't get out lol. Was funny for a few seconds. The graphics are medicore at best 
 and the music is about average. The main aspect of this game is the shooting. One probly about 
 this game is there was no rocket launchers or anything of the sort. All the weapons were like machine 
 guns, shotguns and handguns of the such. The game is short being able to beat it in 10 hours if 
 not less. The voice acting blows and they all sound like idiots lol. The storyline is preety boring 
 as you don't care whats going on, nore do you care about anyone in the story. This game isn't worth 
 $60 more like half that. I don't recommand getting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goldenmachete
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 28, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this is a good game, but it could have been better though. It is kinda hard aiming 
 a gun and sword fighting. But in basics though, it is not bad. Gameplay- not bad. Kinda hard, but 
 you will get used to it. Can get fun. Graphics- pretty good. It's graphics are like Goldeneye: 
 Rogue Agent on the Gamecube.
  Sound- good sound. The wii remote's speakers covers the reloading and sword fighting sounds. The 
 tv got the rest. The game has got a lot of cursing in it. (see ESRP rating on the back)
  Value- it is a good game, but it will take some time to get used to it. Overall, it is a good game, 
 but some gamers will not approve. It is somewhat glitchy and could annoy some people. It thourghly 
 enjoyed this game. With OK gameplay and not-so-bad graphics, this game is enjoyed, but not for 
 everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DroppedAtBirth
Rating: 3.3
Date: Feb 28, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  I got this with my WII in a package deal, decided to keep it even thou I kept hearing how bad is 
 was. Everyone is right, this game is sad. Controls are horrible, game play is horrible, graphics 
 are bad.
  
  This game is so bad, 3-4 levels in the are still getting tutorials on how to play, new moves (which 
 aren't worth a darn) , etc..
  
  The AI is hopeless and will stand there shooting at you with no hopes of killing you, I played 
 for a few hours and never died once.
  
  This is plain and simple the worst game I have played in a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex51011
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 26, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel
  
  Your fianc&eacute; has been kidnapped! Her father a kingpin in the Yakuzza has been killed! Its 
 up to you Scott-San to go find her and restore the balance of the Yakuzza which has become tainted.
 
  
  The story is pretty straight forward; your fianc&eacute; has been kidnapped by the infamous leader 
 of the Yakuzza who has killed your father-in-law. You have to rescue her and return balance to 
 the Yakuzza as it has become poisoned by the ruling of a certain Yakuzza of which you must find 
 and kill.
  
  Its not very original and has room for improvement but its still a pretty solid story. It may 
 possibly remind you of a movie as it has quite a few twists and turns, and being set in Japan just 
 adds to it. The story will take you to a lot of different areas in modern day Japan, such as a 
 Dojo to Geisha houses. The story is ok but could have been a bit better, its not horrible though.
 
  
  Visually Red Steel has some impressive environments and explosions although theres no doubt that 
 youll miss this beauty as youll probably be in the heat of combat. Unlike the other first person 
 shooter Far cry this game is beautiful; the environments look great when actually looking around 
 especially in a certain jungle type level you really start to see the graphics shine. As well as 
 explosions they are quite satisfying to watch and beautiful to boot.
  
  One thing that hinders the visuals is the people, there good but they arent great, you wont notice 
 it that much though. One thing that some people complain about is the comic cut-scenes, personally 
 I love them, they add to the Japanese feel. All in all the visuals are impressive in Red Steel 
 and deserve to be recognized.
  
  Gameplay in Red Steel isinteresting. There are quite a few hours of gameplay to the game so it 
 should keep you well and busy. Unlike games like Zelda you are on a straight forward path and the 
 most freedom you have is the ability to train with your sword or guns in between the missions, 
 although the missions are diverse and have many different areas to them. With shooting I havent 
 had any problems with it, theyve done it well, although it may take you a few minutes to get used 
 to it, but dont worry youll catch on quickly and it works fine. Sword fighting works alright, 
 although learning new moves is hard since you have to do each move 3 times and the controller doesnt 
 always pick up your movements right, or should I say the game doesnt. So you could be stuck there 
 for a long time trying to get it right. Sword fighting isnt 1:1 either but it still works. There 
 are also some glitches that youll encounter, I havent encountered to many but have heard many 
 people talk of there glitches, like floating people. The worst Ive had has been A. I running into 
 walls.
  
  Other then that there isnt much more, its straight forward gameplay, solid gun shooting and some 
 not so solid sword fighting.
  
  Red Steels controls are ok, you simply use the analog stick to walk and aim and click the B button 
 to shoot. Although the controls get much more complicated, you can knock over tables for cover 
 by flicking the nunchuk up to knock the table over. You also flick the nunchuk down or up to open 
 a door which works perfectly. Jumping and crouching are controlled with the C and Z buttons so 
 not much different there.
  
  When shooting you aim with the Wii-Remote and can zoom in by holding A and thrusting the Wii-Remote 
 forward. This works alright but your arm will start to hurt if you hold it for too long. To pick 
 up a different weapon you simply stand over it and thrust down with the Nunchuk. This is also how 
 you reload which can be incredibly annoying if you dont notice that youre standing over a weapon 
 and try to reload.
  
  Sword fighting isnt the best. You use your Wii-Remote as your main sword and the Nunchuk as your 
 blocking dagger. You swing the Wii-Remote in any direction and your guy will slice that way (although 
 it is not 1:1) . To block you simply flick the Nunchuk Left or Right directly before youre attacked. 
 You can also dodge by clicking the C button and pressing a different direction with the analog 
 stick.
  
  The controls are pretty good other then the Sword fighting.
  
  I love Red Steels original music. The Japanese music is incredible and just simply sounds great. 
 It gets intense when the action is well intense, and then it mellows down while youre walking 
 around. I love it and think they did a great job with the music.
  
  Youll also find the classic gunshot sounds that shooter fans are already so used to. These sounds 
 are fine and dont take anything away from the game. One other sound thats alright is the sword 
 clashing sounds, they sound ok and arent all that bad.
  
  The game sounds great; Ive got to give it that!
  
  This game may not be worth your cash but 
 if you like shooters then you may want to give it a try. As for replay ability theres multiplayer 
 which I thoroughly enjoyed and my friends have as well. Its very fun and will keep you entertained. 
 You can also replay any missions you want to with there single player mission replay option. So 
 go ahead and give it a try!
  
  Story-6.5/10
  -Frankly this story isnt that great
  
  Visuals-9/10
  -Good job Ubisoft with the visuals in this one!
  
  Gameplay-7/10
  -With some 
 glitchy parts the gameplay could have been MUCH better.
  
  Controls-7.7/10
  -Not bad, neither great.
  
  Sound-9.5/10
  -Music sounds great!!!
  
  Overall-7.8/10
 
  (Not an Average)
  
  I hope you've enjoyed another one of my Reviews!
  
  -alex51011 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikey_PJ
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 25, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  Red steel, it's a great idea for a game. It's like actually wielding a sword and killing all these 
 mofos around you and yes that is very fun. However you only get about 8-10 hours to do so and then 
 your adventure is finished. YEY? I didn't think so. One really good thing about the game is the 
 controls. They really suck you into the game and make you feel like you're doing all this especially 
 with the realistic movements.
  
  The other sad part about your adventure is that everything you look at looks fake and horribly 
 done and dark. But honestly this is suppose to be next gen. This reminds me alot of N64.
  
  And how about those cut scenes Eh just getting in the way when your reaching the climax of a mission. 
 And for what to hear a person with a really bad Asian accent talk about how you're kicking their 
 ass. LOLL I forgot about the sound but since I've talked about the people I think I'll tell you 
 the music is annoying to.
  
  The multi player is pretty fun. Shooting your friends and what not. The problem is that it only 
 takes place in 4 different places. Also there aren't many game play modes.
  
  So this game turned out to be a big let down and I could describe it as don't believe the hype 
 but really it's just a disappointment that leaves us wondering. What have they done?! This should 
 be the greatest game in the world but they messed it up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyprus646
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 24, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Red steek a FPS that has you playing the role of an american body guard that's sent on a magical 
 and action filled adventure to japan in order to save his Fiance from the Bad guy names sato. I 
 picked up this game with high schepticisim because I read most sites review of this game and they 
 all gave it less then good reviews. I had to try it for myself and what I found out is this game 
 isnt as bad as a 5.5 (looks at gamespot) While not a revolution in FPS like halo or counter strike 
 this game is a fun. The graphics to this game are good although for some reason when your doing 
 the 1st levels in america the graphics look very dule and textureless then when you get to japan 
 the graphics in my view get better. Charater models are fine but get used to shooting at the same 
 2 or 3 different charaters each level. Audio is surprisingly done very well especially when you 
 have your setting on stereo or surround. Tom Salta the composer for the GRAW series has produced 
 a fabulous heart pumping score filled with japenese instruments and hard charging procutions and 
 base. The learing curve to this game is a little steap I would probably say it would take a newcomer 
 to FPS's atleast a half an hour to 45 minutes to get the hang of it. Dont count on paying attention 
 to the story of this game though its feel's like a mid 90's cheesy steven segal action flick. The 
 voice actiong is pretty bad especially when you get to japan. And the ending level of the game 
 is to easy and feels very rushed. All in all this is a fun shooter i give it a 7.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sodafountan
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 24, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  Ok so I'm finally doing my red steel review. let me make clear that i havent beaten red steel yet 
 but i think i have seen enough to write this review. so when i first saw the trailer for red steel 
 posted right here on game spot i thought wow i gota get it. so i finally did and in a way im impressed 
 in another way im not. first off the graphics were a pretty big complaint in gamespot's review 
 i didn't notice many graphical flaws, i personnaly thought this game had nice graphics and lighting, 
 but not the best. Another complaint is the sound, though the music kicks in at very good times 
 like right in the middle of an intense gun fight. the vioce acting is absolutly terrible people 
 in the game sound cheesy and hard to understand. Now for the gameplay on my grandparent's 32 flat 
 screen tv aiming in red steel was a pain. but when i moved it to my smaller 17 tv the aiming got 
 a lot better. So red steel has some goods and some bads if you think it looks good you should definatly 
 try this . but if it doesnt look interetsing to you then avoid it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polaris550
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 24, 2007 5:45 am PT
Review:  Red steel is fun, but it's for the Wii so that means you have to stand up for a long time and you 
 can get tired after a long time of standing up for an hour or 2. It is very fun once you get used 
 to the controls. There are some problems in the game (unless you have a very still hand) . For example 
 when you are trying to throw a grenade with the nunchuck, you are still aiming with the Wii Remote. 
 So unless you can throw a grenade with one hand and point where you want to throw it with other 
 hand, then you shouldn't have many problems with this game (You might want to sit down some times 
 when you are playing) . And the loading screen are very fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninjap00
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 23, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Sure, it's got a basic storyline and all, but there are some experiences of this game, that are, 
 personally, quite fun.
  
  So you're saving your girlfriend from a gang of Japanese thugs and they want your special sword, 
 the Katana Giri. You go through your way of shooting (or sparing) the many gangsters of the clan 
 with a variety of weapons, including rifles, autos and pistols.
  
  Shooting is really rather simple. You just point your Wii remote at the screen, and you fire with 
 the trigger (B) . You can even tilt the controller left and right to rotate the on-screen wrist 
 of the character. Though if you are to shoot a thug in the body, it usually seems like they don't 
 react to much to it; they just sort of walk right through it. Shooting your enemies, especially 
 in the head, is really quite pleasureable, as ragdoll physics come into play. Unfortunately, these 
 physics get really glitchy and they mostly don't look that real. Reloading is as easy as shaking 
 the Nunchuck attachment up and down. Sword-fighting is basic and a bit boring. You will swing your 
 Wii remote as if it were a sword. You use a Nunchuck attachment as a half of a Katana, and you 
 use it to parry and block an incoming enemy attack by simply swinging it in any direction. You 
 can also dodge by press C and pressing left or right on the control stick simultaneously, which 
 can be real helpful. You cannot stab with your sword, but you will be able to learn special moves 
 later on in the game.
  
  Ubisoft didn't to an excellent job with this installment of a Wii shooter, but it's a nice experience 
 in some parts of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jim_uk
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 23, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  When Ubisoft announced its support for the Wii I felt this was a good thing as no one wanted the 
 Wii to suffer from the same lack of games its predecessor suffered from. After playing both Far 
 Cry and Red Steel Im beginning to think their support is more of a curse than a blessing. Red 
 steel looks an ideal game for the Wiimote with its mix of shooting and swordplay and it would 
 have been if the developers had shown a bit of pride in their work and not made such a mess of 
 it.
  
  Controls
  
  The controls for the shooting parts of the game work well and where you aim is generally where 
 you hit, however the mandatory sword fights you must engage in are awful. The movements you make 
 with the Wiimote bare no resemblance to what happens on the screen, sometime it takes three or 
 four swings to get something to happen on screen. The poor sword fighting control system is OK 
 in the beginning when the fights are easy but later on when the difficulty is cranked up it gets 
 infuriating. The is also no explanation as to why the character would put away his gun so he can 
 have a sword fight, he's supposed to be in a hurry to save the damsel in distress. Graphics
  
  The graphics vary from OK to awful, they would have been fine on the Dreamcast but by todays 
 standards they are sub par. Graphics aint everything I hear you cry and your right but when 
 I cant tell if its a gunman or barrel across the room then that affects the Gameplay which is 
 important. There are a few half decent lighting effects but they seem to drag the frame rate down 
 spoiling whatever affect they may have had. ,
  Sound
  
  The gunfire and explosion sounds are decent enough, nothing to get excited about but they do the 
 job, however the NPCs taunts and the voice acting in general are terrible. The NPCs will shout 
 the same childish taunts over and over again and the acting in the cut scenes is so poor it makes 
 the voice acting in Bethesdas Oblivion sound good.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The shooting parts of the game play well enough and until the novelty of the control system starts 
 to wear off its great fun, however the sword fighting elements quickly make you forget any fun 
 you had with the shooting and ruin what little this game had going for it. What we have here is 
 a poor shooter thats only made mildly enjoyable by the Wiis unique control system, had this been 
 on any other console then it would have gone straight in the bargain bin within a week. I know 
 its early days for the Wii and devs need to get used to the system but there was no excuse for 
 releasing this game in its current condition.
  
  If you must really buy this game wait until its in the bargain bin and dont whatever you do pay 
 full price for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robbishrob04
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  why gamespot crapped all over this game and gave it a 5.5. despite the review gamespot laid upon 
 this game its actually really good.
  
  Gameplay: the controls are no where as bad as this sites review says they are, i actually quite 
 enjoyed them. theres only one instance where the controls are even slightly faulty and thats if 
 your sitting too far away from the TV the aim gets a little touchy.
  Graphics: at times the visuals for this game are stunning. the lighting and explosion effects were 
 done very well. its kinda like Zelda TP, throughout the game there were parts that looked absolutely 
 incredible and other times they were just.... eh.
  Sound: the audio for this game is the same as any other FPS (flying bullets, gunshots....) all 
 sound good. the only complaints i have with the sound is the terrible voice acting.
  
  overall id give this game about an 8, despite what gamespot says. i wouldn't necessarily pay 50 
 bucks for it, but if you can find it on half. com or something for 30... id really suggest picking 
 this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolf360rev
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 21, 2007 4:22 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  Swords I was hoping this part of the game would be good, but it is not the controlls are a bit 
 frustrating and I see delays in the motion sensing ability.
  That if swing the wii-mote you will notice the delay. This is my one of my major problems in the 
 game.
  
  Guns
  
  This part is actually good the gunplay controlls are a lot better then the swords really no problems 
 here except it may take you a while to get use to the camera. Graphics
  
  Rushed they could have been a lot better take your time ubisoft your one of my favorite companies, 
 I have seen better graphics on the cube.
  This area needs a lot of work.
  
  Sound This also needs a lot of work nothing I have not heard in the past, ubsisoft your sinking.
 
  
  Overall
  
  Ubisoft should took there time on this game and make it a lot better. Like for instance if they 
 took there time they could have added online play, which could have help the game dramtically. 
 That I could say this is decent but I would rent it or wait for a price drop if you plan on buying 
 it. That there is just a few problems here and there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DTbikerider9
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 20, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel is a title that came out with the wii and the seems like its development was kinda rushed 
 and the game is often broken yet threw many flaws red steel is still a good shooter with a lott 
 of fun. Gameplay: Its good as you all know about the horrid controlls but really they dont take 
 that long to get used to. Besides the controlls the gameplay is pretty solid yet you will find 
 yourself randomly turning and having arm spazims you never knew you had. The shooter asspect is 
 fun but gets old quick you point you shoot you point you shoot at the same guys saying the same 
 things on what looks like the same levels. The sword fighting is fun at first but later gets down 
 right redicioulous same moves over and over but whats that I get to learn a new move ahhh who really 
 cares. All in all the gameplay is fun and offers an average shooter that you can enjoy but just 
 forget about the sword fights.
  
  Story line: Wow just Wow this story line is weaker then I cant even say anything weaker than it. 
 your girlfriend gets kidnapped by a bunch of japaneise gangsters which begins your quest to getting 
 her back yet the story soon turns into a fight for a valuable sword called the katana giri. It 
 is somewhat long and respect points, accuracy, time and other factors play in the game finished 
 percent so be a sniper who takes a short time to kill and respects crazy gangsters who pull swords 
 on you and you'll do well in the game. The begining is weak the ending maybe even weaker.
  
  Graphics and Sound: The graphics are pretty good for the wii's standards and some sceens are 
 beautiful and elegent, others offer loads loads of fun because of the destroyable envirements. 
 Sounds good enough right? right!'the sound in the game is decent and is just what you would acspect 
 from an average game but some of the japeneise gangsters sounded like I sounded like in the second 
 grade, hold still , freeze! it can get REALLY annoying.
  
  Overall red steel offers a good shooter bad sword fighter with a horrable strory line and controlls 
 that aren't as bad as some say you just have to play it for yourself I give it a 7.5 out of 10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvader654
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 20, 2007 12:37 am PT
Review:  Red Steel is the first FPS I played on the Wii, this is significant cause much of my enjoyment 
 of the game comes from just being immersed with the controls. Forgetting its the Wii and just looking 
 at the game, Red Steel is just an average FPS at best. Like I said before, it almost feels like 
 I was playing an N64 FPS, we have come so far that to play something this simple is jarring. All 
 the stages are basically corridors, every once and a while you enter a large sized room but nothing 
 major. There is no large scale battles, no massive scripted events. Its basically walk into room, 
 few guys pop out, you shoot and kill. There are some unique levels that make the game a bit more 
 enjoyable so at least it tries to change it up a bit. The guns are all standard, nothing to see 
 here. You have a focus bar, when you use it you freeze everything for a short period and you can 
 tag enemies or their weapons, then you will automatically shot them. It works well but it seems 
 like a move just thrown in there so you can get out of massive fire fights. It doesn't add any 
 enjoyment of skill to the game. Sword fighting is interesting and provides a welcome change of 
 pace. As you play on you learn new moves and the battles become more frequent. The problem is all 
 fights play out the same. They attack, you parry, you attack, they do a super attack, you dodge, 
 you attack, repeat. Its just way to basic. The only reason I would tell anyone to play this game 
 is just to experience the controls, it just adds an extra layer of fun to FPSs. In this game you 
 need to shake the nunchuck to turn tables, or open doors, or throw grenades, you sword fight, you 
 aim by pushing the wiimote forward, there is just a ton of moves that involves you physically doing 
 something. I really enjoyed having that type of involvement, I think when applied to a more adventure 
 type game, like MP3, it will blow people away. Yet the controls are not without their own issues. 
 Aiming can be hard at times, especially when turning. For some reason so many actions are mapped 
 to the nunchuck that things don't work as you want it too. Say you want to do a melee attack, you 
 need to get close then an icon will show that you can do it, you need to push the nunchuck up, 
 but many times it just wont register but it will register you moving back down and reload your 
 gun. So now you are standing in front of this guy reloading your gun while you are being killed. 
 In sword fights some moves with the nunchuck are near impossible to get to work. Grenade throwing 
 can be a pain too, instead of doing the throwing motion it just goes by moving up or down, those 
 motions are the opposite of the real thing, if you want to throw overhand natural you would throw 
 downward, but you have to move up to do so which is the natural movement for underhand. I probably 
 making it sound much worse than it is, its just little things that get in the way sometimes, for 
 the most part the control scheme works and I would love to play FPSs like this from now on.
  
  The graphics are nasty, this would be an average PS2 game. The only saving grace is some nice 
 lighting and particle effects on some levels. The sound is great, so is the music, its a cool blend 
 of Japanese sounding music with techno or rock. The game clocks in around 9 hours, you can try 
 to get better rankings in the levels if you would like. There is multiplayer but I didn't get a 
 chance to try it.
  
  Red Steel would be completely forgettable if it was not on the Wii. Nothing really stands out in 
 the game, there are so many better FPSs out there. You can tell no effort went in to polish the 
 game up, its incredibly rough in all areas. But it is a showcase for the Wii controls and that 
 alone can make the whole experience a rather enjoyable one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doylen05
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 19, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  this game is a awsume wii game it has changed the way wii look at fps the but every great game 
 has a set back am sorry to say the sowrd fights are slightly out of sync but there are many diffrent 
 sowrd moves to pic up as the game prosides and there is an othere point the fps dont have ..... focus 
 ,focus alows u to slow down time for a sertin amount of time (depending on the focus bar) with this 
 u can disable enamys or kill them also the music is a toko / dance mix so if u can understand wat 
 i am saying that this game is underrated and should be rated higher a top game to buy ......... a 
 WII esental 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Knight6
Rating: 6.9
Date: Feb 19, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel was a very promising game for the new Nintendo Wii. With fun gun fights and realistic 
 sword fights. You play as Scott, a man who is engaged to a yakuza boss' daughter. After she is 
 kidnapped by a rival clan, Scott is sent to save his wife-to-be. Gameplay: 7/10
  The gameplay is fun at first but gets boring real quick. The cursor will jump to the end of the 
 screen and send your character spinning in circles right in the middle of a gun fight. The sword 
 fights are also pretty fun at first but become boring real fast. The formula is pretty much parry 
 with your secondary sword and swing the wii-mote like crazy. Graphics 7/10
  The graphics are nothing special for most part. The character models are pretty crappy and most 
 of the enviornments are pretty dull too. There are some parts of the enviornment (shiny floors, 
 ceiling, etc) that look pretty good but overall, the game could have been done on the gamecube.
 
  
  6/10
  The sound is definetly not the strongest point of the game. The music is pretty boring and plays 
 over-and-over again throughout a level. The voice acting for the game is bad and most of the enemies 
 have the same exact voices throughout thhe entire game. Overall, Red Steel had potential but is 
 plagued by repetative fights and glitches. I'd give it a 6.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperSonic223
Rating: 6.9
Date: Feb 19, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw Red Steel, I thought it was going to be apart of the Wii's first batch of great 
 games, but I was left slightly disappointed. To start out when I got the Wii this was the second 
 game I started to play and, using the pointer to aim was very difficult at first. Not only that 
 but there is also a minor glitch that come up every once in a while, where you have the pointer 
 centered on the screen and there is a slight shake. The use of the Wii-mote motions were pretty 
 good, shows the ideas are heading in the right direction. I thought the gun play was good, not 
 really any different from the average shooter, the AI slowly gets better as you progress through 
 the game. You also get a cool bullet time ability half way through the game which is pretty useful 
 throughout the later parts of the game. Throwing grenades is pretty cool too, but it wasn't responsive 
 enough at times. Sword fighting wasn't a complete disaster, some fun to be had with it; seemed 
 to be very tacked on, all the sword fights were staged throughout levels.
  
  The music was pretty cool for the most part. The plot is pretty bad, your #1 objective as the main 
 character Scott is to save your fiance and the Japanese accents on the characters voices will just 
 seem funny to you. It's best if you ignore the plot all together.
  
  There's not much to say about the multiplayer, just feels like every other shooter. Overall Red 
 Steel isn't a horrible game, it was still a disappointment, I wanted to play this game almost as 
 much as Zelda when I got the Wii at launch. If you really need a shooter fix on the Wii, then by 
 all means get this, otherwise I would suggest that you rent this or wait patiently for Metriod 
 Prime 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sauska_sun
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 18, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  It is really good. The controls arnt so bad and its way easier with the wiimote. Some times it 
 takes a while to turn around but its not terrible. I got this game and I dont regreat getting this. 
 Good FPS out for wii so far. Only bad thing about it is that it gets really hard wants you advance 
 farther in the the levels and its so easy to die and it seems like the enimes start respawning 
 if you stay in a place for so long. Also its missing online. If this game was online it would be 
 the best game out there and would of done better but it really doesnt need online but it would 
 of been awesome. Good guns but horrible story. I would buy this game and im sure you'll be pleased 
 with your purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aflactive
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 18, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel had a ton of hype, so it was natural that a lot of people bought it. Most were dissapointed 
 though, because of the poor graphics, fairly long learning curve, and the sucky storyline that 
 most see as just an excuse to start shooting people. But because of the Wii controls and how easy 
 it is to use them once you get used to them, its a helluva lot better than it would be on a normal 
 console.
  
  Gameplay - 9/10
  
  Basically, your girlfriend, the daughter of a Japanese gang leader, has been kidnapped by a traitor 
 that used to be allies with her father. Her father, Sato, was wounded during the attack and dies 
 later. He sends you to Japan to save his daughter, your girlfriend, and you are plunged into a 
 brutal gang war. The story is a little more complex than that, but its all about honor and things 
 that Japanese people would probably respect more. The game is divided into various missions, in 
 which you shoot just about everything that moves. For some reason, you never wind up shooting any 
 girls... I think. There are various weapons, which include Uzis, shotguns, grenades, handguns, a 
 rifle, and some machine-guns, but you can only hold up to two at a time, which gets annoying. You 
 also get in swordfights at certain points in each level, which are usually pretty easy. The Wii 
 controls feel awkward at first, but since the enemies in the beginning of the game will walk right 
 up to you and fire for five seconds and still not shoot you, and your health recovers if you don't 
 get shot in a few seconds, they aren't all that hard to learn. Once you get the hang of them, its 
 incredibly precise and easy to use. When you get farther into the game, it gets much more difficult.
 
  
  Only bad thing about the gameplay is that the game itself is that it's packed with glitches... You'd 
 be really lucky to get through the game without finding one and having to restart from a checkpoint 
 or restart the entire mission.
  
  Graphics - 7/10
  
  The graphics in Red Steel aren't really all that bad, they're just... outdated. Since the Wii has 
 stronger graphic capablities than the original Xbox, they could've been much better... Then again, 
 I've played RE4 too man times.
  If I had an Xbox 360 or a PS3, I would probably hate the graphics a lot more.
  The main problem 
 with the graphics is that there's almost no blood... And for a game named RED Steel, that's not 
 good. Sure, when you shoot someone in the head, which I do all the time, you can see a tiny bit 
 of orangeish stuff come out, but its barely visible and doesn't look like blood.
  
  Sound - 7/10
  
  The music in this game is pretty good, and it would be a lot better... If there 
 wasn't an extremely annoying Japanese pop song in the game that plays on a few missions. The other 
 sound tracks are catchy easy to put up with. The voice acting is kinda annoying, because of the 
 stupid stuff people say...
  For example, the first people you fight (I think) say, There's another one. Let's kill him! Some 
 people (There's about 7 different voices for the American enemies, and about 5 for the Japanese 
 ones) will say stuff like, Shoot you in the face! But that's about as bad as it gets.
  
  The sound effects are the best part of the audio; they sound perfect and exactly like they should... except 
 they glitch up every now and then. For example, on the last mission, there were a ton of people 
 with machine-guns, and after I killed one the shooting sound effect kept going. I thought it was 
 normal for a while, until I died and it went away.
  
  Value - 8/10
  
  The game has a multiplayer mode, which I haven't played yet (Only have one Wii Remote) , so that 
 should make it last longer. The control scheme is fun to mess around with, and once you complete 
 the game you can replay missions to try to get a 100% completion rating... I'm not sure there's 
 any point in doing that, though. Pros
  *Unique, easy to use controls
  *Has multiplayer (Not sure if it's any good or not)
  *Fairly long campaign mode Cons
  *Outdated 
 graphics
  *Long learning curve
  *A lot of glitches...
  *AI sometimes stand there waiting for you to shoot them
  *Would be a bad FPS game without Wii 
 controls
  
  This game was definitely worth my $50. If you were planning on whether or not to get it, you should 
 too... But if you are obsessed with FPS games like Halo or TPS games like Gears of War, or if you 
 can't handle bad graphics, you might want to rent this, because it has a lot of flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anman4707
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 16, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  When Ubisoft anounced Red Stell I was so excited I could hardly wait. I knew Call of Duty and Far 
 Cry were coming but Red Steel excited me most with sword fighting. I was sourly dissapointed when 
 it came time to play it.
  
  The story line is very simple, and not original at all. You play as the boyfriend of a gang leader's 
 daughter. Her father (the gang leader) comes to meet you after you propose to her. She gets kidnapped 
 by a rival gang and you set off to find her.
  
  The controls sloppilly at first but once you get used to it the controls are very rewarding. The 
 B button is shotting and you move the person with the nunchuk. This is a great first try, but to 
 throw grenades or switch weopons you have to go all the way to the D-Pad which is very hard in 
 the heat of battle. Even though the AI is pretty smart this game is fairly short.
  
  Multiplayer is what I was really looking fowarrd to, but it wasnt all that great. I didnt have the 
 chance to try it with more than two people, but with two people the envirnments were entirely too 
 big. It took 5 minutes to find your opponent, then 30 seconds of fighting, then repeat. If you 
 were playing with four people it might be better but not with two people.
  
  All in all this is a good first try for the Wii FPS. This game should lay the design for future 
 games on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Last_Jedi33
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 13, 2007 5:01 am PT
Review:  Red Steel has been totally ripped to shreds, Oh, it's poor multiplayer, it's terrible bugs, it 
 has bad graphics! Has the world gotten this bad as to tear apart this truly fantastic game?
  
  This is an interesting game from the beginning, as a hapless bodyguard about to marry the daughter 
 of a crime boss, (who has turned into an honorable man) , you are plunged into a conflict with the 
 entire Tokyo underground, struggling to save your fianc&eacute;. In order to survive, you must 
 learn the ways of the sword and the warrior.
  
  OK, sounds a little cheesy, I know, but really, this game is great. The character development is 
 amazing, and soon you really will be fighting for honor and for the people you care about. The 
 thing with this game is, that once the game gets going, it branches, making sure that you never 
 have the same game experience twice.
  
  The controls of this game make it all the more amazing, being a launch title for the Wii, they 
 had to demonstrate just exactly what the Wii-mote and the Nunchuk were capable of. The one area 
 where it's a little lacking, (and this of course is going to happen on all Wii games) is that if 
 you move your pointer off the screen, you start spinning, and it can get a little annoying.
  
  The controls take a little while to catch on in the beginning, but soon, you'll be swinging 
 your sword like a true Samurai. You'll actually be surprised how simple you'll find it after you 
 actually get into the game, from flipping switches, to flipping over tables for cover, you'll begin 
 to do things without even thinking about it. Making the control scheme truly something to be appreciated.
 
  
  Although the graphics aren't revolutionary, that's not saying that they aren't good. It's exactly 
 what you would hope and expect out of it. The cut-scenes are interesting, because they are more 
 comic-bookish. They aren't exactly that, of course, but you'll soon grow to appreciate them, more 
 than you would an entire movie (We know how much fun that can be...) .
  
  The multiplayer isn't the terrible, glitchy, cheap thing that everyone talks about. They've spent 
 too much time home alone on their Xbox playing Halo 2, and while they're comparable, they're also 
 drastically different. Making the multiplayer of Red Steel, something new and unique.
  
  In the end, with the evolving game-play, the character development, and the fact that you can't 
 do the same thing twice, you'll be wanting more. You'll be amazed to find, that if you actually 
 get into the game, and play for the spirit, you really will like Red Steel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zerostatic0
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 30, 2007 5:31 am PT
Review:  I was originally going to get Red Steel at launch, however due to the bad reviews I changed my 
 preorder. However, people who actually owened the game said it was better then the reviews would 
 lead you to believe so I said what the heck, and decided to give it a try. I would have to say 
 it was a little better then I expected.
  
  GAMEPLAY - The levels are long, yet very linear. I think this actually works well with the wii-mote, 
 as the control scheme makes turning a bit slower then the typical FPS but the levels are designed 
 so you don't have to be rapidly and frequently turning. Still it would have been fun if you could 
 explore a little or go through levels in different ways. Some say there is a learning curve with 
 the controls, but I picked them up right away. Aiming and shooting with Wiimote in general feels 
 pretty good. The biggest problems with the controls are that the cursor seems a little buggy at 
 times, and reportedly this can be fixed by turning off the wii-mote speaker. The enemies are generic 
 and are not very smart. Personally, I liked the sword fights. I would've liked a bit more variance 
 in the weapons, but I guess that would have been out of place in a game set in contemporary times 
 (i. e. Japanese Mafia don't carry Gravity guns, and BFGs) . GRAPHICS - Sometimes it was pretty good 
 with decently detailed models and environments. However at other times it looks a bit bland. I'd 
 have to say they were a inconsistent. Some of the lighting was impressive. Overall, I'd say the 
 graphics are respectable and while I'm sure the Wii can do better, it still looks better then the 
 average PS2 or Gamecube FPS, and at the very least are not ugly. VALUE - The single player is about 
 average in length for a FPS. The game has local multi-player which is actually quite fun. Online 
 multiplayer would have done wonders for it's replay-ability but is not included.
  
  Overall, I'd like to say that while this game is technically not a great game, if you're a FPS 
 fan and want something a little original, it might be worth checking out. Definitely look for it 
 in the bargin bin though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamecuber28
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 17, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  GOOD: Great approach on FPS controls, nice destructible environments, very nice explosions.
  
  BAD: Numerous and noticeable bugs and glitches, you can't skip the cut scenes even after you 
 beat the game, some sword attacks are slightly unresponsive, multiplayer mode is underwhelming.
 
  
  I would like to point out this is my first review for Wii and also my first game that uses the 
 good and bad system. Moving on to the game, Red Steel is a first person-shooter that takes place 
 in modern day Japan. You play Scott, a guy who is about to meet his fiance's dad when all hell 
 breaks loose you get knocked out and your girlfriend is kidnapped. This game has standard first 
 person shooter protocols. You travel through levels shooting thugs that appear everywhere. But 
 then there are the swords fights which are challenging but can be unresponsive and repetitive at 
 times. There is a nice selection of guns and the explosions and destructible environments make 
 the firefights that more exciting. The graphics themselves on the other hand aren't bad for a launch 
 game but the bugs and glitches prevent them from looking their best. The multiplayer mode, while 
 it serves it's purpose it is pretty underwhelming because the graphics get scaled down badly, all 
 of the guns and items are now 2-D paper-looking cutouts. There are also some audio problems with 
 the guns firing and reloading, and the sniper rifle's reload animation stops half-way through but 
 the sound of it reloading continues, not to mention there are only 4 levels to choose from. Overall 
 Red Steel isn't a half-bad game and it's problems I guess are to be expected from a launch title, 
 so let's hope they can do better next time, if there is a next time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnnyRageing
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 10, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  Alright This Game Is Either Very Good Or Kind of Awfull. The Graphics Could Of Been Touched Up, The 
 Main Character Could Of Had A Voice Oh and Its A Short Adventure... But A Pretty Impressive Gameplay. 
 Who Doesent Want To Feel Like There Fighting With A Sword And Shooting At Idiot's Who Mumble Stupid 
 Things And Often Repeat. Grind's My Gears!! -Any Way Good Sword Fight's And Exciting Gun Action 
 Isent Enough To Save The Rest Of The Game. The Story is Told Very Sloppy But Carrys Itself ..... Well 
 Its Dragging It Self. Other Then That I cant discribe the rest of its crappynes But I Can Say Its 
 A Fun Action Game To Pick Up With Your Wii, Because Its One Of The Game's That Launched With The 
 System You Gotta Cut It Some Slack And Look Past The Negative Stuff Like Glitche's And The Stuff 
 I Already Mentioned And Look At Its Potential To Be A Good Game That Utilizes Action In The Game 
 To Be Done Like Fliping Table And Opening Doors With Your Controll As If You Were There In The 
 Game. All In All Im Impressed But Not That Impressed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  YUCK! this game is bad. And all the reviews made me want to buy it and when i did!!!! IT WAS SO 
 BAD! not only the controlls were absolutely terrible but the... story the plot the whole thing.....
 
  
  THE SWORD omgsh! it was so inacurate and terrible! i whould slash right and up and my guy whould 
 just sit there and maybe block and turn left. WTF!
  
  And picking up weapons shooting aiming OH MAN you just can\'t! this game doesn\'t even deserve 
 a 5 or even a 4....
  
  I WAS SO DISSIPOINTED AT THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  
  
  want more info??
  
  okay!.....
  anyways 
 they don\'t even have moving mouthes when they talk and the controlling the view of where you are 
 is terrible. If you played Gears of war for 5 minutes you\'de destroy this game.
  
  i can't believe i bought it. ti's quality was so bad. the graphics were terrible. and its supposeddly 
 NEX-GEN and yet the mouths don't even move. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sodpzz
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 9, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel is a good example about what the Wii remote is capable of. The game is full of action 
 and makes shooting Asians fun. But after a while the game play gets monotonous and very glitchy. 
 The graphics are more artsy then visually appealing, but the lighting effects are very real. Overall 
 the game is an okay shooter but not the jewel everyone expected it to be. Multiplayer is okay but 
 it goes by very slowly and the screen seems to small for all of your arm movements to make. The 
 voice acting is very nice. Again, the game is a some what of a model for other FPS games on the 
 Wii. (please let them be better.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ptolemaueus
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 8, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel, promising a unique blend of shooting and swordfighting, quickly became one of the more 
 hyped games for Nintendo's Wii console. But is Red Steel any good? Does it live up to the hype? 
 Sadly, no.
  
  You play as Scott, a bodyguard and fiance to the daughter of a Yakuza mob boss. Everything goes 
 wrong quite quickly; the girl is kidnapped by one of her father's own men and the father himself 
 is murdered. To get the girl back, you must master the art of swordplay as well as shooting. It 
 makes for an interesting setup, to be sure.
  
  Red Steel's two main gameplay aspects are cutting people up with your katana and blowing them up 
 with whatever firearms you happen to come across. Shooting works well and feels a lot like a light 
 gun game at the arcade. The Wii remote, which controls where you point your gun, provides great 
 accuracy and makes for some fun shootouts. Turning is where the game struggles. When you move your 
 aiming reticule to the side of the screen, your character begins to turn. This feels extremely 
 sluggish and doesn't exactly help when you're being fired at from the side. To replenish your health, 
 you can take cover. You're not some superhuman, you're a fairly average person. The regenerating 
 health feels extremely out of place. The shooting, all things considered, is decent but may feel 
 a bit like a shooting gallery.
  
  Using your sword isn't quite as good as shooting people. For one thing, why do you need to use 
 your sword at all? Why can't you just pull out your gun and shoot your opponent? Anyway, in swordfighting 
 you try to bring your opponent's health to zero or break his sword. The Wii remote acts as your 
 sword and the nunchuk becomes a smaller blade you use to block attacks. Like what you try to reduce 
 your adversary's health to, you get zero sense of physical contact in swordplay. The onscreen sword 
 doesn't emulate your movements and not an ounce of blood is spilled, contradicting the name as 
 there is never any red on steel. You can only swing your blade and several other attacks, but your 
 opponent will be able to stab you and do powerful attacks that break through your defenses. When 
 children are quite young, they may pick up a branch or stick and pretend it is a sword. They might 
 also whack each other with it. That's what Red Steel's swordfighting feels like: two children beating 
 each other with sticks. There's not much skill involved.
  
  The graphics in Red Steel are rather nice. Everything has a crisp and polished look to it. A good 
 amount of objects in the environment are destructible as well. The outdoor areas tend to look better 
 than indoor ones since they have much more detail to them and the indoor ones seem a bit bland. 
 The character models are decent as well. Red Steel is one of the prettier Wii launch titles, but 
 none of this couldn't have been done on the Gamecube a couple years ago. Cut scenes take place 
 either within the game (and are unskippable) as well as in motionless montages. The montages look 
 okay, but whenever there is motion it feels out of place and looks strange. Lighting in this game 
 looks good, too. The explosions look spectacular. There are a few odd glitches, such as dead bodies 
 twitching (this one happens quite often) and several others. Again, everything looks decent considering 
 other games on the Wii, but technologically Red Steel is nothing special.
  
  Music in this game is pretty good. Most of it sounds Japanese and accents the setting and themes 
 of the game. The sound effects, too, are good. Especially the guns, which sound great. The Wii 
 remote speaker usually makes the sound of your gun reloading and your cell phone ringing, and it 
 isn't overused. Voice acting is where Red Steel stumbles. The Americans all sound fine, but the 
 dialogue for enemies is goofy. People who are shooting at you are calling you a sucker and a moron 
 , which is just lame. When you fight against Japanese gunners, their stupid taunts don't change, 
 which is just being lazy. The Yakuza shouldn't be calling you a sucker or a moron in the first 
 place, but when they sound like Americans when they do so shows how lazy Ubisoft was in the voice 
 acting department. When you speak with Japanese characters, their accents sound faked and the quality 
 of the voicework is bad as well.
  
  Red Steel lasts a few hours over 10, and beyond that there isn't much. Personally, I didn't feel 
 the need to replay any of the levels to get a better score like I did with other games. The multiplayer 
 gives you only 4 maps and several modes which are mostly variations on death match, so it isn't 
 too much to talk about. Beyond the main game, there isn't much to do.
  
  PROS:
  + Shooting portions are fun.
  + The Wii remote provides some good accuracy.
  + Sound effects, 
 graphics, and music are pretty good.
  
  CONS:
  - Sword fighting is bad.
  - The graphics could have been done on the Gamecube a few years ago.
  - Voice acting is horrible.
 
  - Multiplayer isn't very deep.
  - Turning is sluggish.
  
  Red Steel doesn't live up to expectations. It's not a terrible game, but that doesn't mean it couldn't 
 have used some more work. The final product feels rushed. Ubisoft made a pretty decent game, but 
 they could have done better. Red Steel warrants at least a rental. Just don't buy it unless you 
 really liked it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enrique_marrodz
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 7, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  As most FPS may be, this is really focused in shooting endless foes, adding the sword fight as 
 (sub) boss fights.
  
  The story is about you working as bodyguard to a big boss in the japanese mafia, and then being 
 engaged to her daughter. This is when the fun starts because a traitor in the organization, in 
 an unexpected strike, kidnaps your fiance and injures deadly to your future father in law.
  
  At this point you'll begin a chase to save your girl, form a common front with the elder japanese 
 bosses, learn some very cool moves and shoot as many foes as possible.
  
  The game sports some very nice environments and cool and detailed graphics, as well as some cool 
 explosions. Sadly enough this is not consistent as you may find some glitches that can downgrade 
 your experience. Also, the lack of certain expected effects in certain environments are disapointing, 
 like in some very dark areas where you have to play with minimal light sources, the least you can 
 expect is some flashing lights from the shooting, like in Call of Duty 3, but this never happens.
 
  
  The sound is good enough and adds a lot to some gunfights, but in general there is not much to 
 say about dialogues (this is a very difficult point because my native language is Spanish and several 
 Ubisoft games are dubbed in Castillian Spanish, which sounds pretty odd to most of the americans 
 like myself) . In any case, the voice over acting sounds flat and uninspired most of the time.
 
  
  The gameplay is really good, but it requires you to adapt a FPS model where your ability to turn 
 fast may be compromised with your abilitie to re-locate yourself. Let me explain further. You'll 
 turn when you reach almost the edge of the screen, so you can point very nice when you're not moving, 
 but if you need to turn abruptly, then you 'll need to find very quick how's your new position 
 in relation to the enemies, because you'll need to do a very large movement which difficults to 
 keep precise aiming.
  
  There are several other movements mapped to the motion sensing scheme, like reloading or tossing 
 grenades, opening doors or activating some mechanisms. In general all of them work just fine.
 
  
  Finally, the sword fighting, as a big differentiator from other shooters, is a mixed reactions 
 experience. Aside from the basic movements, later in the game you'll be able to learn some other 
 moves to increase damage and improve your chances to win, even breaking your opponent's weapon.
 
  
  The fact is that, despite the fact that you can customize if you prefer to do large or short movements 
 to control your sword, it tends to be unconsistent the response from your character. So, sometimes, 
 when trying to perform your best and recent learned combo, you end with a motionless and unresponsive 
 heroe which suffers a serie of continuos strike 'till dead!
  
  Note also that, although the game have a lot of linearity it allows some exploration in order to 
 outcome some challenges from different point of views. Unfortunately there are few elements to 
 encourage exploration, as they are no much of hidden bonuses or extra content.
  
  There is also a multiplayer option with split screen, but is very limited and doesn't have too 
 much replay value.
  
  Overall, is a very decent attemp to explore Wii's capabilities to FPS, and I recommend you to, 
 at least, try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DEWMAN08
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 6, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game, and liked it at first. The videos and cutscenes are done in... a different 
 style, but I thought they were decent. The gameplay is at first fun, but it soon becomes dull and 
 it feels the same level after level, sword fight after sword fight. The sound is decent, the controls 
 feel good, but it did take some time to get used to the controls and how it all breaks down. I 
 never tried out the multiplayer, it too seems dull with only 4 players maximum and no online. I 
 would recommend a rental, but not worth $50, wait until there are better shooters on the Wii. I 
 cannot wait until they bring out some good shooters to the Wii, but until then, this game is not 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadwell-
Rating: 5.1
Date: Feb 5, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  Red Steel was the first game announced for the Nintendo Wii, and its great promise was to be the 
 first implementation of the two most obvious things everyone thought of for the consoles unique 
 control scheme, namely first person shooting and sword fighting. So, in order that you can use 
 a samurai sword and guns, the game is set in the Japanese underworld, although setting it amongst 
 the American mafia and using a baseball bat would have yielded the same results, as when wielding 
 a sword youll feel more Toshiro Yufune than Toshiro Mifune, because while theoretically Red Steel 
 is a brilliant idea, the implementation of pretty much every play mechanic is downright terrible. 
 Swinging the remote doesnt feel like an elegant blade, it feels like a leaden club without any 
 sense of a 1:1 relationship between your hand movement and the on-screen action. Youd think that 
 youd be able to wave your arms around and feel amazing, but you cant even jab.
  
  Even worse is the way the game is balanced between the shooting and slicing. Rather than letting 
 you dual-wield the two types of weapon and go at it Dante style, at various points in the game 
 youll walk into a room, spot a solitary man carrying a sword and the game puts your guns away 
 and pulls out your katana! Indiana Jones would just cap the guy and be done with it, but no, you 
 have to fight the guy one on one, trying to stun him with one hand, and then flailing about with 
 the other, trying to get a combo going! If there was a sense of you being some kind of noble character 
 with a moral code, maybe the mechanic would work, but during every gunfight someone will call you 
 a bloody gaijin, because youre actually playing as a good old white American, a choice which 
 reeks of stereotypical marketing. While the sword fighting is terrible, the shooting itself could 
 certainly be worse, although it could also be a lot lot better. When the Wii controls were announced, 
 there was comparison made to the mouse and keyboard. In the case of Red Steel, its no comparison 
 at all, and at times doesnt even feel as good as a pair of analogue sticks. With some practice 
 its not too bad, but the aids put into the game, like a slight lock-on and zoom mode, activated 
 by moving your right hand closer to the TV are more of a hindrance. When youre stood still you 
 can pick off head shots pretty well, and using a shotgun actually feels pretty cool, so theres 
 quite a bit of promise, but a lot of frustration in some pretty hectic firefights.
  
  Given that the Gamecube produced consistently impressive looking games and the Wii has more (maybe 
 only slightly, but still more) power, there really isnt any excuse for Red Steel looking like 
 a PS2 port. Textures and character models look incredibly dated and nowhere near the Resi 4 benchmark. 
 The cutscenes are animated in a way which is intended to look artistic and stylish, and might do 
 if they were on a DS as theyre not that far removed from something like Phoenix Wright, but on 
 a home console look incredibly cheap. That theyre so basic is also strange because theyre surrounded 
 by the good old spinning disc loading animation when youd expect the loading to be disguised 
 by those cutscenes (all of which are unskippable - this is the next generation right?) . OK, so 
 it is a launch game and has obviously been rushed, and given some more time, maybe a lot of the 
 issues with the game could have been worked out, but thats still no reason to fall into the trap 
 of getting it because youve finished Zelda and want something else to pass the time until better 
 games come out for the system. As a rental its probably worth it, and maybe a couple of hours 
 fun could be had from the basic multiplayer, but as a full price purchase, stay well clear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 4, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel proves that The Wii's new control scheme can pull off a FPS game pretty well. However, 
 Red steel fouls up a ton before the end, leaving some hating the game.
  
  Gameplay: 6/10
  The gameplay of Red Steel revolves around shooting and sword fighting. A great of this works most 
 of the time, but Wii lovers will quickly find out how buggy and difficult this game is just by 
 the beginning of the game. The bugs of the game are relentless: the pointer is going everywhere 
 at some points, the enemies are as dumb as a rock, and shooting through enemies making up most 
 of them. Entering and exiting cutscenes fis also very buggy as well. At one point, I entered a 
 triggered sword fight with my rifle in the sword position, and I couldn't swing! Still, when you 
 get past these annoying bugs, you'll find Red Steel to be a very enjoyable game, with some sweet 
 sword action, and gunplay.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  The graphics of Red Steel take on a realistic/comic book look. The cutscenes are either done in 
 a First person view or with comic book art. the art is nice to look at, and the graphics of the 
 game is gamecube quality. However, you can see what your doing very well, even with the dated graphics, 
 and the lighting of the game is amazing. Sound: 10/10
  Man, do I love Japanese drama songs. the amount of it in this amazing, and the showdown theme is 
 amazingly well done. The sword effect are also nice to here, with different clings and clangs. 
 You can also tell the difference between a wooden object hitting metal and a wooden object hitting 
 wood. It just sounds really nice. The guns also sound great. The J-pop for all the levels is a 
 nice touch. I would buy the soundtrack to this game if I was given a chance. Nicely done, Ubi Paris.
 
  
  Value: 7/10
  Well, the game is about 10-12 hours long, and the multiplayer doesn't look like it has much depth 
 to it. Still, the story of the game is pretty good, and I would say that its worth playing if your 
 looking for a unique FPS game for the Wii. That is, until Metroid Prime 3 comes out.
  
  Tilt: 9/10
  This game is amazing. The story of it was very moving and caught my attention. The 
 backstabs made by teammates was classic. The game had a movie feel to it. The music and the amazing 
 sword fights kept me wanting more and more, and the game ends just when you start to have enough. 
 If only Ubisoft had more time with Red Steel, it would have been as great of a launch title as 
 Wii Zelda was. Sadly, that is not the case. Still, I would give Red Steel 2 a purchase if they 
 release one. I'm hooked onto this franchise, Ubi.
  
  Overall: 7.6/10.0
  Good effort, Ubi Paris. However, nesxt time fix all the bugs, and add online MP in Red Steel 2. 
 I want to battle someone online with my blade! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MightyJosh
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 5, 2007 1:30 am PT
Review:  As with every new console come a bunch of games that are rushed out to offer the buyer something 
 to play and to try out the new system. Red Steel is one of them. The game in a whole is a good 
 game not a great game but still good. The graphics and gameplay with the good smooth feel about 
 it make Red Steel and enjoyable game.
  
  The Gameplay is very old as it follows many older games in its storyline. Girls gets kindnapped, 
 guys gets angry, guy kills bad guy, guy gets girl, Bla Bla Bla. Seen it been done 10 years ago. 
 But the game offer some very new style of playing a console FPS, the Wii controller gives you a 
 accurate sharp feel and line of sight when playing a FPS, that can only be rivaled buy a PC.
  
  The Graphics are overall good with nice lines and colours with good explosion effects, but 
 ones in which could have been better.
  
  The game falls in its rushed release to add games to a new console. The game is worth playing but 
 not for long as the story follows the same path through out the game. But I do feel it could have 
 come out later on. High hopes for Red Steel 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scout013
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 3, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel is an enticing shooter that puts you in the shoes of some random character who never 
 talks, in a random setting. The story mode is all around pointless, considering the plot doesn't 
 do much to pull you in. You pretty much run around and shoot people in various locations. There 
 are a lot of noticeable bugs and glitches... especially when it comes to pointing with the remote. 
 Although not a game I would recommend, it can give a couple hours of fun play if you have 4 people 
 playing. The games menus come to me as pointless, seeing as they are in Japanese and must be read 
 through a small area on the bottom of the screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Np_Pro
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 3, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are horrible. The controls are out of control. The levels are bland and so are the 
 enemies. There are so many glitches (ducking behind certain counters causes all the enemies to 
 freeze with arms stretched out sideways) . Don't even get me started on the sword fighting, which 
 is more like two people playing patty cake to the death. There really is nothing special about 
 Red Steel. But I say rent it, or borrow it, or somehow manage to play it, because if you manage 
 to look past the graphics, levels, controls, levels, brain-dead enemies and lame-o sword fights, 
 the game is fun. You shoot people, they die, you shoot more people, they die. The sword fights 
 (which involves you blocking by raising the nunchuk and then swinging the wii-mote, which will 
 make your sword follow one of two preset paths after five second) pop up frequently and break up 
 the fun, but who cares, they're easy. Red Steel is fun enough, so if you got it as a gift or something, 
 play it a bit and then sell it used or give it to a friend or whatever. Just play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Jeremy-
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 3, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  Red Steel was a highly anticipated game before the Wii came out. When I first saw this at E3 I 
 was like WOW That looks awesome!! Now it's out and there have been basically mixed reviews. Some 
 say it sucks and others say it's pretty good. I think it's fun and pretty cool. I bought it at 
 Circuit City for 30 bucks because they had a sale. I had rented it before though so I knew what 
 it was like. I thought it wasn't worth 50 bucks but 30 definitely. I have finally finished it. 
 In the story your girlfriend gets kidnapped by these yakuza dudes and you have to chase them down. 
 Eventually you end up in japan on the streets of tokyo. You'll use different types of guns like 
 Shotguns, uzis, pistols etc etc. Also there are sword fights in almost every level. They break 
 up the gun fights and you fight them alone in a room without any interference. I think the sword 
 fighting is actually ok it's pretty fun. It could be better though. Also the enemies will fall 
 to basic patterns. I like how it asks for you to spare or kill them too. The graphics are like 
 a mixed bag. At times they look really nice and polished. For example the last level looked pretty 
 awesome. Then sometimes they look all jagged and like a gamecube game. Sometimes the aiming get's 
 glitchy but not too much. I've only had one problem where every once in a while it jumps across 
 the screen. I have also experienced stupid random glitches like people getting stuck in walls and 
 grenades sticking out of your gun. The sound in this game is awesome. The sounds of reloading come 
 out of the speaker. Also the sounds of the phone come out of the speaker. It's pretty cool. The 
 story mode took me about 8 hours. Then I had some multiplayer to play. The multiplayer is okay 
 but nothing special. No bots, only 4 lvls, and worse graphics than single player. If you can find 
 a deal on this game then definitely get it. If you can't then rent it first. It's definintely a 
 FPS worth playing if you have Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnybunny35
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 3, 2007 5:48 am PT
Review:  I really don't know what everybody is talking about on this game. It is really good, and though 
 it does have holes, some very big , it is still a fun game for the Wii. The graphics are unimpressive, 
 with characters having silver lining on them, and bad weapons graphics, but Wii sports showed us 
 that you can have a good game without good graphics. Though the storyline is what we have all seen 
 before, it still works okay with this game, and changes a bit throughout the game. The controls 
 are, well, FUN!!!!!!!!!!! point and press the b button to shoot, and slash with your sword by swinging 
 the controller. The only two things that went wrong with this aspect of the game is that sometimes 
 the controller will go offscreen and you will get killed in a rain of bullets. Then theres the 
 grenades . What an almighty f*** up Ubisoft did on those things. They bounce around like rubber 
 and you can't even throw them where you want to, and so you end up blowing the crap out of yourself. 
 Other than that though this game is pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_ano
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 3, 2007 3:46 am PT
Review:  the game is so good when you first play it the sword fighting is cool and all the little things 
 you can do but after the first few it gets terrible the missions have stupid storys to them and 
 it isnt fun to play at all. after each mission you do the same thing, get a new gun and sword skill 
 then accept a new mission its terrible. along with the unbelievably bad graphis there is no blood 
 when u kill anyone no slash marks of blood when u slash somone with the sword, there is a while 
 line around all the characters in the game although they move nicely they just dont look good. 
 this is a very rushed poorly made game that gets old real fast i would not recommend anyone to 
 buy this game no matter how much you like fps games or ps1 graphis this game is a huge let down 
 the only thing i thaught was good was the soundtrack and some of the voices were ok 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormydog1
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 2, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  I decided to rent Red Steel last week, and I am throughly unimpressed with Red Steel for the wii. 
 With games like half life 2 and Halo, this game just does not come to par with the genre.
  
  First, the controls. I enjoyed using the wiimote for zelda and wiisports, but I found it a 
 chore with this game. What I was really excited about was the sword fighting , but even that dissapointed 
 me. The sword (s) do not follow your swings exactly, they seem to be pre-rendered animations. The 
 guns in Red Steel are very akward to use. I first thought it was because I was used to using the 
 mouse and keyboard, but after playing for a few hours it still felt akward. The zooming functions 
 and limited control customization made it very difficult to target enemies. The guns in this game 
 are also very mediocre, with blaa weapons like the shotgun, pistol, and uzi. Nothing a fps has 
 not seen a hundred times before.
  
  Alright, time for the graphics. Although not too bad, some textures are very grainy. This game 
 was obviously made for a mature audience, but still they seemed to try to dull it down it a bit. 
 There is almost no blood, and sword strikes are very un-satisfactory as it causes no apparent damage 
 to your foe. If they wanted this game to appeal to mature audiences, it would be better to go all 
 the way. The map layouts are fairly interesting, such as a massage parlor and car garages. But 
 still, half life 2 still is light years ahead in terms of level layouts.
  
  Now for the sound. I have to say this is one of the strongpoints, with strong techno-rock in the 
 shootouts and and other types of music that fit the atmosphere. The voice acting is good. But some 
 of the things the NPC's say are inappropriate. These include them yelling Murderer! Killer! at 
 you throughout the game, and it almost made me feel guilty for playing this game! The story, and 
 the way it was told, did not seem to make much sense. Why did they choose to do comic- book like 
 cutcenes? Was this based on a comic series? Their is also no character development for the person 
 you are playing, so it makes you care less about his situation. The whole maiden-in-distress was 
 very unoriginal. Obviously, the game gears toward a male audience, even though the wii is supposed 
 to be for everyone.
  
  In conclusion, if you want to rent I say go for it, but definetly does not belong on the game shelf. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 66lewis99
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  This is a great game, that may be flawed, but what do you expect for a launch title? The Xbox 360 
 fans had to wait weeks to see a game as good as this one.
  It shows just what the Wii can do; graphically its great and its very fun, using the wiimote as 
 a gun.
  The controls are easy to learn; soon you become fluent in the aiming skills and so on. It makes 
 a great difference from run-of-the-mill controllers that the Xbox and Ps3 use.
  Some voice acting does let it down and also the fact there is little or no blood, but these wont 
 stop you from enjoying this thrill packed action blockbuster. !! RECOMMENDED!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiho24
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 30, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  I was meaning to get around to reviewing this game, I've had it since launch day and have beaten 
 it over a month and a half ago. But I've been revisiting it recently to pick over the details in 
 the game. The second run through I was more impressed with the graphics, I started to study the 
 detail placed in the levels and they did a great job with it, the lighting in the game is good 
 and the destructible environments are really great too.
  
  The shooting aspect and the control is great, it will take about an hour to get used to and many 
 more to master it. But that is only if you haven't played a Wii shooter before. By now a few more 
 FPS's are out on the Wii market so you may have already been accustomed. And as I said the shooting 
 is good, later in the game you get to do the stop motion effect. Where you can place your shots 
 while the rest of the environment is frozen. It adds a nice touch and a bit of strategy when in 
 a heated battle that you are easily outnumbered, which is all the time. The real gripe about the 
 game though is the sword fighting. It is clunky and not fun at all to play. Later in the game, 
 don't even think about defeating the opponent by draining their health. You basically just have 
 to spam special attacks to break their weapon. It can get frustrating and fatigued after jolting 
 you arms up and down for a hammer attack
  
  The story is a mishmash of badly placed images in the cut scenes. Although they are relatively 
 brief which is good to get you moving on with the fighting. I beat the game at 80% in 8 hours. 
 But overall I find the game extremely underrated. For the most part the game is great when using 
 the shooting aspect. It really brings a lot of control to the environment and should not be passed 
 up as a low grade game. Despite some of its problems the core game play mechanics which you spend 
 the majority of the time using, is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: purple-monkey2
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 29, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  the multi palya sux i gotta say BUT the single player is long and very fun fun fun but once you 
 beat one player all the appeal for the games shrivles up in a tiny ball and dies..... it just kinda 
 sits there and you are like are you napping? and when all the appeal donsnt reply you go crying 
 to the nearest place that will buy it off you. man looking back on that first part about sucking 
 and dieing i kinda feel bad for the little guy...... it is a good game but i advise that u just 
 rent it. woot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotFox
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 29, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  By all rights, Red Steel should have been a game right up my alley. Heres a game that lets you 
 wield the Wii remote as a sword, how cool is that? Granted, the rest of the game looked like your 
 standard FPS, but you get to use a sword!! If I had known how standard this game actually was, 
 I wouldnt have even bothered. After wandering around cookie cut levels looking for cookie cut 
 thugs to shoot, sitting through ridiculously dramatic storyboard segments, and a soundtrack that 
 leaves much to be desired, I started to dread future Wii FPS games.
  
  Its not that the controls are hard to master. Realistically, aiming the remote at the screen is 
 a lot easier than controlling a crosshair with analog sticks. You can even zoom in your sights 
 by moving the remote closer to the screen, which is a pretty nifty idea. You can only carry two 
 weapons at a time, so swapping them with the directional buttons is a breeze. The Nunchuks analog 
 stick controls your movement which sweeping the remote will cause you to look left or right. Easy 
 enough. Rocking the Nunchuk up and down can do everything from reloading your weapon, opening doors, 
 picking up new weapons or flipping over tables to give you a spot of cover. Once you get your head 
 wrapped around the new controller, youll probably realize that its a lot more fun playing this 
 way. (I, for one, couldnt play sitting down, so I had a bad habit of actually ducking or dodging.) 
 For the innovation of the controller, Red Steel gets a solid mark in the plus column.
  
  However, the rest of the game seems very stagnant. A lot of this is because theres only so many 
 ways you can remake an FPS. In the end, these types of games boil down to wandering around looking 
 for people to shoot while trying not to get shot too much in return. Like the majority of FPS, 
 Red Steel has you creeping through warehouses, tunnels, warehouses, an exclusive club, warehouses, 
 more tunnels, and a couple warehouses. In the majority of these environments, its very easy to 
 get turned around and lost as you wander down tunnels that look pretty much the same. For the most 
 part, youre encountering thugs that look like they crawled out of a clone generator, and the AI 
 in the game is very weak. Enemies pick a suitable place of cover and shoot at you from it, allowing 
 you to pick them off from your own hidey-hole, lob a grenade in their general direction or yes, 
 even walk right past them while they shoot in the same direction. (Sometimes they may turn to follow 
 you, but more often than not . . .)
  
  Graphically, the game bears the same quality that you would find on a late 90s arcade game, which 
 is to say blurry and dingy looking. Maybe the creators of Red Steel were going for a noir feeling, 
 made more clear by their Max Payne style story segments. Its supposed to create the effect of 
 looking at graphic novel pages, but the truth behind the matter is that the animation style  with 
 characters zooming off the panel and being placed in other panels  is more akin to Sly Cooper 
 than the gritty Max Payne. Add to that the fact that Red Steel is nowhere CLOSE to a noir storyline, 
 and the whole ensemble becomes all the more weak. Your character  Scott  is dating this Japanese 
 girl whos father is a successful business. Oh no! The father has become the target of Yakuza thugs, 
 and Scott gets caught in the middle. Now Scott must blast his way through the Yakuza ranks and 
 get his girlfriend back. The chase is on from the warehouses of LA to the warehouses of Tokyo.
 
  
  Maybe Im just a hardcase that needs a little blood for breakfast. Granted, Red Steel only carries 
 a T rating, so that may explain its PG movie feel. No blood on the sword, no blood when you pop 
 someone with a head shot, and enemies disappear shortly after hitting the floor. (Corpses being 
 so upsetting and all) The swordplay element of the game leaves much to be desired. True, you can 
 use your Tanto blade in close quarters if you can a) sneak up to a cookie-cut enemy and b) get 
 the controller to recognize you are trying to slash with your sword and not reload your weapon. 
 After all, itd be too much to ask for one of the directional pad buttons to bind to your sword. 
 I guess the creators were bound to the logic that most people dont want to bring a sword to a 
 gun fight. On the other hand, once an enemy brings THEIR sword into a gun fight, you automatically 
 change weapons. Thankfully, this bozos friends arent standing around taking cheap shots at you 
 while you duel for honor, but these sword fights are rather clumsy. You and your opponent can only 
 circle around a small area. Knock him out of this area, and you and the bad guy automatically shift 
 back into position, even if you were in the middle of slicing him up good. I hope future sword 
 fight games (and theres surely going to be another one of these, if for no other reason than to 
 gloss over the mistakes of this game.) Theres not a whole lot of good to be doled out with this 
 game, so hopefully the Wii can come out with some better titles before the effect of Red Steel 
 sours its market for FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daisetsu-Horigo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 27, 2007 11:07 pm PT
Review:  All-right, I'm not going to say this game is GREAT but I'm not going to say it's terrible or meidocore.
 
  
  Red Steel to me is an overall pretty solid game. It pretty much ABUSES the use to the Wiimote, 
 and its just right for those who like First person shooters.
  
  Gameplay: I had fun with this game. Regardless of what GS says, this game is pretty good. The camera 
 is controled by your motions (not the C stick like most Wii games, which I find is pretty cool) . 
 The only bad with this is if your motion bar is like mine, at times your Wiimote will screw up 
 and you'll look up and go in a loopdy-loop. At first its pretty hard to get use to, but once you 
 get the feel down, you're set! It took me 20 minutes to get it down. But on that same token, it 
 took my friend 2 HOURS TO GET USE TO IT. So it depends on how adaptable you are.
  The gun (s) you use are COMPLETELY free-ranged, is a good word to describe it. Basicly what ever 
 you do with the Wiimote, its going to show up on screen (which is how it should be on a game like 
 this) . The only thing I found dissapointing was the katana (sword you use) isn't free-ranged... meaning 
 you're restriced to what they want you to do.... which is bull crap (I want to go retarded with 
 it and THEY WONT LET ME DAMNIT!)
  I find the story to be pretty straight forward. You're on a date with the girl you once had to 
 be a body-guard for, she's kidnapped, and you have to save her. I haven't beaten yet, but I got 
 pretty far, and thats all I found it to be. If you're a fan of Action/Adventure movies, I think 
 you'll like this game.
  
  Graphic: Pretty good! Not fantastic, but not make-your-eyes-bleed bad. It just right for what the 
 Wii can do right now. It's all pretty good, you just see cross-hairs (well I did) here and there.
 
  
  Sound: Pretty good as well. Every fight scene, you get a hardrock jam to kill to. When ever you're 
 just walking around, all you hear is your surroundings. All the shots and sword CLANK s are pretty 
 well used. The only time I hear the sounds mess up is if you're shooting like a mad-man and when 
 you go to reload your gun, you don't hear it. DON'T GET CONFUSED THOUGH, I heard this when I was 
 just standing there, but you start to not hear things to well after you get shot because its supposed 
 to repesent what happens when you well... get shot!
  
  Value: $50 seems to be a little much for this game. I mean its a $40 game TOPS. But I don't mind 
 paying the $10 extra dollars.
  
  Ubisoft was in a huge hurry when they released this game. But to do as good a job they did, you 
 have to give em' props! I mean its really a good game! You just have to try it. It didn't really 
 live up to what people said about it, but since when has anything?
  
  Overall: Great Launch Title. I enjoyed this game, and I hope you do too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: St_Jimmy123
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 27, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game two days ago and i feel it kicks ass! It is hard but very easy when you get 
 used to it. This game is awesome. And the graphics and sound effects are very realistic. I frikkin' 
 love this game. The story line is pretty cool! Pretty original. I love the large variety of guns 
 you can use like the Uzi and M4 Shotgun. To me the best is the AE Rifle so you can get accurate 
 shots so i thought it was cool that was in it. Just shooting the crap outta people and them responding 
 makes the gun fights more fun to do. If my oppinion counts, I recommend this game to anyone who 
 like first person shoot-em-ups. If you like guns, violence, and seeing throught characters' point 
 of view, You should get this game. And ou dont have to play alone, Theres a cool multiplayer mod 
 in which the shoot the other people to death! Which is kickass.
  
  So you gotta get this game if you like violence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoldOnHold
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 25, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  I had some high expectations for this game. Ever since the first footage of this game was shown, 
 I was itching to to twirl the Wii remote around like a light gun and pop shots all around. Not 
 to mention I longed to slice and dice my foes with the Wiimote, er, I mean katanas. Unfortunately 
 not all of my expectations were met. But that's not to say it's not a fun game. Sure there are 
 frustrating moments, but to give it a 5.5 score? That's ridiculous.
  
  Gameplay - Unfortunately, most of Red Steel's faults lie in it's gameplay. Consider it a sandwich 
 of fun and excitement with a slice of frustration thrown in. Most people hat on the game's control 
 scheme, saying it takes a while to get into. I for one got used to it within minutes. I was poppin' 
 headshots as if I did this my whole life. However, as refreshing as the control scheme is, the 
 excitement starts to wear thin after a few hours. That's when the genericness kicks in. It's the 
 same formula: go from point A to point B shooting groups of fools as you go along. Swordfighting 
 helps to break it down a bit. It's visceral and fun, but halfbaked. It would've been nice to move, 
 and to have your arm mapped to the katana instead of triggering animations. Expect numerous glitches 
 abound, such as the dreadful jittering aim reticle. However, if you can live with all this, such 
 as I have, you can expect some major fun. It's really not as bad as everyone say it is.
  
  Graphics - Thankfully, this game looks better than it plays. The character models and guns look 
 great, as do the environments. Theres plenty of style, and the high production values are apparent. 
 However, closer inspection of the environment reveals a low amount of textures. Some more polish 
 wouldve been nice, but its not really that noticeable. The cutscenes are presented through animated 
 comic book-like sequences. The result is an incredibly artistic tour-de-force that adds to the 
 slick stylistic presentation.
  
  Sound - Red Steel offers some great music. Whatever the case, it sets the mood perfectly and really 
 provides some much needed atmosphere. At times it may be cheesy, but it definitely makes it feel 
 like some foreign action flick. The voice acting on the other hand, ranges from good to bad. 
 Some of the key characters sound fine, but most of the enemies sound terrible. Their accents are 
 extremely bad and dont even sound Japanese to begin with. Plus, the grunts and phrases they shout 
 during firefights are generic and repeat too often. They will make you cringe every now and then 
 but nothing too extreme.
  
  Value - As far as FPSs go, Red Steel has some meat to it. Its generally longer than most games 
 in the genre, and chapters can be replayed for higher ranks. Nice touch. Multiplayer is also there, 
 and its pretty fun, but you make notice the lack of music. Unfortunately, theres no online, so 
 dont expect to be playing the game for much long after playing through the single player campaign 
 once or twice.
  
  Rent or Buy? - If you can look past the points Ive stated above, by all means, go and buy this 
 game. Youll like it. THANKS FOR READING MY REVIEW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tellyn
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 25, 2007 5:13 am PT
Review:  Red Steel is a brilliant FPS game in which you swordfight and gun down the Yakuza mafia in an attempt 
 to rescue your girlfriend and her father. It doesn't have a unique storyline, but the gameplay 
 makes up for it. Whilst the controls will feel like rubbish the first time you play, they get better 
 as you progress, and the use of the Nunchuk and Wiimote's motion sensors are really good. The aiming 
 system... not so great.
  
  The graphics might look like an original Xbox game, but the Wii goes more for a controls wow factor 
 than graphics, so I don't really care. I haven't noticed the sounds and music as I play, mostly 
 because it involves me getting called a bastard repeatedly and told that I'm going to die when 
 the room is empty. There are major glitches like that throughout the game, which is quite a letdown 
 considering it's been in development for almost two years.
  
  The multiplayer is only good if you play people who are used to the game, otherwise you get cheap 
 kills whilst they are pointing at the sky and wondering what the hell to do, but the phone mode 
 is a good idea.
  
  Overall, it's an underappreaciated game even with its glitches, but enjoyable either way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dumassed2k
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 23, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  People have not given red stell credit, although the graphics are not completely up to next gen 
 standard, it is a very fun game, and has certainly done what it was set out to do.
  
  That was to create a game in which is different, using the wii technology, it is a very original 
 design and has some fun elements to it. And has some very well thought out levels such as the mad 
 level in the gaming district, that is a really intense level and reminds me of the movie saw. Although 
 the graphics aint great, and the japanese-american voices are quite irrating, it is a very fun 
 game and a must have for all wii owners at the moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micubano
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 22, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  I got this title off of EBay cheap, so I cant complain too much. First, since I got a 360 before 
 this, the graphics are rough. Game play is a little better. When I upgraded to HDTV a few years 
 ago, my light guns on my Xbox stopped working. It was nice to shoot at the screen again. I hope 
 someone is working on a gun shaped wiimote.
  
  Moving around and strafing were easy enough to figure out. It was a little tough to aim without 
 zooming in. I tried adjusting the sensitivity both higher and lower, but both options made it worse. 
 Jumping and ducking are done with buttons while reloading your gun is done with flicking the wiimote 
 up. This should have been reversed to give the movement a more natural feel. Besides shooting your 
 way through everything, you do have to master the sword, which takes about 5 minutes. If you have 
 good timing, this is not a problem. The Boss Levels in Smooth Moves that have sword play are about 
 the same as this.
  
  I was liking the story, but I was getting bored just running and killing everyone that came at 
 me. A few innocent bystanders would make it more interesting. I'm not that far into it, but I might 
 put this title aside for a really rainy day.
  
  So far, I was killed once because I wasnt paying attention while going around a corner. Basically, 
 if you move slow and duck, you wont have any problems beating Red Steel. Rent it, if youre bored. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyfatman24
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 21, 2007 2:32 am PT
Review:  Gamespot said this game will have you shaking your head at the end. This is true. This game wasn't 
 a fantastic game, in fact it was pretty bad. One of its major problems is that it is too buggy. 
 So many levels would send your cursor flickering off in all directions. Also, Red Steel is one 
 of the only wii games that will make the wii create these wierd humming, dinging, and buzzing noises. 
 It is very distracting. I wont talk about how bad the graphics were.
  
  The sound was terrible. The voice acting was really funny. The asian accent on each character just 
 makes the game so much more enjoyable.
  
  all in all, it was dissapointing and could have been so much better then it was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcanine_88
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 19, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel (RS) was a nice launch title for the Wii. I'm sure many of us thought First-Person Shooter 
 when we found out what the Wiimote could do. It was one of the first things I thought, so I think 
 Nintendo said we got to get a shooter out there. , and they did and Red Steel was the main shooter. 
 RS was hyped far too much and I think it was also rushed to get out there by launch.
  
  Gameplay:
  Shooting~ This isn't a pick up and play type of game. At first you'll likely thing 
 What the heck is wrong with this thing? . Unlike games like Rayman, Wii Sports, WarioWare, etc 
 the controls aren't as fine tuned. You'll try to shoot straight and it just don't feel right. Me, 
 I had to turn the sensitivity down to low (and I think it works best this way) . The first few hours 
 you'll likely get used to shooting at the wall. But once you do get the controls down it does feel 
 quite well (But still off) . You'll get used to it and might just like that way for shooters (to 
 me it feels really good, but it isn't perfect or well worked out as analog sticks) . What's bad 
 is, the controls weren't a pick up and play type of thing. I couldn't just pick it up and wave 
 it around like a normal gun and shoot like a pro. I had to get used to the off controls for RS.
 
  Sword Fighting~ Some like the sword fighting in RS, I dislike it. Even more so when you get to 
 the last few levels and they block or dodge a ton and there was this one level close to the end 
 where they had a ton of sword fights (pissed me off) . They feel off and aren't always right on, 
 some of the combos don't come out because it didn't read the Wiimote right (even if I did it right 
 the game just didn't read it) . Most of the time I just broke their sword (because it wouldn't read 
 my attacks right) . And one of the things I found out is, swinging the Wiimote over and over for 
 like 5 minutes straight isn't fun at all. If I couldn't break their sword then I'd have to swing 
 and sometimes them fights get long. And that's no fun at all.
  Like the shooting part, the sword fighting part feels off when it comes to the controls. They might 
 be nice but they aren't perfect (to me they aren't even close) .
  
  Graphics:
  I really don't have a clue on graphics. They are borderline good/bad for me. It's sort of like 
 Is that good or bad graphics? type of stuff. Some parts are nice, and others are bad. But it does 
 have nice effects when stuff blows up. So I guess that counts for something.
  
  Sound:
  It isn't the best out there. Some of the tracks are nice, and the sound effects are also done well. 
 But it could have been a lot better.
  
  Story:
  The story for RS isn't that good. And most of the time you'll forget all about why you're running 
 around here and there (to get the girlfriend back) . It strays off far too much for it's own good. 
 You'll be going here to do this job, going there to do another one and so on. The story is about 
 getting your girlfriend back and you forget about that quite a bit. So the story in RS just isn't 
 that strong.
  
  Multiplayer:
  If you got a few friends over and if they have RS at home then it might be fun for a round or two. 
 But the controls in multiplayer feel more off the single player. Even on low setting it still feels 
 more off then normal. And there is little or no music in multiplayer (I didn't hear any, the TV 
 volume might have been too low. But still, if I could hear single player stuff looks like I could 
 hear some music in multiplayer) . And that doesn't help the mood at all in the game. Pop in a movie, 
 turn the subtitles on and click mute. It sort of feels like that. There are other better multiplayer 
 games out there (this one doesn't rank all that high on my list, and some of the other multiplayer 
 games for the Wii is more fun) .
  
  Overall:
  Overall the game isn't bad , it just isn't as good as it was made out to be before launch. To me 
 it was just rushed far too much (they cut things here and there, they skimmed on this and that) , 
 and it could have been better. If it weren't for the gameplay then the game wouldn't be ranked 
 very high in anyone's book. It's what saves it from being an under average shooter.
  I liked the game (even if it had it's downsides) , it was worth it for me. But if you can look past 
 the story, the multiplayer, and the controls then I'd say it's worth playing. If you like shooters 
 or not I'd say it's at least worth a rental (or if you think you'd like it then I'd say buy it 
 if you can find it at a lower price, because not all might think it's worth the $50 price tag) .
 
  For me it was good enough to have some high hopes for Red Steel 2. Maybe they'll clean up a few 
 things and give us the shooter we were looking for at the launch of the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quiksilver022
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 19, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel combines swords and guns in a repetitive, but extremely fun way. The controls are pretty 
 solid for the most part, despite a few minor glitches and camera angles, and the game's got style.. 
 just not the graphical power to back it up. The dialogue is clunky and awkward, the storyline subpar, 
 and slightly repetitive music, but despite these flaws, you'll find yourself having fun, which 
 is most important. Though it's no Zelda, it definitely opens many doors to future first-person-shooters 
 with its unique control scheme. Hopefully they fix things up when 'Red Steel 2' rolls around. Rent 
 it first, then decide for yourself. I wouldn't necessarily recommend paying the $50 or $60 for 
 it, so maybe search around for a sale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sketchbaz
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 19, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  Let me start off, Red Steel is grossly under-rated.
  
  Sure it's no huge title, it won't outplay Half Life, it won't outsell Halo. But it's barebones 
 fun.
  
  The storyline is rather simple, your fiancee gets kidnapped aver a yakuza clan revolts, and you 
 have to get her back.
  
  The gameplay is where the game shines, the wii controls, while fiddly at first end up being far 
 better than a traditional game controller, although slightly worse than a mouse and keyboard.
 
  
  The sword fights, although a slight disappointment do provide a fun experience.
  
  The graphics are a mixed bag, I play the wii in my room, so it is on a 17 SDTV. On this the graphics 
 range from lacklustre to absolutely stunning. There is from time to time some faltering in the 
 graphics, but don't let the still pictures fool you, this game is a beauty. I had no problems going 
 from the likes of R6 Vegas to play this.
  
  I DO suggest a rental before buying though, it doesn't seem to be to everyone's tastes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirai_Trunks
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 18, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Good: Once you get used to it, the game can be extremely fun; the sword fighting is the best part 
 of the game; there is variety in what guns you can use; existent storyline; the feature that allows 
 you to spare or kill an enemy after a swordfight is very cool; when you actually hit an enemy in 
 the first couple of minutes in the game, you will feel very happy; absolutly great music and sound 
 effects; we can hope that ubi will improve everything on Red Steel 2 to make it a really awesome 
 game.
  
  Bad: Almost an Outlandish learning curve; graphics are downright horrible; why did they name it 
 red steel if there is no blood in the game?; AI is at sometimes bad and sometimes good.
  
  Red Steel is a two way package. If you like graphics, definatly dont go for this one. Go for Zelda. 
 But if you like the satisfaction of shooting someone, get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kryu88
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 18, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel was one of the Wii's most anticipated launch titles. It was going to show how Nintendo 
 was trying to go away from the 'kiddie' angle for a while and release some more mature games. However, 
 they failed to tell Ubisoft to spend some more time on their game development on this title. It 
 is filled to the brim with faulty A. I, glitches, bugs, and a dull story. Nintendo would've done 
 good to cancel the release of this game.
  
  The story, how dull it is, has you playing as Scott the fiance to the daughter of a rich Japanese 
 businessman who also secretly runs a Yakuza gang. And when you go with your future wife, Miyu, 
 to see her father at a hotel you suddenly get attacked by mysterious armed thugs who try to kill 
 her father. Sounds interesting?? Think again, it turns out to be another damsel in distress story 
 with no development of characters and shallow voice acting. As it has already been said, Miyu gets 
 captured by the thugs and Scott must hurry to her rescue. The opening level has you trying to locate 
 and save Miyu's father (Mr. Sato) and get him safely out of the hotel. When you gain control of 
 Scott, aka You bastard!!/You murderer!! as the thugs call him, you have a pistol and some thugs 
 to shoot (that about sums up about 90% of the gameplay) . I found that when you try to aim the Wiimote 
 about 50% of the time, Scott doesn't aim that way. Which comes to one of this games faults, the 
 controls. With the Wii the controls and gameplay are everything, and that is why this game falls 
 flat on its face. The aiming is very chittery and spastic, turning around corners and aiming turns 
 into a chore as the gun swings wildly in Scott's hand. When you aim at somebody close range only 
 a few bullets actually hit, and I'm talking CLOSE range as in 2-3 feet, but you hit a little bit 
 more accurately from long range as in 30-40 feet. The same goes for the thugs in the game too, 
 they don't hit you very well from a few feet away, but you give them a full warehouse distance 
 and they hit you easy, odd. This is also one part of the gameplay where some glitches showed their 
 ugly faces. At one point a thugs arm went right through a door and shot me and a thug also shot 
 me clear through a wall, no wall hacking thugs!! One of the features of aiming by using the Wiimote 
 is if you hold down the A button and pull forward or back on it you aim closer or pull back. This 
 is a nice feature for those times when you need to clear out a room of thugs and is a dim light 
 in the otherwise dark room of Red Steel's gameplay. Also the levels are interactive so if you feel 
 frustrated, unleash a clip of Uzi bullets on the closest fish tank or washing machine, that is 
 kind of fun.
  
  One of the aspects of this game that grabbed people's interests at E3 was the sword duels that 
 take place in the game. You hold your Wiimote like a sword and swing it to unleash slashes of fury 
 upon your adversary. You also have a second sword that you use to block with via using the Nunchuk 
 attachment. This system works pretty well and can lead to some intense and challenging sword fights. 
 However, it is how the sword fights appear in the game that brings this aspect down a notch. The 
 sword fights are very randomly placed and occur with some characters whom you wouldn't think could 
 stand up to someone with samurai skills. An example of this is a gangster with a baseball bat vs. 
 a dual sword wielding samurai? Doesn't make much sense to me, and them being randomly placed throughout 
 the course of the game just seems like a way to break up the monotony of running and gunning that 
 is the rest of the game. There were also glitches that showed up in this part of the gameplay as 
 well. At some points my opponent would simply not take damage when I slashed him or he would magically 
 avoid my attacks when he got hit.
  
  Graphics wise it isn't a terrible looking game, the detail on the environments and level interactivity 
 is very well done. Now of course it isn't Xbox 360 or PS3 standards but it is still a decent looking 
 game. There were some graphical glitches as well, the arm going through a door, the shot through 
 a wall, and a guys arm appearing out of his chest. The cutscenes between chapters play to you as, 
 what appear to be, cardboard cutouts moving across the scree, kind of like in a comic book. These 
 scenes didn't draw me deeper into the story or grab my interest in the characters in the least 
 bit.
  
  All in all, this could've been a good game. It just didn't seem like Ubisoft took a lot of time 
 to polish it towards the end. Perhaps Red Steel 2 will be better? If it is in the works that is. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pickleking23
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  When I first saw this game was in a magazine it look amazing I was so exited for this the way you 
 point the gun I thought it would be more easy to use on this than a PC but na, it works good just 
 not great, it freaks out alot when yo play and get's alittle hard to aim sometimes, the way you 
 zoom in is great go closer to the screen to zoom and move back to zoom out was a awsome idea, but 
 not cool enough to save the game, the graphics are okay nothing great i thought they were really 
 well done, the physics in the game were horrible and the AI...... hm let's just say my little cuz 
 is smarter and she is 2, the Ai is really not well done at all you can stand next to them and they 
 would't see you, and they can be shooting at you and you duck.... they lose track of you that's 
 how dumb they are, but if you like fps and wanna try something new i recommend this game it is 
 fun just not the greatest game out there, you will have fun with this the sword fighting is pretty 
 cool but after awhile it's just the same thing over and over again. the multiplayer is ok the graphics 
 are not as good in single as they are in multiplayer, but if you got 3 friends to play with it 
 can be fun, i have alot of fun with the multi, just it sucks cause only 4 levels to choose from 
 and only 3 game modes and you can't play the other one unless you got 4 players in, the story hm 
 is kinda original your girl gets kidnapped and there is this sword you have to keep save cause 
 they will try to get it, it's an ok story line, well that wraps up my review of red steel, and 
 sorry to say but ubisoft wants to make another let's hope the Ai, Story, and gameplay get better 
 and they get some online matchmaking that would be cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerForca
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 17, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- The controls are hard to get used to, but once you do, you will be popping shells in 
 between your enemies' eyes with ease. The biggest problem probably comes with the large bounding 
 box, which makes you point the remote at the edge of the screen before you turn, which makes you 
 too slow. If it was set up like a PC shooter, it could probably be a lot better. However, the aiming 
 IS great, and its fun bringing friends over that haven't played it before and racking up head shots 
 (it gets interesting when they catch on though) . There is a nasty aiming bug that makes the aiming 
 reticule jump up and down quickly on the screen, and you'll have to turn off the game to get it 
 back to normal. Luckily that doesn't happen often. The nastiest bug comes when you get in a ton 
 of fighting (usually in the last few levels) and the game completely freezes. You have to completely 
 unplug your TV to get it back to normal. It really pissed me off because I was at the end of the 
 game and had to start over. In some levels, you can get stuck in an object on the map (usually 
 a building or large obstacle) , but this is the rarest of the glitches. The enemy AI is genius in 
 this game and will make their own cover, flank you, and hide in areas that you won't expect. The 
 sword fighting is dull, it doesn't seem like you ever hit your enemy, and it's terribly repetitive. 
 It's very easy; your enemies are about as aggressive as dead dogs and if you just swing repeatedly 
 you can kill most of them. The rest you can kill simply by quickly dodging their attacks and swinging 
 as soon as you dodge. You can pull out your sword during firefights for a moment if you're close 
 enough, and it works, but its just not very effective against a large group of enemies. Learning 
 new sword attacks is all but pointless, because its nearly IMPOSSIBLE to pull out a 6 move combo 
 against a later enemy. All you have to do is dodge and swing. The first combo you learn is the 
 only one worth mentioning. Overall, I'd say the shooting is great, but horribly repetitive, and 
 the sword fighting is mediocre, and also very repetitive.
  
  Graphics- The graphics are one of the best for a Wii launch title. Many of the environments are 
 bright and nice-looking. The textures in some places are marvelous; for example, you can see every 
 scratch on an elevator if you look close to it. Some walls look horrible, while most look pretty 
 good (along with trees and other large objects) . Some floors and areas look bright and gorgeous. 
 The players models are thoroughly unimpressive. They are bright, but look cut-out and very... I 
 don't know.... compressed? The game can fit a good amount of action on screen without too much 
 trouble (other than that glitch) . In-game stuff like cars, trucks, and planes are usually bright 
 like character models but just horrible looking. Overall, I'd say it's good with the graphics, 
 but I'll give it plenty of credit since it's one of the best looking launch titles.
  
  Story- It's a gang story. Wow..... not much to say. It definitley doesn't need to be the reason 
 you buy the game. There are its good moments, but overall, the story is unimpressive, plain and 
 simple.
  
  Difficulty- Once you get used to it (which shouldn't be too hard) you'll have very little trouble, 
 especially when you learn how to do focus. Unless you don't practice at all, the shooting parts 
 will be a cake-walk. The swordfighting is terribly simple to begin with, but if you don't pick 
 it up, you'll get you ass kicked a few times. Sadley, once you get used to it, it will cause you 
 no problems at all and you'll beat anybody you face with ease.
  
  Sound/Music- The sound effects are all right. I've heard better, but I don't really care about 
 them. The voice animation is... well... voice animation (except the people have Japanese accents) . 
 The music is HORRID. I mean, do you really want Japanese girls saying you're very cool over and 
 over and over and over again? Didn't think so. Damn, I had to turn off the volume sometimes because 
 the music sucked so bad. Some music themes were all right, but they were far more repetitive than 
 the gameplay (and THAT'S SAYING SOMETHING) . I''m being leniant when I give it a 5.
  
  Multiplayer- The multiplayer is fun, especially when you have 3 friends over. It plays kinda like 
 GoldenEye, but only has 4 areas and not many options. It will hold you off until another good multiplayer 
 Wii FPS comes out. I personally find it fun sniping friends that have never played before. Anyway, 
 the other bad thing about this is there is no multiplayer swordfighting. Wtf were they thinking??? 
 That really hurt it. And so does no online play.
  
  Replay Value- After beating it once, you'll never play through it again, trust me. The multiplayer 
 is the only thing I do over, and it's the only thing worth playing over.
  
  Overall- A disappointment. That about sums it up. Like I said earlier, it is a DECENT game, and 
 you probably should buy it (unless you only play single player, then you should get CoD3) . The 
 story was terrible, the shooting was great, the swordfighting was new, both were terribly repetitive, 
 as was the terrible music. Get it for a multiplayer FPS, nothing else. However, if Red Steel 2 
 is true (and it seems like it is because of the ending of this game) , I'm getting it for sure. 
 Peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 17, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Red Steel is the first game in the first person shooter genre to release on Wii, and 
 it also is probably one of the worst. The game starts you off in a brief tutorial, that also explains 
 the story... however fake sounding the story may seem. The game then begins with a shooting level, 
 and continues that way. In the midst of all the shooting you'll do in this game, you will be required 
 to take down some enemies with a slash of your sword and katana. This can get very interesting 
 and is a nice break from all the shooting at first, but ultimately feels tacked on to the levels 
 and doesn't have enough depth to the sword fighting scheme to make it enjoyable.
  Now, let me describe the controls. With the Wii remote you will aim with the pointer, obviously, 
 to shoot. and pull the B trigger to fire. For the most part, it works pretty well and lets you 
 get a lot more accuracy when shooting. The only complaint would be the horrible turning times, 
 if you are used to dual analog where you get a slightly better turning reaction then this may take 
 time to get used to. The rest of the control scheme feels fairly intuitive though and shouldn't 
 take long to catch onto.
  As for the sword controls, well, it isn't quite what you would expect. Rather than the game directly 
 sensing every motion you make with the Wii remote (which is indeed possible) , it instead just detects 
 that one motion that tells when to slash the character's sword. You never actually feel that you 
 are in a real sword fight in this game, because of this sole factor. In fact, the katana that is 
 nunchuk controlled even feels kind of pointless, seeing as you could probably go an entire sword 
 fight without actually parrying. Ultimately, the sword sequences are pretty tacked on and kind 
 of repetitive.
  As for the quality of the gameplay itself, a lot of the game is just broken or too predictable. 
 The A. I. is just plain incompetent in this game, and everything feels a bit too linear. Not only 
 that, but some of the sequences in the game get very typical and too... well... boring. Nothing 
 you experience here really will keep you on the edge of the seat at all, something that is disappointing 
 considering all of the expectations this game intitially had.
  Now, while there are plenty of bad aspects here, there are a few here as well. The reputation points 
 system is pretty fun to keep track of, no matter how pointless. This system gives you points when 
 you spare someone's life when given the option, such as at the end of a sword fight. Another cool 
 feature, no matter how small, is the fact that you can turn your gun if you choose (in other words, 
 you could turn it to the side for a more dramatic effect if you wanted to, something you obviously 
 can only do in a Wii game) . Plus, while the multiplayer is pretty bland, it does get creative with 
 some modes, and the concept is at least there. If it were online enabled though, it definitely 
 would seem a whole lot better.
  
  Graphics: When Red Steel was first revealed, we were in awe by its visuals. Well, it took a turn 
 for the worse somewhere in development. While it does at least look better than most other launch 
 games, it has its share of problems. For one thing, the character models have this weird cut out 
 look to them, and the cutscenes aren't animated and are instead done in a comic book fashion.... 
 something that is only a problem depending on how you look at it. The environments themselves are 
 reasonably detailed, however the destructable environments that Ubisoft boasted about really is 
 nothing special. At this point, destructable environments are almost a given in first person shooters, 
 plus their really aren't as many destructable items in this game as you might think anyway. Overall 
 though, Red Steel is definitely one of the better looking Wii games, and some of the gun models 
 look pretty nice when playing the game.
  
  Sound: There isn't too much audio packed in the game that sticks out at you. It really is sort 
 of mediocre in terms of sounds, it has bland music and even some of the effects just don't feel 
 up to today's standards. It could be worse, but it could be a whole lot better at the same time.
 
  
  Value: The single player should take you a couple hours, and there are a few multiplayer modes 
 to play after you are done. Ultimately though, it would be much better if there were at least some 
 inclusion of online play. Split screen just doesn't seem to cut it, especially not with Red Steel.
 
  
  Overall, I would only recommend this game if you are desperately in need of a new FPS game, and 
 you have absolutely no other choices in the genre. This is a great rental, but a horrible purchase. 
 The control scheme saves this game from being horrible, but it doesn't by any means save it from 
 mediocrity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crisis_Eye
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 17, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel looked like an awesome game when they showed the trailers of it on Gamespot. Controlling 
 the way your gun moves with your wrist, nothing can be better than that. When I got it I was pretty 
 easy to control after a while. Nothing to hard. Aiming can get pretty annoying though since you 
 have to hold the Wiimote very steady so it doesn't move. Sword fighting is not what I had expected. 
 I thought you would be able to move the sword freely in your hand like you can with the gun. Either 
 they didn't have time to develop this into the game or they figured, But wait, then you can stab 
 yourself. That isn't a big part of the game though, I got over it.
  
  Graphics are nothing too great or anything. For a new title that just came out on the Wii, it's 
 what you'd expect. A few hands heads and guns can be seen through the walls at times but thats 
 alright sometimes. The only really bad graphics that I caught was the players wrists in multiplayer. 
 It looks totally detached from the arm, like it could snap off any second. Scenery in multiplayer 
 isn't detailed much at all. It was kind of in between N64 graphics and Gamecube graphics.
  
  Sound mainly consists of gunshots, people cursing at your and explosions. Your usual FPS game.
 
  I think the developers got lazy when they were making this. They didnt put enough detail into 
 the game at all. Theres this car in one stage and I tried shooting out the window of it. It didn't 
 break so I shot it again and the whole car blows up and I die... Now if they make a car explode 
 in a game, at least make us have to shoot the gas tank or engine...
  
  Overlall, it's an OK game, with it's mini glitches here and there.
  But there are a few good 
 things about it too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seifer_Randas
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 17, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  I thought I had something to really look forward to with the Wii : a first person shooter with 
 sword fighting and the yakuza. I loved the thought of the combination but who would have thought 
 that this was nothing what I expected. The execution was not nearly complete and the game itself 
 did not deliver. I am not saying it was horrible, but it seemed that the developer sent us a game 
 that was not complete. Like buying a gameboard but without the pieces. The story was good and the 
 characters were designed well, but the controls were difficult only because of the aggravation 
 with the sensitivity. Even on low it was hard. I would have also preferred Japanese with English 
 subtitles considering the voice acting wasn't too great. The sword fighting was also a let down. 
 You could basically swing three ways: up, down, and across. Luckily, you could learn some pretty 
 cool moves that could take your opponents out in a few hits if you could. There were enough weapons 
 and sniping was fun, but only when I could find a sniper rifle and ammo. One great thing about 
 the game was the checkpoints. If you reached a checkpoint, but died in the ensuing battle, then 
 you respawn back to where the checkpoint was. The game also auto-save which was good. I also thought 
 the length of the game was fairly long which is unusual plus there are secrets to figure out and 
 unlock. I honestly didn't feel like unlocking anymore after I completed the game. This FPS is only 
 good as a rental or at least when the price goes down to at least $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phalanx-2k6
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 17, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  Yay:
  Interesting Gunplay, small but varied arsenal of weaponry, pyrotechnics look superb, AI can be 
 challenging
  
  Nay:
  Various glitches can ruin your experience and even force you to replay entire missions, AI can 
 be a bit stupid, Swordplay just doesn't feel satisfying, gestures of the nun-chuck aren't always 
 picked up as well as you would want, forced into watching un-skippable cut scenes during fire fights, 
 Main Menu is confusing, 2D story cut-scenes look unbelievably cheap
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Red Steel gave me on a lot of Mixed Reactions, for me some parts of the game weren't actually half 
 bad, on the other side I found myself asking myself why am I playing this game...
  In Red Steel you play as some guy called Scott, you have a fianc&eacute; e and you're having a romantic 
 dinner in a snazzy restaurant. Your meal is cut short by a group of Japanese thugs running in guns 
 a blazing, before you know it all hell breaks loose and your girlfriend gets kidnapped. You find 
 out that her Dad is some important Yakuza guy and his enemies have tried to get some all powerful 
 sword by capturing his daughter. I don't really know why I'm telling you the story since you never 
 really get deep enough into it to care about anyone or anything involved in it.
  
  For the Gameplay, you kinda have to split it up - Since half of the game there's the Gunplay, and 
 the other half is the Swordplay. Throughout the game I almost dreaded going into the next Sword 
 fight, just because I didn't enjoy any part of it. Alot of the time it boiled down to spamming 
 them to death at the right moment, other times you just had to keep attacking their sword. Either 
 way I just didn't get any fun out of using the it. It was good that the sword mimicked your general 
 swipe but it was nothing to make it amazing. On the other hand the Gun portions of the game (Which 
 actually takes up most of it) are a fair bit better, you get a wide variety of weapons to choose 
 from - Each and every one sound and feel great, a nice touch is that the reloading sounds come 
 out of the Wii-mote speaker. Aiming with the Wii-mote isn't bad at all, in fact it can be very 
 accurate once you get accustomed to the new controls. When I first saw Red Steel back at E3 turning 
 looked like it was going to be a real pain, even in more recent videos leading up to the release, 
 now having played the game I was really happy that turning was a breeze - Even on the default setting, 
 there was also a higher sensitivity for those who want that extra bit of aiming speed.
  
  Onto Graphics - This game looks more GC standard than anything for a Next-Gen (Or 'New' Gen) console. 
 It does still look good, the environments are interesting spanning across modern cities and japanese-type 
 estates, each fairly detailed however can look pretty bad in some places. Light effects are used 
 heavily in the game and any available surface gives sleek reflection or glow. Other effects are 
 also good, especially the explosions which look brilliant, very realistic and are just overall 
 cool to watch even if perhaps a little over exaggerated. A couple of things to point out about 
 the graphics, on each of the characters there is a strange white outline - It's not disturbing 
 but noticeable. Something that can actually get pretty disturbing and perhaps even annoying are 
 the arm movements, emulating your own wrist movements on screen where at times it looks like his 
 arm is spazzing out. The rest of the animation holds up fine, the majority of the movements including 
 scripted ones are convincing enough, although the presentation could've been alot better and smoothed 
 out. Destructible environments in the game add a bit of flavour into the fire fights, its nice 
 to see dust and smoke flying up out of shattering objects caught in the crossfire. A lot of the 
 games small items can be shot over and blown up one way or the other, sure this isn't anything 
 at all new but imagine what it would've seemed like if this hadn't been included in some way.
 
  
  Sound - The game's story is told through strange cheap looking 2D still images and a few in game 
 scenes, the voice acting in both can be really quite laughable at times, some of it isn't that 
 bad but really the accents and moods in the voice just didn't move me at the least. Setting that 
 aside all of the gun, explosion, ricochet sounds and the like are all great. By now all shooters 
 its a requirement to have very good quality and realistic sounding gunshots, thankfully in Red 
 Steel each weapon has good sense of power because of this. The clings and clangs in swordfights 
 are also cool, they were believable and not over exaggerated as they easily could have been. The 
 game also has a mixed soundtrack to fit the places that you visit, I never actually tried listening 
 out for it to hear how good it was but I did notice that a more action element was added to the 
 piece when you got into gun battles which did help set the mood.
  
  There isn't much Value in this game, it could've been so much better but just choosing to rush 
 it to be out alongside the release of the Wii meant that the game suffered greatly. The game does 
 offer a Multiplayer component but this just feels tacked on in every way possible. It bugs me that 
 the development team seemed to be boasting about the ideas they had going for the Multiplayer, 
 when the it turned out to be junk anyway. The models even look downgraded, for example when reloading 
 the pistol you don't even see the new clip being put in - Like you can in Singleplayer. This isn't 
 at all because the screen is too small, this is just complete lack of effort. Another obvious clue 
 that the game was rushed is that theres only 4 maps that you can play, which is down right stupid. 
 I could say much more about the Multiplayer but I summed it up with the word junk, and I'll leave 
 the exploring to you if you're curious enough to try this game. The game itself isn't overly long 
 but then again it isn't super short. All in all it's hard to recommend this game, I think for hardcore 
 FPS fans it'd be a bit easier but just from the list of Bad things its obvious that theres plenty 
 that could be improved upon. So I'll say this much, if you want to fill your FPS cravings think 
 about renting this game, if you do so then take what you play more as a demo than a full fledged 
 game. My opinion is that this game is more demo like, showing you how FPS could be played on the 
 Wii, if eventually you want to buy it - Check your bargain bin because I just don't think its worth 
 the &pound;30 or 40$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ignoman
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jan 15, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel was almost a great game. With a simple B- movie plot and some good settings for a shootout, 
 this game could have been a kickin single player FPS.
  
  Indeed, some parts of the game are really good... and those parts are the shooting sequences. Running 
 through office buildings and the like shooting Yakuza is very satisfying. Aiming with the Wii-mote 
 is cool and adds a lot to the experience, I think. There's a fair amount of destructable environments 
 too. The story is cheesy and forced... but what FPS story isn't? I enjoyed the presentation... 
 generic bad guys in action games don't bother me one bit.
  
  The music and the presentation is great too. It swells and thumps at just thr right times... making 
 it really seem like you're in an Asian crappy action flick. Awesome! The graphics? Well, there 
 not awful... but they're pretty average for LAST gen. Honestly I expected slightly better, but 
 these are certainly adequate.
  
  Too bad this game has too many problems to make it really good. The biggest offender is the control 
 scheme. It's downright useless. You use your wii-mote's pointer for turning, which is not nearly 
 as cool as it sounds. Trying to shoot someone at the edge of your screen? Navigating through a 
 hallway and not paying attention to your cursor? Well then, be prepared to bump into stuff, stagger 
 around corners, wave your head wildly through the air and spin around staring at your ankles. It's 
 a constant chore to keep yourself moving smoothly. Thank goodness the AI is stupid... if the enemies 
 were genuinely challenging and required you to effectively dodge and take cover, you'd be screwed. 
 The motion-sensing gun hand is neat... too bad I'm left handed, so when I shoot with pistols I 
 fire with my palms facing up. o_O
  
  Swordfighting boils down to a reaction-time minigame that is neither exciting nor fun. There's 
 no blood, the controls are way too simple and every motion delays about a half-second. Some fights 
 can be won by simply swinging wildly... others by the simple old dodge-counter and block-counter 
 patterns. Yawn.
  
  The game is also a little glitchy. You'll notice it most on the corpses, who twitch and scrumbly-bumble 
 all caddywampus on the floor because their dying animations are buggy. I also hear tales of people 
 being shot through walls (via the old ethereal gun trick) but that has yet to happen to me.
  
  Multiplayer is ok... but it really only succeeds on a large TV. Besides, it won't be long before 
 someone gets frustrated with the controls and quits anyway. It really feels like it was added as 
 an afterthought, and it doesn't add much to the game.
  
  The Verdict:
  
  I'm glad I only rented Red Steel... had I payed $50 for it I would have not got my money's worth 
 out of it.
  
  This game has some redeeming qualities, but despite how much I like it I cannot get past the clumsy 
 control scheme. Accurate and intuitive control is paramount to me, in case you're wondering why 
 I scored this game so poorly.
  
  For those hungry for FPS Wii action, you can go ahead and try this. You might like it. I STRONGLY 
 recommend you only rent it though. I got tired of it long before my 5-day period expired.
  
  Hopefully this is not a sign of what the Wii can-and-can't-do... and we'll see a good action 
 title on the Wii someday. Red Steel is not that game. If only they'd make RS2 with a fixed control 
 scheme, improved graphics and the swordfighting removed. Then I'd be in...
  
  If only...
  
  +Cool presentation and music
  +Shooting the poop out of a bunch of Yakuza in an office building 
 blaring with lousy J-Pop
  +Aiming with the Wii-mote is cool
  -Sluggish, terrible, stupid movement controls
  -Left-hander playable, but not left-hander friendly
 
  -AI is dumb
  -Game is buggy
  -Multiplayer mode is bare bones
  -Definently not worth $50 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaVILiOn_010
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 15, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this is just plain stupid. Ubisoft is good, this game is not. Does anyone else notice that?
 
  
  Graphics: 6.
  Honestly, this is the worst-looking next-gen game out there. The classics look worse, but they 
 are meant to be that way.
  
  Gameplay: 4!
  The aiming sucks more than anything else. The sword and gun-tilting concept is cool, it just sucks 
 here. Let's get some Elder Scrolls IV on here!
  
  Sound: 7
  I'm a sucker for music, yet not for this game. It is ok, but it gets so annoying, I usually just 
 mute the TV.
  
  Value: 3
  JUST RENT IT, PEOPLE! Don't waste valuable money on this. Buy Wii sports, or Twilight Princess. 
 Just don't buy this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: v3n0m111
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 14, 2007 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Although i havent played this game very long ive played it long enough to realize that it isnt 
 as great of game as it was believed to be. First off the starting sensitivity is terrible and it 
 is very difficult learning how to aim the gun directly at an enemy. The sword fighting however 
 is easy, but still fun and intriguing. I bought this game thinking, awesome, a good First Person 
 Shooter for the Wii. Now im thinking Maybe i should have played it at a friends house before buying 
 it. The storyline so far is not bad but i wish the characters mouths would move instead of it just 
 being pictures while they talk. The game is much funner after you have played for a while and are 
 used to the controls but still, it is no match for stronger games like Zelda: Twilight Princess. 
 If your considering buying this game you might want to play it first so you can get a feel for 
 it and decide whether you like it or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jan 27, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  As one of the most hyped games for the Wii, I have got to say I was extremely dissapointed. With 
 this being my second game to get for the Wii on launch day, I kinda do wish I had bought Raymon 
 instead. It does offer really interesting controls no doubt. Every move you make with your hand 
 is all captured perfectly and not a second short (except for sword fighting which is very off) . 
 However, that is the most this game has for it, and is the only true reason to give it a try. Aside 
 from the innovative controls, you are left with jaggy graphics and a cheesy storyline while having 
 to here cheesy one liners ( where'd he go? when all I did was move behind the wall) being yelled 
 by the enemy everytime you are in a firefight. Its a real shame considering this game did have 
 potential to be something great, and that is for the most part why I even gave it a 6.6. I think 
 it needed more time and maybe more effort put into it. Its fun to try, but not really to own. But 
 remember, this is how I feel bout it. One of my buddies loves this game, but as for me; its cool 
 to rent to experience but doesnt warrant a purchase, and if you purchase, wait till it drops to 
 20$. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigcalkenobi
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 30, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Red Steele was originally thought to be THE fps to have for the wii. While it may have sold well, 
 many Wii owners were letdown by the glichy game they got. It seems unfinished. There are many bugs 
 and glitches that couldve been easily avoided by spending up to 6 months extra time on. For all 
 the hype for it you would think that Ubisoft would put together the quality of many of their other 
 games such as farcry franchise on the Comp. and 360. For some reason about any game Ubisoft has 
 realeased for the Wii had som much hype for it and fans were letdown, such as Farcry Vengeance, 
 and several other games. So far the only one I'e played that is fun is Rayman, and that didnt really 
 have nearly as much hype as the others. Ubisoft hasnt been releasing games up to par and quality 
 as they are known for.
  
  The graphics in this game uses an interesting style. It was supposed to be as good as RE4, and 
 it was far from. The cut scenes are some of the worst cut scenes I've seen. They chose not to show 
 actual cutscenes, but to show panels with subtitles. It was a horrible choice, this is telling 
 many gamers who have played this, they were trying to make a quick dollar. The lips didnt mach 
 up with the words in in game cutscenes. A high point of the graphics are some of the people, including 
 sword fighters, looked very refined compared to other FPS games. Now the AI in the game is stupid. 
 The men in the game sometiimes just stand around not doing anything, but the there are sometimes 
 when they do very smart things, but much of the time is stupidity. The sword fighters, were actaully 
 decent at times, but some of them were plain easy.
  
  The contols are fairly difficult to learn, but once you learn them its not hard. The biggest complaint 
 of mine, is that the aiming seems overly sensitive. So count on seting for low sensitivity.
  
  The sword fighting was a big part of the hype, and for the mst part it lives up to it. The 
 sword fighting along with the multiplayer is what saves this game form pure suckige. The sword 
 fighting is fun, easy to learn and sometimes difficult. It controls very nicely. The multiplayer 
 was really fun, its not Halo or GoW, but its pretty descent. It runs well with a good selection 
 of guns and really beautiful explosions. If you want some good multiplayer (pretty much only multiplayer) 
 then this is a good game to rent.
  
  Overall, if you want to play a Wii game with a couple of friends, this isnt a bad choice to rent, 
 but by no means does the Single player come close to the hype. It is very buggy and glitchy. And 
 the only good thing about single player is the sword fighting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fer212007
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jan 14, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  this is not a game this is horrible this game have hype and i dont now why
  read ths critics to see the real red steel
  
  graphics are horrible the efect of explotions 
 is horrible the charecters models are horrible too and the hot efect is horrible like it were from 
 64
  the voice actin is stupid and the explotions sound half bad
  the gameplay is bad installed the player get out of control every 5 minutes
  and the sword fight 
 is prety bad this game not have any fun factor or value this is one of the poor craps nintendo 
 created really 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aerith879
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 14, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  While this game is very fun, it is a good play-through and filled with lots of action. Destroying 
 things is very fun to do in this game, and the scenery is pretty nice. I found the controls a bit 
 difficult myself, mainly turning and aiming. It was a little difficult to aim when someone is shooting 
 you and you are busy trying to turn around to them. However, with practice, it is not so bad. I 
 think future first person shooter games will look at this game as an example of what a good FPS 
 should be like, and then improve on things that this one needed improvements on.
  
  On other notes, this game was extremely fun to play. Whether it's just to pass the time, or for 
 whatever reason, this game is pretty addicting. The graphics are pretty nice, I think. The development 
 pictures looked much better, but the graphics are still very nice, especially where the light hits. 
 Other highlights of this game include the soundtrack. This game has surprisingly well done and 
 very fitting songs throughout it. I think the story could use some work, but it's decent enough 
 to enjoy the game. If you're unsure about whether you will like it or not, it might be a good idea 
 to rent it first. Red Steel is a great action game, very fun and worth playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 13, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  I was so looking forward to this game when I first saw this game at the 2006 E3. The first Mature 
 game shown for the Nintendo Wii at E3. So I was expecing a good FPS with the new Wii Controller. 
 But man how difficult it is to aim in the game. If it wasn't for the aimming in this game I could 
 say is a pretty good action pack game. You start off but meeting up with your girlfriend. And you're 
 about to meet her father for the first time to ask her to marry you. All of a sudden everything 
 goes bad she's kidnapped by some bad guys and you have to run after whoever took her from you. 
 So you go what any boyfriend would do go on a rampage and shoot anybody with guns lol. The action 
 is like every other FPS you've played. But the controller is what makes this bad a little difficult 
 and less enjoyable to play. Also prepare yourself for your arms getting tired playing through the 
 game. I like how you have to make hand movements to pick up a weapon, reload, moving objects out 
 of the way. I like all this stuff but when it comes to aimming you're going most of the time in 
 the wrong direct and you're being shot at and you're pointing and spining around in circles. If 
 anything I think this game would be a rental. I picked it up because I wanted to see for myself 
 if it was that bad to aim and it was. But I don't ever go by reviews if I'm getting I game I will 
 get it no matter what. But if you want to check it out rent it first before purchasing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finsmcculloch
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 13, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  I would first start by saying that this game is out of this world. The graphics are ps3 quality 
 and the gameplay completely rules. I am so sure you should buy it now that i will pay you to buy 
 it so that you dont miss out. The only flaw is that the controls are quite hard to get used to 
 but apart from this it totally works. Despite what other people say, I think that the sword fighting 
 completely works, and it will last you a lifetime as it has lots of replay value and the difficulty 
 is very adequately proportioned. Overall this game is a must buy for owners of the console, and 
 I will petrol bomb your house if you dont buy it.
  
  Im serious
  
  i will
  
  no jokes
  
  so you better watch yourself
  
  coz im coming for ya
  
  hahahahahahahahahahahaha 
 just kidding, but not really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shattered_glass
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 12, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I Decided to give this game a shot even with the 5.5 score, and I have to say they didn't know 
 what they were talking about because this game is pretty awesome. The sword fighting isn't too 
 impressive, but the first person shooting is excellent. I remember I had my doubts about the control 
 scheme, wondering if we would be able to react quickly with the Wiimote. But after playing for 
 a few minutes and mastering the controls, those doubts were washed away. The game does have it's 
 flaws, but what do you expect from a FPS that is the first of its kind. I think it was a great 
 launch title and a solid first step into the Wii FPS era. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrehistoricM2
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 11, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel was one of the first games revealed for the Nintendo Wii. With it's promises of realtime 
 fighting, awesome gunplay, and amazing multiplayer, the hype for this game was through the roof.
 
  Unfortunatley, somewhere along the way, a few things got dropped. First, why is it called Red 
 Steel? This line doesn't come up in the game, and there isn't any blood in the game.
  Perhaps the reason there is no blood is because your sword never actually hits the enemy. At least, 
 this is how it feels. There is an obvious (but workable, and helpful) disjoint between your swinging 
 and the game's swordplay. However, if the game let your Wiimote be your sword (IE realtime fighting) , 
 gameplay would probably be rather frustrating. Instead, we are presented with half-baked swordplay 
 that still manages to be fun, if not repetitive.
  Gunplay, despit what other reviews have said, is actually really cool. You are presented with a 
 wide variety of weapons to use, most of which can be held gansta style. Aiming isn't difficult, 
 and the ability to shoot the guns out of enemies hands is pretty cool.
  Multiplayer isn't really up to snuff. The controls seem a lot more twitchy when you only get 1/4 
 of the screen. It's still playable, and can be fun, but some of the fun comes from the bad controls, 
 and their effect on gameplay.
  
  Overall, this game is an ok launch title. It doesn't really innovate the FPS genre, but it is certainly 
 good proof that the Wii can handle first person shooters. It's also important to remember that 
 this is a launch titles. It's clear the Ubisoft worked hard on this, and it payed off, but perhaps 
 future showings could feel a little more tight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGremp
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel is a very fun game, and I personally think that the reason Gamespot gave it a bad review 
 is that they gave up before they gave it a chance.
  
  When I first played, it was frustrating, I couldnt control my aim and nothing was working smoothly 
 like I had hoped. But after a few days I gained steady hand and it was a really great game!
  
  Many of my friends played it and gave up, which I think was a big mistake, the game has a big 
 potential when you learn to play.
  
  Now, to the real review.
  
  
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay is great mainly because of the controls, you have way more control and it becomes 
 more natural. Instead of doing complex controls, youre just moving your arms and pulling the trigger. 
 Its really simple!
  
  There are many features that really make the game unique. Such as the focus mode which allows you 
 to stop time. When you do this, you have the ability to knock the enemys weapon away, and you 
 can choose to make him surrender and gain respect, or choose to be ruthless and finish him off.
 
  
  The swordfights have their ups and downs; sometimes they seem slow and boring, as the Gamespot 
 review said, sometimes it feels like two cavemen whacking each other rather than trained samurai 
 warriors. But theyre still entertaining because of the strategy involved and the fact that the 
 enemies get harder later in the game and makes it more of a challenge, which is always fun.
  
  The multiplayer isnt really anything special, but its decent and Multiplayer is always fun, 
 so its a nice addition considering that Call of Duty 3 doesnt have multiplayer.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics couldve been better, but I like the comic-book type shading involved. 
 It makes it more unique. Also, the explosions look pretty sweet. There really isnt much else to 
 say about the Graphics
  
  Sound:
  
  While in gameplay, there isnt anything special to say about the sounds, theyre just about average. 
 But the voice acting is a whole different story! The voice acting is horrible in so many ways 
 The script is corny and the performance of it just made it worse.
  
  In conclusion, this game is very fun, it has its downs with audio-visual, but thats not what the 
 Wii is about, its about gameplay, which they really hit on the mark here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chansaet
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 9, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  The controls can be hard at times but once you get used to them they are really not that bad. The 
 wii-mote offers a new experiance for the fps genre. The new experiance I say is very positive. 
 Aiming the wii-mote to shoot accually feels more natural than the using a traditional controller. 
 It is also alot more fun. Multiplayer is also a fun mode in this game. Shooting your buddies by 
 aiming the wii-mote seems to me more rewarding than and more fun. Although it is good the controls 
 could be better. Some of the controls that used motion senor should have been not. Like the granade 
 and espeacailly zooming in which is almost imposible to do and keep it zoomed. Not a good in practice.
 
  
  The graphic can be good at times but most of the time it is pretty bad. The character look horible 
 as well as the gun models. The game looks even worst in mutliplayer. Players from a distance looks 
 awfull. It sometimes gets really hard to even see someone due to the awful graphics. In single 
 player mode the graphics at times are really good. Some good lighting but this does not make up 
 for it.
  
  Red Steel has some good soundtrack but also some bad voice acting. They really needed to get some 
 japanese people to do the voice acting for japanese characters. They infact do not sound like a 
 japanese person trying to speak english but an american trying to speak english with a bad japanese 
 acent.
  
  I gave the value a 7 because even though the game is not that long it is fun. The mutliplayer will 
 keep you in for a while but due to the fact there is only 4 maps and 3 modes it does hurt the games 
 value.
  
  The game was surpisingly good even with all of its flaws. The controls does require a big learning 
 curve but once you get them down it will feel very natural. Graphics does need some work. The game 
 does in fact feel rushed. Given a few more months the game could have been alot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirLarr_basic
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jan 8, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Its hard to live in a world thats moved past the mindless pulp action movies of the 80s. From 
 time to time a man grows listless without the oiled chests, infinite ammunition, myopic henchmen, 
 and quippy one-liners that the Van Dammes and the Stallones used to supply. Red Steel, the premiere 
 first-person shooter (FPS) on the Wii from Ubisoft, attempts to recreate this one-man army experience. 
 Unfortunately, Red Steel is about a years worth short of an excellent game. What remains is 
 a mediocre experience, and missed potential the size of Schwarzeneggers bicep.
  
  Red Steels plot rivals that of Double Dragon in its complexity. Scott, a genuine American 
 badass with no last name or personality, embarks to meet the father of his new fianc&eacute; e. 
 Yakuza thugs disrupt them while they wait and steal the girl right out from under Scott. Whats 
 an ex-bodyguard to do but take the law into his own hands? Throughout the game, the player will 
 grab guns, swords, and eventually learning who kidnapped the poor lass and other uninteresting 
 tidbits  all told through uninterruptible cut-scenes that definitely get old if seen more than 
 once. With guns blazing, Scott sets off to tally up a mountain of henchmen victims, stopping for 
 the occasional swordfight. As the game goes on, Scott learns to string together combos with the 
 sword, and to freeze time temporarily to queue up shots with guns to either disarm or kill an entire 
 room at once. Sounds good  shooting and stabbing things makes for great fun right? Unfortunately, 
 control issues go a great deal to diminish what fun there is to be had.
  
  Red Steel is one of the first games to take a crack at FPS controls on the Wii. The player controls 
 the crosshairs on screen with the Wiimote. When the crosshairs get close enough to the edge of 
 the screen, the viewpoint will turn in that direction  essentially creating a deadzone for pointer-aiming 
 in the center of the screen. The cursor can loosely lock on to enemies, and zoom in by moving the 
 Wiimote forward. This method works well after twenty minutes or so of adjustment, but Often, and 
 seemingly without reason, the cursor will blink to the middle of the screen and the game will temporarily 
 ignore any input from the controller. This is fantastically frustrating during a shootout, and 
 happens far too frequently to be an unknown bug. Furthermore, this behavior doesnt exist in any 
 other Wii title out there, so its definitely a software issue.
  
  Sword fighting is great fun near the beginning of the game. Opponents will either do light jabs 
 or heavy swings; the player must counter by parrying (swiping the nunchuck) or dodging (moving 
 the analog stick) , respectively. Near the end of the game though, the animation for these attacks 
 is so short that the player has to guess which attack is coming  eating a long and annoying combo 
 if the guess is wrong. Many players will waste hours trying to attempt the combos the game offers 
 as well. Later combos use motions with the Wiimote and nunchuck that Red Steel just refuses to 
 recognize.
  
  Visually, Red Steel is like a Life-Saver pack you get that only has one strawberry. Muddy textures 
 and bland character models do little to give the game any visual appeal. Some of the lighting effects 
 are excellent however. This makes me wonder if they had a list of graphical bells and whistles 
 to work on. Perhaps environmental lighting was at the top, and the rest were axed to get the game 
 out the door for the Wii launch.
  
  Level design is much the same story  mostly bland with a bright spot here and there. Red Steel 
 features such FPS mainstays as The Crate Factory, The Docks Level, and The  
 Red Steel does have one or two genuinely distinctive environments though. For instance  in order 
 to assuage a yakuza boss to ally with you, you must go through his twisted fun-house of traps and 
 obstacles. One room is full of creepy life-size anime women mannequins wearing pink bodysuits. 
 A group of goons ambush you here, all of them wearing one of the pink bodysuits as camouflage. 
 Its the first time Ive ever gunned down hairy Japanese yakuza thugs wearing frilly pink bodysuits, 
 thats for sure.
  
  Red Steels soundtrack boasts a mix of semi-traditional Japanese music (during swordfights) , 
 and high-energy j-rock (during gunfights) . The music works really well with the game, amplifying 
 the tension of a swordfight or the all-out chaos of a gun battle. Red Steel boasts impressive 
 sound effects during swordfights as well. Swords satisfyingly clang and hum resonantly after a 
 hard clash. Hearing the clang from the Wiimote inspired a kiddish glee I havent felt since age 
 seven when I constantly smacked my sister with a cardboard tube and created the ka-chaaaang sound 
 with my mouth. Explosions and gunfire sound bland and recycled, however.
  
  On its own, Red Steel is a very average game, but this is hard to swallow considering how good 
 it couldve been. The game boasts a respects system that is little more than an arbitrary score. 
 Respects can be earned by sparing opponents after swordfights or disarming opponents in gun-battles, 
 but amassing them serves no purpose other than earning a higher rank at the end of a level.
  
  This mechanic couldve done so much more for the game. Perhaps unlock concept art and music? 
 Maybe even factor it in to the gameplay  respect enemies and they will respect you. Maybe even 
 get the respect high enough and enemies will not shoot the player in the back, or if it goes too 
 low they will use overpowered weaponry. It is not the intent of this review to design a game for 
 Ubisoft, but it is disconcerting when its so easy to think of what couldve been done.
  
  Red Steel had the potential to carve (heh heh) its own niche in the FPS genre, which is hard 
 to do given how many people try these days. I would like to see what that team could do with the 
 same concept and as much time as they needed to fully flesh out the ideas. Ultimately, Red Steel 
 ends up being like a high school date: some dumb fun but not fifty bucks worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmyhasgotagun
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is sadly to say a very cool idea gone wrong. It could've been something very interesting, 
 and it had much potential from the get go of this console, but it just is Terrible. Gamespot is 
 generous giving this a 5.5. That's rather kind of them, seeing as how I am going to give this game 
 a stunning P. O. S. Rating. It sucked. The controls are choppy, the voice overs are terrible, and 
 as I recall, acting is supposed to be used to immerse a person further in a non-realistic scenario, 
 meaning, I was not immersed with this game at all. Please don't ever sell any crap on the shores 
 of America like this mstake ever again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thor1981
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 7, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Granted I only rented this game, but I was jonesing for a shooter, and since I couldn't test drive 
 Call of Duty 3 for the Wii, this was next up to bat. For starters, the control system works fairly 
 well. The gunplay works very well with the Wiimote and nunchuck, acting like a hybrid between a 
 mouse and console controller. The nunchuck is used to open doors, pick up weapons, reload, and 
 flip over tables to creat cover. The game senses the movements very well, with nary a hiccup. I 
 wish the whole table-flipping for cover was implemented more often, because it does work. It's 
 just not there very often. The big deal about this game was the usage of the Wiimote to simulate 
 sword play. Cool idea in theory, but in practice the sword play is very basic, almost boring. After 
 the first few swordfights, I was quikcly looking forward to going back to shooting boomsticks instead. 
 The swordplay pops up often, but not in a way that avoids feeling tacked on. And in multiplayer, 
 you can't even use the katanna. I was hopping for a Halo 2 swordplay style (for multiplayer, not 
 in the story) , but it was not to be. The other issues I have were the bland graphics. The backgrounds 
 are a mixed bag of pretty fountains and lighting, and flat textures with aliasing problems. Jaggies 
 galore, if you will. The story progresses via graphic novel-like panels, which may have been intended 
 to look stylish (like XIII) , but really endup looking lazy and almost humorous. The enemy AI is 
 standard popup and down from cover, but often times the baddies will run out from cover and charge 
 you, waiting to absorb your wrath. Gears of War or FEAR it ain't.
  As much as I'm trashing it, there is a good game in hear, possibly even stellar. It just really 
 needed to be polished. What is here is fun for a time, and engagin, but it will most likely soon 
 be forgotten as better FPS games for the Wii make their way down the pipe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 7, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel had a lot of potential, but it falls flat on it's face.
  
  The controls are intuitive, which is promising for FPS games in the future. It makes good use of 
 the motion sensors, even if it is often awkward. But, where the game fails is in everything else.
 
  
  Graphics are horrible. A few nice effects dot the battlefields, but overall the quality is that 
 of a low-end Gamecube game. This is unacceptable, considering that the Wii is quite powerful. Add 
 to it a bunch of bugs, ugly character models, and Nintendo 64 quality multiplayer graphics, and 
 you have a bad looking game.
  
  Sounds is nice... except for voiceacting. The music is great, but it gets old listening to poor 
 quality V/O all game.
  
  The gameplay is fun, but pretty much uninspiring. Nothing new graces the game. The AI has the same 
 quality as that of Goldeneye for the N64, meaning nearly non-existent. The game for the most part 
 plays okay, just kind of boring and dull, especially the horrible sword-fighting scenes.
  
  Overall, the game is extremely poor, and is about as good as a tech demo for future FPSs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redhawk360
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jan 8, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  Red steel is one of those games that youll play through just to finish it the game play is fun 
 because it just throws tons of enemies at you and you have to kill them all but it has no substance 
 the music is fitting however the sound effects for the guns are dull. It felt as if it was unpolished 
 and rushed to get it out for the release date. The enemies look as if they have a little white 
 outline around them and look kind of like peaces of paper. The multiplayer lacks in substance and 
 is very dull. Overall I would buy it but dont expect much from it. If you dont expect much youll 
 be pleasantly surprised 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insanemonkey2
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 7, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  Story: You are a man named Scott. When you first start the game, you are on a date with your girlfriend. 
 She wants you to meet her father, Sato. She takes you to her father, but you have to stand outside 
 of the room she's in because of the body guards and whatnot. A waiter comes up and starts shooting 
 people. So then the story get's started. The yakuza betray Sato and help the other guy who I can't 
 remember the name for at the moment. Your girlfriend is kidnapped and you go on a big mission to 
 save her. Same old same old story. But it's add's a little twist to it, which I won't mention.
 
  
  Story: 8/10
  
  Gameplay: It's like your average shooter... except you have the Wii Remote and Nunchuku at your 
 disposal. Move the Wii Remote to aim your gun. You can also tilt it to the side for gangster style 
 action. The B button fires your gun. Pushing left on the d-pad makes Scott reload. Pressing the 
 - button displays your objectives. Pressing + pauses the game. Thats basaclly it for the Wii Remote. 
 On the nunchuk, the control stick moves Scott, the C button makes Scott jump, and the Z button 
 makes Scott crouch. Everybody is complaining about the controls... well they can go jump off a cliff, 
 cause the controls are GREAT. Moving is easy, and looking around is also easy. I don't see why 
 people complain. The only BAD thing about the gameplay is that it's hard and the AI needs some 
 work. The AI at times will just walk right past you and stare at a wall. 5 minutes later they will 
 actually see you and start shooting at you. There are TONS of enemies. This makes the game kinda 
 hard. But I beat it, so you can beat it... maybe.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  Sound: The sound is pretty good. The sounds are crisp and the flow nicely with the game. The only 
 drawback is that the game replays the music and some of the levels, s you will be hearing the same 
 song quite a few times. The voice acting is also good.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  Graphics: It's gameplay &gt; graphics people. Even though the graphics of Red Steel aren't as good 
 as the 360 or PS3's graphics, they are damn good looking.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  
  Other Things: The game is kinda short, I beat it in 5 hours or so, but I left my wii on sometimes 
 with Red Steel playing, so my finished time was about 7 hours.
  
  Overall: If you have a Wii and are a fan of FPS's, you have to check this game out. It's either 
 a hate it or love it kinda game, and I love it. Rent it first to see if you like it.
  
  I give Red Steel, a 8.4 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jammamamma
Rating: 2.1
Date: Jan 7, 2007 12:18 am PT
Review:  Killing people with swords (not chopping their heads off, knocking them in the temple) is a good 
 idea, but it seems like someone failed. Ubisoft decided to play the It sounds like a cool game 
 card and produce the **** game they could to make a cheap buck off of.
  The game has no better graphics than Perfect Dark on N64 and I daresay, a worse engine.
  Shooting 
 people is fine... the first time.
  The whole game consists of: urban setting (warehouse, garage) , 5000 generic enemies (black people, 
 warehouse workers, wangsters who all shout generic things like I'll get you! Damn! every 6 seconds) , 
 and a generic underlying scheme that has to do with Japan. Certain parts of the game are deceivingly 
 easy. The first 15% of the game or so is a bore, it's so easy. But there's a turning point!
  Between cutscenes, the game goes from too easy to bend-you-over-a-chair hard. Overnight, regular 
 factory workers turn into olympic sharpshooters. A lot of the time you ask Where the hell am I 
 being shot from? 
  This game is nice if you can deal with a repetitive, clunky, ugly piece of crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liandifel
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 6, 2007 11:24 pm PT
Review:  You my have payed attention to the rating gamespot gave it but it deserves at least an 8. This 
 game has some awesome features that have never been seen before and should be greatly respected 
 for that. Ok the game might have some glitches but which game doesn't and the glitches don't make 
 the game play bad. Don't pay attention to all the haters out there in other words like the dude 
 in the video. This game is extremely addicting. It kind of grows on you. Ok first your bad at aiming 
 but over time as the game progresses you feel your self becoming more skilled. You can kill or 
 un-arm enemies faster, get head shots without zooming in and win sword fights with the coolest of 
 sword katas and special 2 bladed moves. The gun play isn't that bad either specially th tilting 
 aka holding the gun gangsta-style. lol.
  Explosions make the game play the more enjoyable What is more fun than blowing up stuff? There 
 is one thing i haven't mentioned. The Music. Tom Salta, i believe his name is, did an awesome job 
 on red steel's music. He created the perfect fusion of jpop and rock and even traditional music. 
 My favorites are the percussion tracks. Ohhhhhh they were so cool! Ubisoft did a good job with 
 this title but it would've been better if they would have just taken a little more time to make 
 it. I wonder if they have beta testers? Red Steel is hands down a must have for the wii. Don't 
 rent it like my friend did. I assure you you will miss it like your first lost puppy who you lost 
 on the playground when you were three and you have never forgiven yourself for it and cry yourself 
 to sleep at night just thinking about it. Seriously! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldawgs50
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 6, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  5.5. Why? This game isn't, by all means, mediocre. Red Steel offers awesome, but getting-used-to 
 gameplay, an excellent storyline, and good graphics. I feel immersed into the gangster side of 
 Japan while using my remote and nunchuk. Lighting seems to be an issue for a lot of people, but 
 it isn't for me. For all those people who say it is a problem, there is a menu key either on your 
 remote (TV) or on your television set. Now scroll down, and try to find brightness. Increase the 
 increment. Now is that better? I thought so. Another thing I love about Red Steel is the beautifully 
 mastered environment, and the destructible surroundings such as TV's, neon lights, cars and beer 
 bottles. Oh how I love shooting at someone behind a bar counter! My personal fav is the fact that 
 this game has action-movie style explosions and fire. I recommend Red Steel for all who want a 
 gangster-shooter, as I call it, for your Wii collection. I love this game, and most of the 'mediocre' 
 reviews come from people who also own a PS3 or an XBox-360. They don't look at the gameplay at 
 all. But, the graphics are good, good enough for me. I just got Red Steel, but I think I've played 
 it long enough to love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weakan
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 12, 2007 4:51 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD: a cool JAKUZA style THIS GAME HAVE, many weapons to get, a good variety of first person 
 shooter and katana sword fights, many katana skills to get, handy FOCUS MODE to disarm your enemys 
 or kill then faster, good graphics, good sound, good and easy controls from THE WII-REMOTE AND NUNCHUCK, four 
 players multi-player mode, good level design {you can feel that you are in Tokyo} NICE!!!! explosion 
 effects.
  THE BAD POINTS: no blood, YOU CAN HEAL ALL YOUR LIVE POINTS TO EASY {stand still a few seconds} .
 
  [CONCLUSION] an ABSOLUTE MUST HAVE for everybody who want a terrific good shooter. and i dont get 
 it that gamespot gave this game a 5.5 just like FARCRY: VENGEANCE that awesome shooter to {only 
 mine opinion} but the graphics of of FARCRY: VENGEANCE are not so good but that dont bother me, and 
 REDSTEEL have terrific graphics just like THE LEGEND OF ZELDA: TWILIGHT PRINSES. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithguy1234
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Games available at a consoles launch are often difficult to figure out. There is always the games 
 that you had high hopes that end up falling on there face and then there are the games that no 
 one thought would be good that end up delivering. Red Steel falls into both categories. At one 
 time it was hailed as the rebirth of the FPS but after a couple of showings it lost it's touch. 
 After playing and beating the game I found it falls somewhere in the middle.
  
  I find it strange that European developers try to make games based on other cultures and thats 
 exactly what this game does. They take you on a ride through the Japanese Yakuza in a attempt to 
 rescue Miya, your fiance. The dialogue in the game is as if an American tried to translate Japanese 
 into English with strange results. The story is told with a combination of still images and real 
 time cut scenes that could have been better just to leave out because the women's voices and some 
 of the men sound awful. It becomes you goal to convince local Yakuza to come to your side in an 
 attempt to go after Tokai, the guy who stole your girl and killed her father. Despite the voices 
 and the still images the story starts to become engaging enough to make you want to complete the 
 game. Its an average story for a video game but I found it could have been told in a much better 
 way.
  
  The gameplay is like a guy with a split personality. One guy likes to do the shooting while the 
 other like to do the sword fighting. When and where you do one of the two is determined by the 
 game. This would have been better if your enemy's would have gotten out there swords when you did 
 making it seem like a modern day Star Wars game. But this couldn't be done because when you do 
 get into a sword brawl you can earn Respect points that help unlock new moves with your sword and 
 your choice of weapons before a mission (later in the game) . On the shooting parts you have the 
 traditional machine guns, pistols, sniper rifles, grenades, and the works. While the guns you get 
 has already been done what you do with them has not. Later in the game you get the ability to stop 
 time and mark specific body parts of your enemy's and bust off some caps in rapid motion. This 
 becomes extremely useful when you get this because you can target your opponents guns and shoot 
 them out of there hands. At this point you have the option of finishing them off or just letting 
 them live. Letting them live will give you more Respect points in the game so I found myself just 
 letting all the ones that I do this to live. Sword fights come regularly but don't last long. This 
 makes the game about 80% gun play and 20% sword play. When you do get into a sword fight you will 
 be locked into a one on one sword fight unable to roam freely which makes since because your opponent 
 has nothing to distract him or her.
  
  The single play mode will last you a couple of days and when your done there is a fairly fun multi 
 player mode. There is only 3 modes to play featuring the typical death match and team death match. 
 I played 2 of the three and have yet to play Killer mode. In this one the Wii-mote speaker will 
 give the players specific instructions and the first to accomplish the objective is the winner. 
 Its the only mode that makes use of the Wii's unique assets and is suppose to be a lot of fun as 
 long as you have a decent sized TV. You can only play the multi player mode with friends on a split 
 screen because the game has no online which can be a big bummer to people.
  
  The game also has its share of good and not so good graphics. Some parts of the game has a great 
 landscape, destructible environments, and looks like one of the more impressive Wii launch titles 
 and at other times it looks like it was a game made for the Gamecube with blocky environments and 
 blurry textures. And while the characters seem really bad the music in the game is second to none. 
 It is long and powerful that gives the player a since of urgency and fear on some levels.
  
  The game also takes full advantage of the Wii. With its unique design of play it feels just 
 like a mouse on a computer making head shots much more able then other games such as Halo. But 
 the developers didn't put enough sensitivity into the game making it impossible to be in the open 
 during a gun fight. You will find yourself looking for a place to hide with a view of the area 
 and popping up to get a few shots in. But if you do find yourself with low health then you can 
 find yourself a quiet spot and regain health in about 10 seconds but because of sensitivity problems 
 this can be easier said then done. But a rebound to this is the completely stupid enemy's you will 
 face. They have no problem standing out in the open and become simple targets for you but at other 
 times they will hide for them selfs just as you will. But another rebound is that all of the enemy's 
 are dead eyes and can find and shoot you faster then you can say WHAT THE CRAP! . You swap weapons 
 using the D-Pad and just like Halo you can only carry two at once. The sword play can be bad. There 
 is only 8 directions to swing your sword and do a poor job to mimic where you actually swing making 
 the ability to learn new sword moves absolutely pointless.
  
  Despite its flaws if your a fan of Japanese culture then you will have a lot of fun with it but 
 I hardly consider it a buy. Either rent it or wait for the bargen bin with a low price. All an 
 all Red Steel has a lot of potential to be something great but didn't do a good job doing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luke_Randazzo
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 5, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  No, it's ok ubisoft, we'll wait a few months for you to smooth out the control scheme, it's alright, 
 we'll even wait a year for you to fix all the grafical glitches! These are the words i wish i could've 
 said to ubisoft before they released this game. It's better that a system has few launch titles 
 than suckey ones. It's a complete shame too, because Red Steel is a really well thought out idea, 
 that completely fails in every area. I will admit, there are some occasional areas that are impressive 
 in grafical prowess, mostly the outdoor environments. The chararcter models, however, are completely 
 terrible. This would've been laughable on gamecube, but it's insulting on wii. If the GC can do 
 RE4, i'm sure the wii can do MUCH better than this. Glitches are strewn in high amounts across 
 the game. The frame rate is terribly inconsistant, and every so often can drop as low as literaly 
 1 per second. I will commend Ubisoft, however. The music is very well done in this game, but it's 
 coupled with very mediocre sounds that seem like they are incorrectly timed sometimes. The gameplay 
 is where this game fails the most. The gun battles are quite well done, but the melee attack for 
 close range is incredibly inconsistant, and doesn't work when you need it to. And about 50% of 
 the time, glitches plague this game horribly. for instance, when you are pointing at the screen, 
 every so often your cursor and on screen arm begin jumping around wildly, making impossible to 
 shoot what you want to shoot. Not only that, but the AI you're facing is incredibly imbalanced. 
 What i mean is that from across an entire map with a pistol, they won't miss you. but from about 
 5 feet away, they sit there unloading their guns completely unable to hit you. It's actually kindof 
 fun to point at their head and see how long it takes them to hit you once from close distance. 
 The grenade mechanic are very slow, and make it a pain in the butt to throw grenades. There is 
 a zoom in function, when you are aiming, if you push your remote toward the screen it will zoom 
 in, unfortunately, this is also very glitchy, and goes back and forth between working and not working. 
 Also, the sword battles, ubisoft has been releasing trailers that had led me to believe that the 
 onscreen sword does something remotely similar to what your hand is doing, but it doesn't. As far 
 as value goes, you'll beat it once... and not want to play it much more. You might try multiplayer, 
 but crowding that many people on one screen sux. My tilt is because i really respect that ubisoft 
 was the first to try this... Unfortunately, i really can't recommend this game, wait for Metroid 
 Prime 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smeg1967
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 5, 2007 2:57 am PT
Review:  Red steel everyone gives it a hard time but i dont see what all the fuss is about. Its actually 
 quite good. IF (and this is a big if) Red steel appeared on the ps3 folk would hate it because 
 in truth the game isn't really up to much without the wii's motion sensor cappabillities. Its a 
 very simple game but has some great moments, i particularly liked the explotions. Great weapons, 
 Doddgy voice-acting, controls sometimes a bit wonkey but apart from that its a blast. If you're 
 a PC FPS lover, who analy crittisises and FPS because its not half life or halo stay away.
  If you like a good laugh and enjoy fun buy it, you'll be pleased 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocktimusprime
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 5, 2007 2:08 am PT
Review:  Red Steel has many problems. Control issues? Check. Dated Graphics? Check. Bad Story? Check. Terrible 
 Voice Acting? You bet.
  Boring Weapons? It's no chainsaw/gun combo that's for sure.
  
  Red Steel is worth a chance though... read on. I felt that Red Steel executed it's gun-play extremely 
 well. You really feel like your holding the weapons. The gun design leaves much to be desired, 
 and there isn't a great variety of weapons. Also, The novelty of turning your pistol sideways is 
 quickly worn out, although you will never get tired of shooting exploding cars, barrels and pipes 
 and feeling like you caused the explosions. The levels in the game offer plenty of opportunities 
 to point your gun at exploding items to cause massive damage, resulting in a huge grin on your 
 face. Killing opponents with the Wii-mote is very satisfying. Controllers in shooters never made 
 me feel like I was the force behind the gun, but Red Steel and the Wii-mote put you behind the 
 trigger nicely, and it feels great. Zooming in with weapons is much easier said than done in Red 
 Steel, and some-times the game tries to go too crazy with the motion controls. Throwing grenades 
 is a blast though, and under handing with the nunchuk rolls them. Red Steel's sword-play, though 
 oddly thrown into levels, can be fun and offer a nice change of pace. Most of your sword fights 
 are pretty easy, and you might find it easy to just dodge and parry, rather than block and do all 
 the crazy moves. The Wii-mote is extremely responsive for the guns, but for the swords, it could 
 use some more work. Some swings will not register, or go the way you swung the controller.
  
  Red Steel doesn't offer a great story, or much in the name of eye-candy. Cut-scenes are drawn 
 out in cel-style, but you probably won't care because you won't care much for the story anyway. 
 Some levels offer some great game play, such as rooms filled with pipes that when shot blow up, 
 emitting steam everywhere, or barrels placed on high-rises so victims fall from great heights. 
 It's all very satisfying and fun, but with no story behind it, you just feel like you are just 
 mindlessly killing people.
  
  In conclusion, If shooters are your thing, and you are willing to look past the games flaws, you 
 might find that Red Steel is an enjoyable experience for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prattfactor
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 3, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  This Game is hard but its realy fun... If you dont have patience your not going to do well playing 
 this Game.. The Turning system is a little hard but you will get used to it.. The Sword Play is Very 
 Fun and Makes Good use of the Wii Mote.. The Cut Scenes are Very Poor... The cut scenes are Illustrated 
 Images in a Power Point like format. This game can be very bad but it can also be a little bad... Red 
 Steel Is a Good Release tittle For the nintendo Wii
  But it shouldnt be the first game you Buy for the nintendo Wii
  I give Red Steel a 7.6 out of 
 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superbradleyo77
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jan 3, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Prior to its release, Red Steel appeared to be a promising title which would get the Wii off and 
 running. This game barely moves the system from the starting line. Luckily for Nintendo, other 
 launch games are able to pick up the pace and finish strong.
  
  Gameplay: Although it introduces what could be a unique and enjoyable control scheme, the overall 
 feel of the game is lacking depth and detail. Perhaps the most exasporating aspect of Red Steel 
 is the ammount of enemies thrown at you throughout the game. In a large warehouse, for example, 
 you may have to kill roughly 30 some enemies before even moving into the next room which is completely 
 absurd. On top of that, if you crouch for your health to regenerate (which is a pain in multiplayer) 
 you may be shot from the side, which you think is blocked off. The arrow that shows you where the 
 shot came from doesn't help much, either. If you get shot by someone just slightly to the left 
 of you, the arrow appears at the far left edge of the screen, leaving you thinking that the shot 
 came from the absolute left flank. Another rather silly aspect of Red Steel is the ability to lock-on 
 to enemies. Again, this is incredibly agrivating in its multiplayer. You can literally follow an 
 enemy while locked on if he is behind a wall and a mile away. As soon as he pokes his head out, 
 you can get a simple headshot.
  
  Graphics: The surroundings present in Red Steel are without the slightest bit of detail. Player 
 faces show no expression, and the weapon models are rather..... box.. ish. I'm not one to critique 
 graphics, because quite frankly, gameplay is what makes the game, but when a supposed next-gen 
 game looks like a Nintendo 64 game, it leaves me wondering.
  
  Sound: Where to start with perhaps the worst aspect of this game. I swear if I hear the word creep 
 one more time, I might throw my TV out the window. LET ME GO YOU CREEEEEP! Die CREEEEEP! Honestly, 
 when was the last time you said creep? The voice acting in this game is so disastrous, that at 
 times it becomes humorous. Absolute thugs will have the voice of college professors with PHD's, 
 while a cop will have 50 Cent's voice or something. I don't mean to sound racist, because I'm nothing 
 of the sort, but don't you think Ubisoft could have SLIGHTLY adjusted the accents of some of the 
 characters in the game? I mean, it takes SO much out of the story.
  
  Value: Red Steel is a fairly lengthy game, but it has absolutely NO replay value. You will not 
 want to beat this game again after you breeze through it the first time.
  
  Red Steel brought what could have been a game-of-the-year-calibur game to the Wii, but the finished 
 version was nothing of the sort. Concluding, at times I felt that gnawing my own leg off was a 
 better way to spend my time than playing Red Steel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssjtimmy
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 2, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  I bet you were way excited when you heard about Red Steel and probably still are. I know i was 
 very excited. Well this game is not as bad as they all say and its definitely not a 5.5 game. But 
 it isn't the best. this game could have been the turning point from FPS on computer to Wii. They 
 messed up. The gameplay is actually quite fun. The sword fighting is brilliant and I would give 
 that aspact a 9.0 but the gun shooting is buggy and the reticle jumps. I'm still pretty desent 
 at the game but that could have been tweaked and fixed alot. As I said the sword fighting is amazing 
 and adds alot of depth to the game. My biggest gripe is the story and the characters though. The 
 story sucks and the characters don't have enough personality. They mat have traditional Japanese 
 accent but thats about it. There is actually a pretty good arrangement of weapons and multiplayer 
 is still a blast even though it can get buggy. Overall I like this game for its gameplay and multiplayer. 
 Thats about it though. The developers had a game they thought they could do a half crap job on 
 and make bank on a new system. So i reccomend renting this one. Buy Twilight Princess and DBZ: 
 Budokai Tenkaichi instead. O yah the graphics are great. O and the soundtrack is great but the 
 wepon sounds arnt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 2, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Now red stell is not for every one I'll start off with that. Some things here will throw FPS fans 
 right off. While others will be able to stick with it. The game starts off on a slow note. Your 
 in the hotel with your GF leanring tthe basics. Then it gets to the action. Aiming is a little 
 sensative so tone it down before you paly. The AI here borders on perdictalbe to dumb. Sword fighting 
 fells disjointed and dosent really follow your motions. You make a certain motion and your guy 
 wil make a certain move almost like you pressed a button. Ai in sword fighting can be to easey. 
 So sowrd fighting is a let down. But the gun fights are not. It seems Ubisoft got the whole book 
 on Holleywood shoot outs. You got just about everyone. From Hotel, Roof Tops, SPa, Car Wash, Wearhouse 
 and thats just in the start. Of corse the shooting has its let downs. Some times its hard to see 
 whos shoting at you and some times even thoe your undercover you stil lget fierd at even thoe no 
 one is at the sides. Frame raite can drop but not to bad. There are some glitches like I fell though 
 the floor during a sword fight or a guy flew up to the roof even thoe nothing exploded. Leavles 
 are limted and staright forward. if your thinknig about getting red steel ask your self this do 
 i just Wanna blow sh! t up and shoot people for houers on end? if you said yes you'll enjoy it for 
 the rest waite or get Call of Dutey 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: butlerboy145
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 2, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  Red Steel is a game that you must play if you want to carry on playing these types of game becasue 
 the shotting is accurate most times like if you shoot just past his head it will kill him and the 
 sword fighting is ok but the movement of the control is most times of so if you swung your remote 
 to slash left it would most times slash to the left the opposite to your wii control. and there 
 is one bit which is getting on me nerves when you have to hit at least 80% of targets which i think 
 is impossible becasue i just cant figure out how to do it becasue what i think is that you need 
 to get a focus upgrade but i cant seem to do it so if any one reads this and wants to help me out 
 please explain it to me it would help a great deal thanks. oh and get this game !. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nanabasher999
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 2, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  Well, Wernt we all excited a few years ago, Red Steel and the revolutionary Wii Controller left 
 us all stunned and wanting this game to acompany our shelves with our Wii's and Zelda. But upcoming 
 the launch reviewers have had the cheek to 'briskly' over pass Red Steel and ignore all of its 
 potential. The conclusion...?
  Ign and Gamespot both have the next gen consoles with them, and the hype over the PS3, that they 
 so claim, leaves them to write a sloppy and unfinished, unprofessional review of Red Steel, So 
 why am i writing this review? Because more people should know...
  
  Red Steel is a instant Hit from the second your Wii Gleams into the ON mode. Even the title is 
 a nice feeling, you know your infor a treat. Red Steel begins with a rather pacy introduction to 
 the story and as expected a quick dashed Training Level. The basics of Gun and Sword play are sort 
 of dashed into here to clear up the unesscary training to progress the story further, using Gamespot's 
 guidelines
  
  Clunky sword-fighting sequences slapped into the middle of all the shooting; inane story chock-full 
 of painful dialogue and voice acting; numerous noticeable bugs and glitches. 
  
  Clunky, Maybe ON THE FIRST LEVEL, ever heard of a introduction to a game? Ya! Its a new GAME not 
 freaken GTA, which enjoys a repetitive strain to entertain its many pointless visitors. The sword 
 fighting WAS not the main reason i bought this game, but its involvement is something fresh and 
 new, and it does grow on you after you learn some new skills.
  
  The Shooting part however, IS fantastic, Its a amazing peiece of game and is so beautfiul as the 
 scenery Explodes around you as rooftops can smash down onto car roofs and kill your enemies, This 
 game is a fantastic game. I may repeat the word 'fantastic' but it truley is.
  
  THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO REASON FOR YOU NOT TO BUY THIS GAME.
  
  BUGS? Glitches? 
  
  Ahem, 
 but these rarely happen, all i have had so far is a enemy who missed his speech mark and subtitles 
 appeared and no sound. I also got stuck in a box for a while on the bunny slope level trying to 
 climb up a series of boxes and pipes, BUT WHO DOES THAT?
  
  Buy ME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaincoley
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 2, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- 8.0 Red steel has all the making of the new generation of gaming, Sword fights, gun fights, 
 amazingly good graphics (i didn't think that they wre gonna be that good) and it also has a great 
 story line. Graphics-7.0
  they were good, but not that good. i gave this a 8.0 because that it had some minor glitchs like 
 i can run threw people and when you go train at the dojo you can walk away and run threw the girl 
 etc. and the multi-player graphics werent the brightest but there alright.
  
  Sound- 8.0 they were good. not much to say here Value- 7.0
  i think it should of been sold for 
 $39.99 instead of $49.99
  because its all flash but no substance from my eyes. its just like golden eye for the N64 (which 
 is a great game) its just not quite as good as golden eye.
  
  if you buy this game i hope you enjoy it because ive beat the game twice and goin for it one more 
 time. happy playing ~captaincoley~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonamy4ever
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 2, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  Red Steel was the other big launch title for the Wii, and it is oh-so satisfying.
  
  You play as this guy named Scott who is engaged with this eurasian chick with a bad voice actor. 
 She gets kidnapped, and that's you excuse to pick up your gun and start shooting everything you 
 see that moves. The Levels are long and challenging, each one took me about 2-3 hours to complete. 
 I was expecting a little bit more from the graphics then what the final result showed us. But the 
 gameplay, on the other hand, feels GREAT. I dont see what all the top reviwers think is so bad 
 about it. It works well, it feels real, and it's fun. Music... wow... I love it, Red Steel offers 
 some of the best music I've ever heard in a Video Game (other than metriod prime) . The soundtrack 
 is a good collection of J-Pop misxed with your classic ancient Chinese sounding drum line. Ok, 
 this game is awsome, but of course, there are a few flaws. For one, each time I kill someone, their 
 body twitches nonstop. The AI can be a little funky at times, for instance, at one point in the 
 middle of a level, some guy dropped his gun and held his arms out, then stopped moving.
  
  ANYWAYS, Red Steel is one of the best launch titles out there for the Wii, and with few flaws, 
 I want more FPS's from Ubisoft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeldafreak666
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  So
  If you just bought a wii and are looking for some type of fun and new experience buy this game.
 
  I did not like the looks of it but after i bought it it is a fun ass game except for the bad voice 
 acting and horrible cut scenes.
  It is very staisfying to shoot people and feel the rumble in the controler as you aim up and let 
 the bullets rip.
  It actual feels quite real? maybe?
  But if you are one of thoose people that wants a fun shooter for the wii,
  go buy this NOW!!!!!!
 
  IF you just want to sit on your ass and think of wether or not to get this game than hop of your 
 tooshie and go to walkmarty and buy it  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: element3435
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 31, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Addicting! And yet so realistic. People are saying, the only wii fps is call of duty 3. no. this 
 isnt nearly the same idea and concept of COD3. you cant even compare them. people need to actually 
 try the game, not look at the menu. try beating the first mission. its a really good game. not 
 only is it guns, it is samuari sword battles too. this game is so much like real life, random gangsters 
 challenging you to a fight with a bat, i love it. this game is WELL worth the 50 dollars, it will 
 not let you down! if you like fps so much, get both of these. this is not a biased dicision though, 
 i have COD and Red Steel! This does not deserve a 5.5! Gamespot, make some sense!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmilden
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 31, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel is the first FPS for the Nintendo Wii. If the quality of the graphics or the Wii were 
 just a bit higher the experience would of been more immersive. The point and click game play makes 
 it the FPS feel new again using the motion sensitive Wii remote. It takes a bit of time to get 
 used to but soon enough you have superior gun control in no time.
  
  Sword fighting will take a bit more time to master and requires some stamina to kill your enemies 
 quickly. Much like HALO simple hideout when you are taking on a lot of fire to recharge to avoid 
 getting killed during the game. Sword fighting required timely blocking with the Nunchuck.
  
  All and all this is a pretty fun game but I am going to put a recommend to rent the game before 
 you buy. If you want the FPS for Nintendo get Call of Duty 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redalert9r9r
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 31, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  gamespot counted off points on this game for bugs, glitches, sluggish frame rate, and overall the 
 rushed feel of the game. there are some aspects of their harsh rating that i can agree with. there 
 are numerous notisible glitches such as when you kill an enemy he will slump to the floor like 
 a human meet puppet. more often than not, the fallen foe will fall to a position where his legs 
 or arms will do nonstop twiches which really takes away from the feal that you REALLY just riddled 
 your target with bullets. another aspect that i can agree with is the rushed feal that the game 
 put out. it did feal that Ubisoft REALLY wanted to get this game out as a launch title, so they 
 really rushed the production of the game. the colors that Ubisoft used on most of the levels are 
 verry bland, but dosent affect anything in the long run. another thing is the fact that ri ght 
 when it gets really good and you just learned all these cool moves like time stop and sword combos, 
 it ends abruptly. it is an 8-10 hour expeirence. the whole thing is a really enjoyable experience. 
 you move the wii remote around to aim and the trigger button (B button) to fire your current weapon. 
 a swing of the nunchuck attachment (required for the game) is used to interact with objects, press 
 buttons, reload your gun, etc. you can go into a zooming mode with the A button and move the remote 
 slowly forward and backward to zoom in and out. when you learn time stop, you can hold down the 
 A button and rapidly move the remote forward to stop time for a short peiroud of time in which 
 you can kill multiple enemys or shoot the gun out of their hands, forcing them to surrender. most 
 of the game is taken up by the running and gunning, but every 20 minutes or so, there will be an 
 enemy with a sord and instead of just nailing him with your handy uzi, you are forced to take out 
 your katana and do battle until your opponent looses by running out of life or breakes his blade. 
 you then have the choice to put away your blade and spair his life, or dispatch him by a final 
 swing of your sword. the story line in Redsteel starts out with you meating your fiance's dad at 
 a restraunt and asking him if you can marry his daughter, before you can sit down to your seet, 
 one of the waiters randomly pulles out an uzi and starts mowing people down. you are forced to 
 run with your fiance and her fauther throu the restraunt, you find a gun and quickley kill sevral 
 guys. overall the storyline is enjoyable and the action and new charactors keep comming. some of 
 the levels are really enjoyable like one where you are forced a random set of games and there are 
 men dressed as these anime girls with pink dresses and everything. i have replayed this level about 
 30 times and it never gets old, so the replay value is pretty good, there are about 15 or 20 diffrent 
 levels that are pretty fun to replay as many times as you feel fit. over all i can safley recomend 
 this game to anyone who just loves an FPS with a good story behind it. i cant say its worth its 
 $50 price tag, but just wait for the price to go down or buy a used one and i can almost garontee 
 that you will be satisfyed with you purchace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nofriendo1
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  Red Steel for the Wii is not just another shooter
  Dec 31 '06
  
  Author's Product Rating
  Product Rating: 5.0
  
  Pros
  Great use of the Wiimote controls.
 
  
  Cons
  If your not into first person shooters then this game is probably not for you.
  
  The Bottom Line
  While Red Steel is a fun game for the Wii and makes great use of the Wiimote 
 it's not for everyone. Rent before you buy.
  
  Full Review
  Red Steel for the Nintendo Wii is an excellent game if you enjoy first person shooters. The controls 
 are nothing like any other gaming system out there. Not only does the player have to shoot wave 
 after wave of yakuza, by aiming with your wiimote, but he also has to master sword techniques. 
 By making slashing motions through the air with your wiimote when equipped with the sword as you 
 face off against katana wielding foes, there are several sword techniques to learn.
  Graphically the game can't compare to XBOX 360 or the PS3 but it's still very good looking. I'm 
 still hooked on my gamecube so I may be a little bias. The AI is fairly descent, sneaking up on 
 the player and taking cover when shot at but this is pretty standard in most games nowadays. The 
 sound is very good in the game. Great music mixed with realistic sound effects like gunshots and 
 swords clanging when they strike together and you get sounds coming from the speaker in the wiimote.
 
  While this game is quite enjoyable it's the Wii controls that really sell the game. Without it 
 Red Steel would be just another dull first person shooter and I doubt that it would do well if 
 it were somehow remade for another system with just a simple push the button to shoot controls. 
 Definitely worth checking out if you have a Wii but perhaps try to rent it first if your not into 
 first person shooters.
  
  written by nofriendo
  
  Recommended:
  Yes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dirikitaun
Rating: 5.6
Date: Dec 31, 2006 7:01 am PT
Review:  Probably, the most expected game aside from Zelda TP by the time of the Wii launch date was Red 
 Steel. It had a good story, it seemed to be the game that best exemplified the possibilities of 
 the wii mote and it has been created by one of the companies that ,in the latest years, has provided 
 gamers with real works of art in the gamming industry. So, many people by not to say everyone who 
 wanted to buy a Wii were sure that this FPS was to be the first on that kind on the new console... 
 but from the excitement and amussement showed on the past E3, when we got the game one of the fisrt 
 things that came to our head was: What the hell have they been doing this 5 months??????
  
  The graphics are not diferent form the beta version sowed at E3, control is quite chaotic and not 
 easy to control at th E3 demo, there are lots of bugs and glithces in many parts of the game ( 
 in fact one of the few but biggest defects that ubisoft got is that all its games have a collection 
 of small bugs that reduce the game experience quiet a lot, so this last poimt was a bit expectable, 
 but not with so much and notoriuous bugs) .
  
  So the result is a game that it looks like they stopped working on it wheb they pressented it a 
 t the E3, and the buyer can't avoid to feel himself... robbed. When you see the graphics of Zelda 
 TP, or the incoming Metroid Prime III, Splinter Cell and others you know the wii can do it a lot 
 better. Ubisoft paris might thought that when the people was so impressed by the controls, they 
 could stop working or perfecting them. The problem is that the control is unprecisse, especially 
 the sword part. Its quite hard, not to say impossible, to perform a special movement. And the shooting 
 part seems to be afceted by graphic failliures (missing textures) , clumsy controls (if you stop 
 pointing the screen even for one second the character goes mad and starts to turn around itslef 
 like a puppy dog) , and lots of IA bugs ( you got to be in a precisse spot to start a sword fight 
 or to make someone talk you to start or to continue a mission) .
  
  If Ubisoft is trully preparing a sequel of this game, a few pieces of advice: -Graphics: We know 
 thet the graphics on this console are not its main point, but seeing what other companies have 
 done with their games, if it wasnt for the way you play the game I woundlnt tell the diference 
 betwen a GC version and a Wii version of this game. It would be even bad in the Gamecube becousse 
 of those missing textures and awfull physsic of the objects. Man this graphics semm to have been 
 made by a group of amateurs! -Control: Shotting part is not that bad, its quite good except for 
 that failliure when you stop aimming at the screen. But the sword fight... imporve it please as 
 it was one of the big promisses in this game that turned over, like many others, in one of the 
 greatest deceptions. -IA: Its not that hard, just take example of other games, and please: BETA 
 TESTING, &amp; DEBUGGING. I cant explain why in 5 minths nooone has noted all this failliures in 
 the game. Surelly the big great to Ubisoft is to make a good testing and Debuging department yet. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fleerxo
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 30, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel is the second highest selling of Wii games, last I heard. By playing this game, I can 
 see why. I was skeptical from the 5 rating review on how good it'd be, but overall it isn't bad 
 and definitely worth picking up and playing! First off let's talk about the graphics of this game. 
 The graphics are fantastic. The character models could use some work, but the scenery and environment 
 is super. I love the fire explosions of the game, particles, and also the fishtanks that you can 
 shoot. When the fishtank is busted, all the water and fish fall out of it, which I found a liking 
 to. The grahics are overall very nice and I was pretty impressed with this aspect of the game.
 
  
  Now, the controls. At first, I thought it was difficult. Turning was the most difficult for me, 
 but I got better with the more I tried it. Once you get to playing it and get used to it, the controls 
 become much easier. For me, it was the first game I played with the Wii, so the controls might 
 have seemed difficult for me just because I had never played with the Wii before and it was all 
 'new' to me. It took a little bit of getting used to but the game is very fun and I'm glad it's 
 on the Wii. I hope the same kind of fighting techniques in Red Steel are used for future games 
 on the Wii. The fighting was very fun. The only thing I did not like in fighting is that there 
 is no blood anywhere. No blood? Not at all. It keeps the rating to a Teen, but I was expecting 
 something more realistic to go with this particular game. Still, the fact that there's no blood 
 shouldn't bother anyone much. You'll be enjoying the fighting too much to notice, anyway. Plus, 
 you dont really have to kill your enemy, you can force him to surrender, which is awesome. The 
 game seems to focus on defeating the enemy rather than slaughtering him, which is another thing 
 I like about this game. Also, you can't use a gun in swordfights, which isnt that big of deal. 
 Now, the story. I'm a huge sucker for stories in games, I think a good story is one of the most 
 important elements of a game. I wasn't expecting much of a story when I started the game, and I 
 ended up liking it. Maybe it's because I wasn't expecting a story at all, but it provided a decent 
 one at least which suited me fine. This game surprisingly has voice acting, and it wasn't that 
 bad, either. The soundtrack sounded best, it had a pretty good orchestra. I like to play games 
 with other people, and the multiplayer portion of Red Steel wasnt bad either. I prefer playing 
 games with just one person instead of four. I have, however, seen Red Steel's 4 person split screen. 
 I'm not a huge fan of the split screen. When a split screen is just divided in half like on the 
 Warriors, I'm fine with it. I think the multiplater would have been a LOT better if it were online, 
 so many people would be playing this game against each other. This is an exciting game that you'll 
 enjoy once you get the hang of it. Pick it up from the store or at least rent it first, it's worth 
 a playthrough. Don't forget to join the Dojo of Pain community with promotion and fans! http://www. dojoofpain. com/redsteel/? friend=m9nRlE 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walkerctranger
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  Well let me start by saying that the game is truely alot of fun, and the controls, I thought to 
 work very well, but some people might think for them to be to hard to handle, and this game is 
 so full of glitched it makes me want to spit, you gun jumps from one spot to another instantly, 
 and can get annoying, but rarely gets in the way of you shooting anyone, and the lack of blood 
 makes it seem so unrealistic, and when redsteel 2 comes out, they need to completly rework the 
 sword fighting, they need to give it a much better flow, but one thing that was really cool was 
 the music, very catchy and cool, so in conclusion, this game was good , and alot of fun, bt could 
 have been so much better but i will give it slack for being a launch game using this new controller. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miami_4_Ever
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 30, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  I own 7 games on the Nintendo Wii at this particular moment and I would have to say that Red Steel 
 is one of my favourite Wii games. The controls take some getting used to as I am still having trouble 
 getting to grips with even moving around. I have completed around 7 levels and have a good knowledge 
 of what you can do on this game. One of the best features is everything and anything that you shoot 
 WILL get damaged and you can therefore visually see the results. For example, when you shoot vehicles, 
 after several well aimed shots the vehicle will violently explode and any living organisms within 
 a few yards will be incinerated in the inferno of flames. Thats another thing, the explosions are 
 very realistic and the shots your enemies take are also realistic. One more thing, if you love 
 samurai type fighting, buy this game as it contains at least one sowrd fight in every level which 
 start from the basics up to master level fighting. There many diferent things you can unlock like 
 sword katas and new guns as you progress through the array of exciting levels.
  
  Red Steel is a clearly underated game and is THE BEST shooter on the Wii at this moment in my experienced 
 opinion. The graphics are superb and look as if they've been taken from the Playstation 3 (that's 
 saying something for Nintendo) . A truly amazing game although the tricky controls let it down for 
 amateur players who have never played shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yayapEX2
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 30, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  Red steel is one heck of a launch title. It defiantly changed my opinion of the Wiimote and nun 
 chuck as a whole. I was certainly hyped up about the game but there were little things that could 
 have been better. Then again the Wii is a fairly new system and developers are now just figuring 
 how to use the technology successfully.
  
  This game is in first person which happens to be my favorite of all genres. You use the Wiimote 
 to aim your gun and fire. What is really neat is that if you tilt the Wiimote to the side the gun 
 on the screen will also tilt accordingly. I would try to shoot around corners by doing that. When 
 youre sword fighting you need to use both the Wiimote and nun chuck. The sword fighting felt a 
 little too simplistic. There wasnt much variety as to what you could do. As a whole its very 
 fun fighting the enemies. You get a great feeling that you are playing one of the first games of 
 its kind. I can see that in the future there are going to be games copying the same formula as 
 Red Steel. You can think of this game as being the back bone for Wii shooters to come. Will it 
 take time to learn how to play this game? Yes, since no other gaming console has the same control 
 scheme as this game, most people are probably going to have ore arms after extensive playing. The 
 learning curve is very steep and people who are too dedicated to gaming will probably give up. 
 The graphics in this game are good in some areas and not as great in others. I think there could 
 have been a little more detail put into the character models; to me they looked a little plain 
 and generic. But the lighting effects are what really shine. The explosions are so pleasant to 
 look at and really make you fell like you really give you a sense of accomplishment. Again like 
 the graphics, sound is better in some locations and not so great in others. The voice acting didnt 
 seem to really be as effective as some games try to do. It felt like the voice actors werent really 
 making themselves one with the character they were playing. The sound effects are fine and seem 
 to be on time to what its affecting; its not delayed or anything. The gun shots sound very authentic 
 and I was very pleased with that.
  
  The multiplayer isnt so bad but it stinks to play split screen. You can see what you enemy is 
 up to and doesnt allow you to sneak around if you want. It would be so much better to play this 
 online because people would be bumping elbows just trying play. I recommend this game to anyone 
 to any Wii owner that has time to learn how to play this game. The casual gamer who is too scared 
 to stand up and actually use his body to play will probably wine and cry saying that the game is 
 to hard and its stupid, but its not and dont be afraid to pick this up.
  
  Join the excitement at the Dojo of Pain and watch tons of exciting videos of fans showing what 
 they have learned from playing Red Steel.
  
  http://www. dojoofpain. com/redsteel/? friend=rx1PHU 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edele_Wilde
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 30, 2006 3:22 am PT
Review:  What is wrong with you people this game is great. If people have trouble with the controls, well 
 we are supposed to be primates with the ability to learn, it's obvious that the evolutiontheory 
 isn't complete. I was dancing my way trough the levels within 5 minutes, it feels so good. Ok, 
 I shouldn't really be reviewing the Wii, so , the game. What is it that it does so wrong? Ya it's 
 corny, it doesn't take itselve very serious, so why do you? I love the B-movie sillyness. Oh, and 
 what bugs? No bugs here, occasionally a clipping problem, yeah that really fills me up with sadness, 
 was it for this the clay grew tall blabla.
  
  And what's so unimpressive, I like the levels. Not a room looks the same, a lot can be shot to 
 bits, yeah absolutily terrible indeed. Even the graphics look good, it won't shame your 360 but 
 we knew that already didn't we.
  
  Basicly, what I am trying to say here, you suck, Red Steel doesn't.
  
  end of rant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantoma22
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 29, 2006 11:16 pm PT
Review:  Don't have much to say, but for it being a launch it can look better, but I can careless. I like 
 the way it feels, it is great at times, but can be annoying. A. I. of the enemies is great most 
 of the time. When it comes to sword fights though, they mostly repeat the same moves over and over. 
 It may not be the same motion, but they do repeat the same type over and over. (For example, one 
 does 3 light hits, then a heavy.) Other then this, great title to pick up to go along with the 
 Wii, game is about 6-8 hours long. There are many checkpoints kinda like Halo, and you do die alot. 
 :p Learning curve took me like 15 minutes once I learned all the basic moves. For some it may take 
 longer. It does have multi-player, but no online, haven't experienced it yet, but I'm positive 
 you will need a big T. V for 4 players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steff3121
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel is the 1st independent FPS for the Wii (Call of Duty 3 is on other consoles) , and Ubisoft 
 impresses us again with this one. The concept is solid; pit a gaijin (is that spelt right? oh well...) , 
 whose fiance was captured by a yakuza gang after her father's special katana against said yakuza 
 gang and kill them, with swords and guns. With the Wii, the controls would seem appropriate. So, 
 what went wrong?
  
  In the game, the story is fueled by manga-esque sequences, no actual cutscenes between levels. 
 Think MGS Portable Ops, with more color. Anyway, the story is threadbare, sufficient enough to 
 keep you going from one fight to the next. However, the fighting is pretty fun. The shooting mechanics 
 work well, and there is a generous auto-lock feature to help adjust to it. The sword fights are 
 fun, too, until you get to a point where the game misreads your swings, and thus, does not attack 
 an enemy. For instance, I had just caused a knock-back-parry, and my enemy was wide open. Instead 
 of reading my attack, the game thought I was attempting to parry, and did so. I lost my oppurtunity 
 to attack. The shooting has problems of its own, to the point where your callibration between Wiimote 
 and game is no longer existent, and your gun is dragged across the screen. With time, these issues 
 could have been worked out.
  
  That is a real shame, too, because the game had great graphics, particuarly on the key characters. 
 The guns look all right, and some of the areas (such as Oroki's dojo) look fantastic. The motions 
 are fluid (when not glitching out on you) , and it all fits.
  
  The music is the type you would expect from a tense thriller shooter. There is some Japanese music 
 splattered here and there, and it is pretty well done. The sound effects are nothing special, as 
 most are just guns firing.
  
  All in all, this is just another game that can be classified as launch-quality , and is memorable 
 not for the fights, but for the frustration in winning them. Check this game out once, and then 
 set it aside. Better things will come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fredrancour
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel's biggest problem is it's not finished. Bugs are present in the AI, aiming, and swordfighting. 
 and the graphical polish varies wildly, though it tends to lean towards the ugly.
  
  The graphics start out poor, then briefly become some of the wii's best for a brief area upon arriving 
 in Japan about a quarter of the way into the story. after that, they vary wildly. the lighting 
 effects are nice, but they tend to be overused to compensate for lackluster visuals in several 
 areas. frame-rate drops are rare but pronounced. Enemies twitch weirdly when dead and occasionally 
 float. How you feel about the aiming is crucial to your enjoyment of this game. rent/borrow the 
 game, and give it a try for a level or two. if you can't adjust to the controls by then, the game 
 isn't worth it. I adjusted, and found the aiming to be fairly satisfying. An occasional aiming 
 bug on left turns was annoying.
  
  I found swordplay to be pretty good. tracking for upward swings was poor, but other than that, 
 it was a nice gameplay addition.
  
  AI tends to be bad. Enemies hide behind/ near explosives and are oblivious to you when you duck 
 out of sight and rush at them behind cover. once they have a piece of cover, they usually stay 
 and make no effort to outmaneuver you. However, I once found myself outflanked by the AI after 
 I assumed it was going to be its usual stupid self. also, if a better piece of cover becomes available 
 after you kill an enemy, other enemies will try to take it. Enemies caught alone will retreat to 
 get backup in many situations.
  
  level design, for the most part, is standard FPS fare, with one exception that i won't spoil (all 
 i'll say is it was hands-down my favorite level) .
  
  The orchestral soundtrack by Tom Salta is diverse and pleasant. However, the voice acting was merely 
 passable.
  
  The respect system, where you recieve points for sparing enemies, served no purpose, as far as 
 I could tell.
  
  The campaign is short, as it is for most shooters. grades are given, so completion addicts will 
 be drawn into retrying things (grades are probably where respect points come in, but i'm not sure) . 
 Multiplayer is difficult. 2-4players, splitscreen only. Aiming is harder due to your smaller screen 
 space. Ubisoft recently put out a want ad for a programmer w/ online gameplay experience for a 
 continuation of the Red Steel project on an undefined system  
 ) . if this turns out to be the online play mod speculated about prior to the Wii's release, then 
 the game's value will go up.
  
  Since Red Steel's biggest problem is it's not finished, it shows some promise for a sequel (the 
 more likely application of the aforementioned classified ad) . I am cautiously hopeful for a sequel. 
 online play and a few more months of dev time to iron out the bugs/ even out graphics would have 
 made this game a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havraha
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 13, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Ubisoft hearts Wii. Dedicating more titles to Nintendo's new console than even Nintendo has, Ubisoft 
 was bound to make some kind of a profit. They did on me, as well as a **** of other gamers, despite 
 Gamespot and IGN's vendetta against the game. It's still the second most popular launch title on 
 Wii, as well as being the first REVEALED Wii title. But why is Red Steel simultaneously loved by 
 gamers and hated by reviewers?
  
  It's probably due to expectations. The story of Red Steel is kind of forced upon itself by what 
 the developers wanted -- a shooter with swords. What better place to set it, then, than the Japanese 
 Yakuza mafia! You play as some average joe named Scott (an average scott, I guess) who has no real 
 past to him other than the opening scene hinting to your profession being that of a bodyguard for 
 your NOW fiance, Miyu, who happens to be the daughter of a wealthy business man named Sato. The 
 game doesn't take long at all before Sato is shot, Miyu is abducted, an you are the guy expected 
 to hunt her down. Turns out Sato's the leader of a yakuza clan, and a rival yakuza wants his ceremonial 
 sword that signifies that Sato is the leader. As Sato dies, he gives the sword to you, and instructs 
 you to save his daughter.
  
  And though I admit I made that sound really cool, in all honesty the game's plot sucks in it's 
 depth. I mean, hell, its the same damn plot as Donkey Kong. Nonetheless, you'll see a lot of different 
 locations and characters as you try and track down Miyu, which gives the game an epic feel, despite 
 the fact that there's not really any epic plot.
  
  Red Steel's graphics are pretty nice. In some cases the environments are so well rendered that 
 you could easily pass them off as an XBOX 360 game ... in other cases, you want to gag. Although 
 it's clear that this isn't the extent of the Wii's capabilities, there are a mix of lighting, liquid, 
 fire, and particle effects that just wouldn't have been possible on the Gamecube. The character 
 models, on the other hand, aren't so impressive. None of them look very believable ... though the 
 developers say they were going for a specific artistic style The only style I see on the characters 
 is the style of pixelated textures, and an unusual white outline around each person. If that wasn't 
 enough, the amount of violence you're actually able to commit has been toned down to a fault -- 
 as finishing off people in sword fights only allows you to punch them out , and ... there's absolutely 
 no blood in the game whatsoever, whether you shoot people or cut them. It's a great way to keep 
 the game rated T for teen, and hence get more mothers allowing their kids to buy it, but then again 
 ... that makes the title of RED STEEL kind of misleading, doesn't it?
  
  The voice acting in the game is so-so. At least there IS voice acting, unlike Zelda, but it's generally 
 give or take. The best actor in the game is the woman who plays Miyu, who genuinely sounds distressed 
 over being kidnapped. Asian guys sound asian, though some more than others, and probably the biggest 
 let down in the game is the voice acting of the gangstas , who although black, work in a custom 
 car shop, and carry pistols like any other good gangsta would ... they're voice actors are whiter 
 than me after reading Star Trek fanfiction. It's really quite laughable, as everything they say 
 is completely unbelievable.
  
  Most people probably thought Red Steel would be like a console translation of a computer shooter 
 game with a mouse. This is simply not so. Red Steel is more like taking a railed arcade light gun 
 game, de-railing it, and giving you the ability to walk around at your own free will. The result? 
 Aiming and shooting is fantastically fun. Actually walking around and turning on the other hand? 
 Not so simple. It takes a bit of getting use to, as you can actually increase the rate of which 
 you turn by pressing on the analog stick in the opposite direction, but most people don't figure 
 this out, so they give the game a bad score for its bad controls (yeah, I'm looking at you Gamespot 
 and IGN) . Happily, this is balanced by Red Steel's difficulty. Scott can die pretty quickly in 
 about three or four consecutive shots, so you'll have to dive for cover to survive very long, which 
 means you won't be doing much running-and-gunning. And ... therefor, less turning.
  
  Presentation is sorely lacking. You'll occasionally be treated to cutscenes using the in-game engine, 
 but for the most part ... the story is told using comic-book style still pictures, which is definitely 
 just an excuse to try and take their concept art and get all the mileage they can out of it.
  
  The game makes good use of the remote, though some actions like zoom are a bit harder to pull 
 off than one might expect. The AI, which was originally being hailed by the developers as one of 
 the games best features, ends up being its worst. The AI is simply dumb, and though it mimics some 
 real life elements like hiding and running away, it's fundamentally flawed by various enemies not 
 only randomly forgetting where you are, but generally forgetting what they're even supposed to 
 be doing, which ... results in them just standing around waiting to be killed. The controls will 
 occasionally glitch out (though this is primarily a user-fault, and is quickly correctable) , and 
 I myself witnessed one enemy float through the ceiling. So the game has it's hefty share of glitches, 
 and though distracting, they don't generally hinder gameplay enough to make the game horrible. 
 Though you'll be blessed if you can play through the game without finding some of them.
  
  Red Steel's probably single best quality is its destructible environments. EVERYTHING breaks apart 
 in some way, so posts, walls, chairs, cars, boxes, things that would generally be obstacles can 
 be blown away with grenades or sawed through with machine gun fire, which is just so much a fantastic 
 touch that it's Red Steel's one shining moment, and all FPS's should be this destructible.
  
  The swordplay elements are odd. They're pretty much ALWAYS one on one, and there is no option 
 of using a gun during them. Your character will be forced into locked swordplay, which is surprisingly 
 challenging. They're an excellent short distraction from the main shooting elements of the game, 
 and you'll generally look forward to them, but if you become all defense and don't let yourself 
 have fun with these fights, you'll grow to hate them.
  
  Red Steel has a four player split-screen mode, which consists of your basic deathmatch mode along 
 with a marked-man game where a voice will come through the remote speaker, declaring one of you 
 the target who has to stay alive while being hunted. It's quite the nice multiplayer shooter game, 
 which Call of Duty 3 (Wii's other FPS launch title) simply can't offer you. But the lack of online 
 play or LAN will keep it tied down to a small party game.
  
  All and all, Red Steel is a solid first person shooter that's unlike anything else out there, and 
 despite its presentation faults and bugs, is a game you'll grow addicted to in what it does offer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaMc34
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 29, 2006 12:32 am PT
Review:  Low expectations were exceeded by this game. Yes the AI in the game sucks, or is too good, but 
 the game is fun, plain and simple. The controls take a little getting used to, but they are great 
 once you use them for a while. Opening up doors and reloading with the nunchuk is great. Shooting/aiming 
 works well with the wiimote. The sword fights were a bit of a letdown, but they get better once 
 you learn various sword skills. The graphics are not next-gen but Wii never said it would have 
 that. They are great for the system. The sound/music is great. Shooting sounds are real and sword 
 sounds are too. Music fits the game well.
  
  I rented the game and in 6+ hours playing I still did not come close to passing the game. It is 
 long. The multiplayer is basic but it gets the job done. I had fun killing my friends.
  
  Give this game a shot and you should not be disappointed. I bet when Red Steel 2 comes out that 
 it will be even better than this good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GunslingerMan
Rating: 6.1
Date: Dec 28, 2006 8:54 pm PT
Review:  For many Red steel was the first game they saw for the wii, and if anything the target pics really 
 made us believe that this game was really going to be the wii's Killer App but fastfoward month's 
 later and Red steel is finally here, and it's a floptard . In Red steel you play as Scott, after 
 your having dinner with your fiance, and she is captured by the Yakuza it's your duty to save her 
 ! Too be honest the story is lame as it resembles many Hollywood movies, and never seems to go 
 anywhere . You will quickly be shown to a tutorial on how to move aim and so on, it seems great 
 at first until the action starts rolling in the game and you will realize how extremely difficult 
 it is to aim with this game . You might get better at it, but the problems won't still go away 
 . The game is fun, as it feels unlike any other fps youv'e played before, but fustrating to say 
 the least . It's also brought down by the fact that it follows the terrible fps forumla of brining 
 waves and waves of bad guys at you without any reason to do so .
  
  The biggest thing going for Red steel is the sword fighting . With the wiimote and nunchuck coming 
 to play Red steel feels like any other thing out there on any console, it's fun and it plays a 
 big roll on how long you will keep playing the single player . However it's kind of akward the 
 fact that the game doesn't let you either sword fight in the multi-player, and is pretty linear 
 cause the game chooses when you have to do the sword fighting, like seriously why can't I just 
 use my uzi and be done with it ?
  
  Red steel looks awful, far from those target videos that got us hyped up about it in the beggning 
 . The textures are really ps2 type textures, it's buggy, it has frame rate problems, and it's a 
 jaggfest . Although it really does looks really good in places like the dojo, makes you think that 
 maybe the devs were lazy . It's disappointing cause a game for the wii shouldn't look worse than 
 ps2 games . To it's credit the enviournments are highly destructible Where it does shine the most 
 is in it's audio . Although mediocre voice acting, the music is outstanding and will keep you on 
 your feet all the way through the game . Also the Sound design is awsome . Red steel's single-player 
 is a bit short . It took me around 8 hours to finish which isn't too long ... You would expect 
 the multi-player to be great in Red steel, but unfortunately it's where the game really drops the 
 ball . It's a boring and dull multi-player game with only 4 levels on it, and unless you got 4 
 wiimotes it's best multi-player mode is pretty useless . Overall : Red steel isn't a good launch 
 title, skip it and buy a better fps for your wii Call of duty 3 cause there is nothing really redeeming 
 about Red steel at all . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CastlevaniaFan
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 28, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Don't believe the prelaunch hype, or the postlaunch ubisoft bashing. While not a bad game, and 
 not great game either- Red Steel is a remake of old-school fps gameplay. Instead of trying to be 
 an innovative new-years baby like all new fps games, Red Steel is more like an old person with 
 plastic surgery. Its fun, interactive, and has swords and funny japanese accents. Underneath all 
 of the wii Red Steel is just a cool old game that tries to be cool. From playing Red Steel I noticed 
 that the entire game is supposed to be like a cheesy flash animation about a cheesy yakuza movie 
 plot. (don't worry, it's on PURPOSE... I hope) If you can get past the all of the cheesy gumbo and 
 everything that comes with it, you will be held back by some other problems. Enemies sometimes 
 glitch out and shoot way up into the air. If you like games such as farcry, old-school james bond, 
 and third-party shoot-um-up fps, you'll get a kick out of Red Steel. If you like Halo 2, Doom 3, 
 or other innovative and new fps games, stay away. stay far away. stay so far away that your legs 
 break while running and you slowly bleed to death while your wounds get infected and vultures clean 
 your bones.. or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXEnvyOurLoveXx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 28, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  While Red Steel is not the killer ap that everyone was hoping for, it is still a great game to 
 play and a great introduction and start to what FPS's could be like on the Wii. It's main problem 
 is that its flaws are very noticeable, but if your a gamer willing to forgive a few flaws, it will 
 not make a difference!
  
  The game is a blast to go through, that is once you get used to the controls. There is a steep 
 learning curve, and I'm sure the developers felt a learning curve too, considering the wiimote 
 should have been put to much better use. Still, the enemies are fun to fight, and a lot of the 
 added game mechanics make for a fun game.
  
  The graphics are not the best, but the criticism they get is a little off. The lighting effects 
 are very appealing, and things animate pretty well. Explosions, etc make for one pretty good looking 
 game!
  
  The sound is overall decent. The voice acting is a little bland though. Sound effects are fine, 
 but I still expected more, as usually sound is never a problem in games for me.
  
  There is multilayer support, which is good if you have a lot of friends, but its really not anything 
 special. If you can forgive some of these notable flaws you feel find a really engaging game with 
 some excellent ideas, a great world, and a fine run through. I look forward to a sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samakar
Rating: 5.7
Date: Dec 28, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  Well, I've gotten about half-way through the game, and that's all I need for a generally good review 
 of the game. So far, from what I can tell you, the game isn't a ZOMFG THIS IS THE GREATEST GAME 
 EVARRRR!!!11 type of game, it's more of a meh, it's there type of game. With clunky controls and 
 a mundane story line, it's hard to get into the dry beginning.
  
  The gun controls are a pain at times, with your aim getting stuck in corners and the aim being 
 thrown about at times. I remember at one point, I was aiming through the scope of my sniper rifle, 
 and just as I was about to shoot him, the aim shot to the side and then back onto my target, making 
 the shot very frustrating. At times, when I move around corners, as I said earlier, the aim will 
 decide to stick itself into the top right or bottom left part of the screen and just be annoying 
 for a while.
  
  Even after three hours of gameplay, the controls are hard to master and your stuck throwing grenades 
 into walls where you don't want them to go, and shooting at things you really don't want to shoot 
 at.
  
  The sword-play is slow and difficult at times, such as doing moves such as The Hammer , forcing 
 you to scrunch your face in frustration as you swing the Wiimote and Nunchuck around like a caveman 
 trying to get a computer to work. The best thing to do, that I had found, was just switch the sword 
 fighting sensitivity to low and just twirl my right hand around until I hit the bastard and hoped 
 for the best.
  
  The sound isn't bad, although some of the voice acting is in rotten taste. The music fits the game 
 and has a nice sound to it, and it is kind of cool to hear the sound of your reloading going on 
 in your Wiimote, or the sound of a cell phone ringtone going off in your Wiimote.
  
  All in all, if you're willing to give it a try, go for it, but don't expect a Gears of War, or 
 a Halo for that matter.
  
  -Samakar
  Long live Xen of Onslaught! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crow114
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 8/10
  The Graphics in this gme are not as high end as some are used to with the PS3 and the Xbox 360 
 but for a console that does not push graphics this game pushes and look genuinely beautiful.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  The sounds in this game are great but occasionally some of the witty banter 
 from the AI will have you saying The next person who calls me a Gaijin is gettin a face full of 
 lead . But the gunshots and swordfights sound great especially up close do to the Wii-mote speaker.
 
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  this game makes great use of the motion sensing capabilities of the wii and after you get past 
 the learning curve immerses you as you actually try to move your body to avoid the shot. Also the 
 slowmo shot makes for interesting situations where you can take out a group of enemies with one 
 well placed shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_bad_byron
Rating: 3.3
Date: Dec 27, 2006 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel 3.3/10 A glitched-up mess. Anyone who says this is a well-crafted game does not deserve 
 to play games. It gets an extra point than Raving Rabbids because at least you can laugh at the 
 poor quality of this game. lol!
  No-Joke, third room I entered in this game, there was an enemy walking on the walls, and when I 
 got underneath him, he was standing on the roof. Gravity does not apply to the Yakuza apparently... 
 Gameplay 4/10 How good can gameplay in a so-called next-gen game be when the A. I. is worse than 
 a dead-dog? p. s: Glitch-fest
  Graphics 5/10 Glitchyness of the graphics keeps this from being a little higher
  Sound 4/10 I'm 
 Unimpressed. Poor Voice-Acting. 'ooh! Point to that fish there!'
  Value 2/10 I could never see much value in a poor game
  Tilt 2/10 It gets a point for being a 
 game. The next is for multiplayer support.
  
  3.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torrent_of_fire
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 27, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Okay, if by some off chance you ignored the review here at Gamespot, good job. These guys are a 
 hack-job. Most of the harsh reviews they give and score deprevations are for stupid reasons. Reasons 
 like why Zelda got an 8.8. There is no reason for it. It's just a let's be different review. And 
 though all reviewers seem to have one game they love to hate on the Wii, no matter which reviewer 
 you're reading up on, I'm here to let you all know that they all have absolutely no idea what they're 
 talking about.
  
  Thank you for clicking my review. And thank you for not listening to the 5.5 mediocre review that 
 Gamespot gave Red Steel. The game is definantly not a 5.5. However, it's not all that deserving 
 of anything that can be considered breathtaking it's defiantly not a let-down, a flop, or a dissapointment, 
 by any means.
  
  First thing I would like to talk about is sword motions. 1-to-1 sword motions are impossible. Get 
 used to it. We would need some kind of force-feedback system to push your hand motions away whenever 
 your attacks were blocked or something for that to work, and it would result in more lawsuits than 
 the Wiimote Wrist-strap has (which I personally feel that is a stupid lawsuit, almost as dumb as 
 the McDonald's Hot Coffee lawsuit.... Almost.) It's plausible, and they could make it mimic how 
 you hold the sword, but never when attacking.
  
  Now on to the meat.
  
  Red Steel, in the simplest terms, is amazing fun. The real problems come in not from gameplay, 
 but fromall the visuals and physics and things. The still-frame, comicbook style movie clips are 
 decent, but end up making the game seem unfinished. It's an unusual and artistic twist at this 
 time in video games, but one that just simply did not work.
  
  The physics is the next big problem. Right now, no rag-doll physics engine is perfect. You'll always 
 blast some enemy into an awkward position where his leg or arm will twitch around for no reason. 
 It happens in rare occasions in great, awesomely developed games, such as FEAR, But this is just 
 bad. Sometimes it works well, but about 25% of the time (which is a lot, considering you kill a 
 lot of enemies) you'll find dead bodies fidgeting around and twitching, all because of some bad 
 scripting. Again, it just hurts visuals.
  
  The next bad-wrap is the visuals, well, sorta. There are parts of the game (like the Dojo) that 
 are really next-gen quality. Then there are parts of the game that are... Well... Gamecube quality. 
 And for some reason, character models like to skew . During one particular scene, it became very 
 noticable, and ruined the scene for me. The character model would just skew, stretch, or bump slightly, 
 but it was noticable, and it took away from what could've been a remarkable, well-done scene. (Even 
 the voice-acting in that part was great.)
  
  Finally, the last very bad thing is the aiming bug. We all know that the pointer should not jump 
 around wildly, we've seen the pointer work flawlessly in every other game, and it's obvious that 
 it's just some bad scripting. However, I've found that if you turn the game off- then on - it resets 
 this problem. Sometimes that method works, sometimes it doesnt. Either way, it's the only bug that 
 detracts from the gameplay.
  
  Now, all of the bad is out of the way, here's the good news, and fortunately, there's more good 
 news than bad.
  
  The story is well done. Very well done. It really makes me excited to get to part two of Red Steel 
 (we all know that a part two is in development, I hope?) ***Spoler Alert!***
  
  The bad thing about the story is that it stops after the Katana Giri is broken. The underground 
 is at peace, but Tokai is still alive, and even though he promised peace, nothing really came to 
 a definant end. Especially since Tokai was reluctant to reveal the antidote to Miyu for the poision 
 swords.
  
  ***END OF SPOILER***
  
  Now, the voice acting is actually quite remarkable, it's only in gameplay where voice acting is 
 not so great. Give up moron! is not something I'd yell in a firefight. But the Japanese battle 
 cries are slightly better Gaijin! at least makes sense when they spot you. (Gaijin means foreigner) 
 Some of the cutscene voice acting (like Tokai's and the club owner's) is very good, others (like 
 Miyu's) are not so good. Otori-sensei is a great voice actor, as well.
  
  Being that I am a fan of truely memorable games, games that have scenes that I will recall and 
 want to experience again (like we do with movies) . Red Steel has it's very, VERY good moments. 
 And some of the most memorable aren't just firefights, most are actually sword-fights, and a couple 
 are cinematics and story elements.
  
  The story, again, is memorable. It's equivelent to watching a good movie. But there are parts of 
 gameplay where the game itself, and the system behind it shines. I will list a few of them:
  
  ***Possible spoiler alert!*** - My all time favorite scene is the battle with the New-Age Ninja 
 clan's boss outside on the pagota with the rain, right after Tokai escapes from the cemetary. - 
 The sword fight with the club leader, Harry, is a very powerful scene. And he is remarkably difficult. 
 - The first chapter. - Fighting in the burning Dojo. - Any given high-powered, action-oriented 
 firefight
  
  ***END OF POSSIBLE SPOILERS***
  
  The controls are mastered, you will find yourself sparing more lives than killing like you did 
 at the start of the game. and all of the bad is more than made up for with the gameplay and storyline. 
 You will have fun with this game, It got me 8 hours of gameplay to beat, and all of it is memorable, 
 the music is great, and I only wish they had spent more time on finishing touches.
  
  If they had, this game would've easily been a remarkable 9.0 or higher. I can't wait for part two. 
 I highly suggest that any of you out there who haven't played this game, you give it a chance, 
 and if you are only a little bit into the game, you try to at least finish it and reserve your 
 opinions for afterwards. I disliked the game at first, but it really grows on you. It's remarkable, 
 and a great launch title. Deserving much more than a 5.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alljoemama92
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 27, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the best fps i'v ever played the countrals are eaisy i never played the wii till 
 i got it and it was easaiy smimple and fun i'v played 27.0% of the game so far and im hooked the 
 story line is like a cool imported chines action movie with sowrds that was thonly part that kinda 
 anyd me cause they block so dam much but that whould be like that in real life to and ther was 
 one glich i found when you go to the spa and the agent guys came out one gust stod ther with its 
 arems out i shout hime and his torso disaperd and it was just his lower area it was funy he was 
 still shouting me with his gun on his hip it was like i was fightin a$$ymage frome adulit swim 
 that was the only glitch but it was a funy one also the mulity player was asome me and my freinds 
 where lafin cause one was the dino thing and one was the super guy and the were one a team agent 
 me and my other freind ya thers only 4 lvels but there cool one i hate fps and you cant find each 
 othe cause the levals are to dam big and thers a lot of crap in those 4 levels the only downfall 
 is the grafics the look like a ps2 game but hey thats better thane the gamecube but i dont care 
 about grafics i care about game playe and this game has toun of it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick11478
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 27, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  This game did not deserve the low rating of a 5.5.. This is atleast a 8.0... I don't find much 
 wronge with it. Sure it takes a little while to get used to because of the Wii Remote and stuff, 
 but that's no reason for it to be a 5.5 game. I find that game challeging and also a bit user friendly. 
 It's got a great story to it. You can't beat the gameplay. The graphics are amazing for a launch 
 game. This game made me enjoy the gameplay of Wii. It's also getting me used to using the Wii Remote 
 as well. I think Red Steel is worth every penny of the 49.99 price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spongemario
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 27, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel. One of the first FPS games to appear on the Wii system. The Wii Remote just seems absolutely 
 perfect for an FPS game, right? Not to mention, there's swordfights in this game. I love the swordfights, 
 and I don't find too much wrong with them, it's the rest of the game that bugs me.
  It's your basic guy-meets-girl, guy-proposes-to-girl,  
  story. Specifically, why? This rival 
 group appears to want a legendary sword called the Katana Giri, which is a symbol of your fiancee's 
 father's clan. A third of the way in, you're given the Katana Giri and you're set off to rescue 
 your girlfriend. What happens later is a mystery to me.
  I see other reviewers complaining that the graphics don't look very next-gen , but they look fine 
 to me. Okay, so you find yourself shooting the same two or three people per level, but each environment 
 is unique, and when you start getting into the game (especially the awesome Factory level) , you 
 really have to use the environment to save yourself.
  Now it's time for the audio. Ubisoft apparently made custom songs to go with each type of environment, 
 such as a rap at a Los Angeles car garage, or a peaceful mood song at the beach near a factory. 
 It blends well, but unfortunately underheard by the constant swearing of your enemies. I know Ubisoft 
 was going for a more mature audience for this game, but when all of your enemies swear the whole 
 time? Way over the top. Lastly, about the Wii Remote speaker -- nice. You hear things like gunshot 
 blasts, reloading sounds, and a special cell-phone-like feature for one of the multiplayer games.
 
  Speaking of multiplayer, it sucks. Not a ton of people would know how to play Red Steel right 
 now, so players get frusterated at trying to control it. The controls don't entirely feel natural. 
 There's the standard deathmatch, team deathmatch, and a special assassin-like mode where you use 
 the Wii Remote like a cell phone and listen in to who you're supposed to kill. A neat idea, but 
 I think nearby players might also hear it.
  If you're looking for a first-person shooter for your new Wii, just rent Red Steel, or perhaps 
 just stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 10outof10
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  It just looked so cool. Turns out it sucks. You start out with a gun which is to hard to keep still. 
 The camera in Red Steel is very bad. But Hey! I can still have fun with the katanas right! I thought 
 playing with the katanas would be a blast but it turns out it sucks just as much as the guns. Well 
 then again you can choose to kill them or not. That's cool I guess. But the best part of this game 
 is the multiplayer mode. You can choose between characters like Superhero, Magic Girl, and Dinoboy. 
 You will probably have fun with multiplayer If your friends can deel with the horrible camera! 
 It is worth a rent for a party if you have four wiimotes but again 1 player mode is just to bad. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadlyrom
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 27, 2006 3:33 am PT
Review:  I picked up five Wii games on launch day, one of them being Ubisoft's first person shooter Red 
 Steel. Early press reviews and impressions for the game touted great problems with the controls, 
 so when I picked up Red Steel I was expecting a messy control scheme and glitches galore.. boy, 
 was I wrong.
  
  Story: The game takes place in Los Angeles, you take the role of a young man named Scott Monroe 
 who's fianc&eacute; e is kidnapped. It's your traditional kidnapping action movie story with a few 
 twists thrown in. There are many side characters with stories you meet along the way who both help 
 you and ask for your help, mainly different Yakuza groups. This game also features an alternate 
 ending, which I thought was really cool.
  
  Graphics (8/10) : One of the game's main criticisms. Early on in the game, the graphics look of 
 your average X-Box title.. textures don't look very mind-blowing and by the first few levels, most 
 players make up their mind about the graphics being just that -- decent . After the first act, 
 though, something weird happens -- the graphics go from being standard to awesome. As you progress 
 and get to different levels and environments change to more visually appealing ones, the game takes 
 advantage of them. Lighting begins to get better (particularly apparent on shiny tiles and neon 
 lights in city districts during the night) , fire, reflection and vibrant colors really stand out 
 and you notice the game's anti-aliasing really doing it's job. Compared to most 360 titles released 
 up until now, I really feel that this game does hold it's ground in the graphics department. An 
 interesting thing to note, though, is that early screenshots of Red Steel (see Gamespot for images) 
 boast incredibly better detail than what the finished product has -- detailed models, detailed 
 shadows and beautiful beams of light pouring through bullet holes in paper walls. This level of 
 detail continued to be showed in screenshots as late as June of 2006 but did not make it to the 
 finished product.. whether Ubisoft over expected what the Wii hardware and graphics chip could do 
 or fibbed and retouched early screenshots may never be known, but the final product is still great 
 by Wii standards.
  
  Sound (8/10) : The game features a great soundtrack, with tracks ranging from upbeat J-Pop during 
 shootout scenes to more serious and dramatic songs during sword fights and other intense moments. 
 Sound effects were great, the Wii remote's less than stellar speaker being the main problem in 
 quality here.. but after a while of playing, the reload sound coming from the remote compliments 
 the game's attempt to make you feel like you're in the game. I found the voice acting to be fine 
 -- some of it, particularly the Japanese women were very convincing.
  
  Gameplay (10/10) : Red Steel has one difficulty and you are ranked after each level completed. The 
 single player campaign will last roughly 10-13 hours with each level taking anywhere from 20-40 
 minutes to complete if you take your time. AI is smart, fleeing and taking cover behind objects 
 in the same way you can, by flipping over tables with the nunchuck. Midway through the game you 
 get access to your focus ability, which is essentially slow motion and allows you to shoot weapons 
 from enemy hands and make them surrender. The only times you can use your sword are; (1) when directly 
 in front of an enemy to melee them for an auto kill and (2) during certain boss fights when you 
 are forced to put away your guns for sword duels. This is not necessarily a hindrance to gameplay 
 as sword fights increase in difficulty and fun factor as you unlock new sword combos which can 
 be executed by performing different swing combinations. After defeating an enemy in a sword fight, 
 you can kill him or alternatively spare his life for respect points and sometimes game play/storyline 
 tips.
  
  A bit on controls: This game has the most steep learning curve for controls of any console shooter 
 I've ever played (although that could be attributed to this being a Wii launch game) but are extremely 
 rewarding and fun when you master them. It took me two hours to get the controls, after that I 
 was nailing headshots left and right and no longer had problems of unintentionally aiming off screen 
 or my reticule having a mind of it's own. Controls are most easily learned in single player, since 
 multiplayer is fast paced and you won't be taking the time and getting used to aiming as you would 
 against AI in early levels of single player. The most important tip I've given players new to Wii 
 is to rest your arms on your legs when you play, raising your arms only to zoom and during sword 
 fights. By playing this way your aiming is always leveled and will greatly improve your accuracy 
 and turning. As a lefty, I found this game impossible to play left handed as there's no option 
 to switch the model to left handed and it does a number on your brain.
  
  Value (8/10) : While you are ranked after each level and can choose to replay any level you have 
 beaten to improve your rank, it does not appear at the time of writing this review that there are 
 any unlockables when you achieve the highest rank -- so getting a high rank would be solely for 
 bragging rights. Not being able to skip through cutscenes might make you think twice about playing 
 through the game again, too. Only having one difficulty isn't really a problem because the average 
 player probably will die in this game a few times.. it's very balanced, especially since the control 
 scheme is new. The multiplayer (offline only) is very fun, reminiscent of older console shooters 
 like Goldeneye N64 and Timesplitters. Moderate paced action packed with a ton of fun, but only 
 four levels to choose from and no alternate game modes other than deathmatch unless four people 
 are playing.
  
  Tilt (8/10) : Out of the five Wii games I've played and own so far, Red Steel really is the most 
 fun and a must have if you're looking for a dedicated single player experience on the Wii. As a 
 long time PC first person shooter veteran I was really surprised at how well I took a liking to 
 this game and how new and fun the controls were when you get used to them. This game is groundbreaking 
 to the FPS genre and I haven't yet found it boring, which is getting harder and harder to say about 
 console FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 26, 2006 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel is a 1st person shooter for the Nntendo Wii. The story here is you are a bodyguard for 
 a japanese crime kingpin daughted which is also your wife. She is kidnapped during a shootout in 
 a Hotel In california. Gameplay is very hard to learn almost impossible You move the wii remote 
 around to look and use the nunchukc to move forward and backwars. Graphics are amazing for the 
 Ninetdo Wii. Sound is very good as well. Ive yet to fin dany problems with it. The charcter dialouge 
 is always new. The game is 49.99 and is worth it if you love run and gun style games that are very, very 
 hard. The Good: Everything about that game is amazing espically the sword fights
  
  The Bad: Very Hard To Learn To Play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antiman90
Rating: 6.6
Date: Dec 26, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  The first Wii game that got everyone's attention was Red Steel, then Zelda came out of nowhere 
 and stole all of its thunder. Rightfully so, as Twilight Princess is a much better game than Red 
 Steel, which reminds you of a last generation James Bond game with some half baked sword sequences 
 and freehand controls thrown in. Nevertheless, Red Steel manages to stay remotely fun in controlled 
 bursts as each level will take you about 30-45 minutes to complete.
  
  The visuals look like a blurry GameCube game from the early part of its lifecycle. The game all 
 around is just ugly. The characters are all copies of two or three nondistinct gangsters. The game 
 does tell its story through interesting comic-book style cutscenes, but overall the game just looks 
 ugly.
  
  The sound doesn't get much better. It sounds like a crappy GameCube game with the same themes played 
 throughout the entire game. The voices are all annoying, and you get tired of the same stupid grunts 
 and phrases repeated over and over again by the random enemies you fight.
  
  The basic formula for Red Steel is that you have a 30-45 minute level with about 90% shooting and 
 10% sword fighting. This formula will grow old eventually, but the level's length seems just right 
 because it ends right when you get bored. The entire game is anticlimactic and a let down. The 
 sword parts of the game are entirely too easy, in fact its harder to pull off the special moves 
 they try to teach you than simply dodge the enemies attack and then strike. And striking randomly 
 works just as well, the AI doesn't seem to know how to block. After the swordfight you have the 
 option to kill the enemy or let him go. I always let him go out of pitty, it just doesn't seem 
 right killing someone so inferior.
  
  All in all, wait for Red Steel to be $20, then go to the store and consider a purchase. As for 
 right now, it would be an absolute waste to buy this game. Although if you just do one level every 
 now and then it can seem fun, $50 is highway robbery for this game - no question about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joff5555
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 26, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  i started playing this today it was a bit hard but i got use to it the sword fighting was cool 
 the music is very japanese music in some parts some of the levels are easy. the only bad thing 
 about this is the pointing with the gun becuse you got to hold it to the screen all the time but 
 with the sword fight all you do is just swing the wii remote and the nunchuk so if you like first-person 
 shooter fan than buy this game it's super cool. if you are not a fan of a first person-shooter fan 
 than dont but it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tjharwin
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2006 5:03 am PT
Review:  Welcome to the world of first person shooting, where little joysticks and buttons have virtually 
 no affect on your aim. I'm sure you have all played Time Crisis on the PS2 before with the gun, 
 and doesn't it bug you when you can't movie around by yourself? That my friend, is where Red Steel 
 jumps in.
  
  Good points:
  
  -Great maps for fighting
  -A wide range of guns
  -Fun and realistic sword fights
  
  Bad points:
  
  I can't think of many.
  
  The point 
 is that this game rocks. Both storyline and gameplay are great and Ubisoft seem to have made a 
 good impression on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tysse23
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 29, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  You play as a guy named Scott who tries to rescue his fianc&egrave; e, whom has been kidnapped by 
 some a gang of yakuzas. You go around shooting gangsters and ninjas, which is cool. The sword fights 
 are pretty great, personly I don't agree too much with Greg Kasavin's review. (Though I am kind 
 of a fan, and I am sad that he quit on GameSpot.) The sword fights don't feel like cavemen clubbing 
 each other, but it doesn't feel like your a highly skilled samurai either. But personly I didn't 
 wanna pick on anything so I don't really care. The explosions is some of the greatest things in 
 the game, and the voice acting is pretty good too. And it takes around 10 hours to complete, with 
 14 missions and each
  mission lasting about 30-50 minutes.
  
  In the end Red Steel is a great game and is worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CLeRKSfan4life
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 25, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  The Story isn't very deep or complex but it's told pretty well. Basically, your fiance' has been 
 kidnapped and it's your job to track her down and kill the enemies.
  
  To do this you will utilise various weapons including Shotguns, Uzis, Rifles and the much hyped 
 Katana.
  
  The game starts with you and your fiance in a hotel room. You both go to meet her father and that's 
 when things kick off.
  
  You get thrown in to fire fights galore learning different tricks and strategies along the way.
 
  
  Red Steels controls are very simple to learn. You use the Wii remote and the Nunchuck set up with 
 the Wii Remote used to Aim and shoot and the control stick on the Nunchuck to move. Thrusting the 
 Nunchuck in different directions will perform various actions. For example, thrusting the nunchuck 
 down will either pick up a weapon, reload or or open a door depending on the situation. While flicking 
 it up will knock tables over to give you cover. C is used to jump and Z willwill toggle the standing 
 and crouching positions.
  
  As I mentioned before the Wii remote is used for Aim and shooting your gun. The D-Pad is used for 
 switching between weapons and B is to fire your gun. Holding down A will allow to fine aim. Movinng 
 the controller forwards and backwards while holding A will let you zoom in and out. This is great 
 for when people are hiding or are quite a distance away.
  
  When it comes to the sword fighting the Wii Remote is your katana and the nucnchuck controls a 
 smaller sword that you can defend attacks with. You can use the control stick and C to dodge But 
 thrusting the nucnchuck at the correct time will defend from sword strikes.
  
  The controls work really well for the most part. All the buttons respond and are laid out perfectly. 
 Sometimes the aiming reticule will go a bit crazy on you and your charcter will look like he's 
 having some kind of fit but this hasn't really happened much to me and doesn't really affect the 
 game much.
  
  The actual aiming system works very well. It's easy to look around and aim at people but it can 
 be a bit sensitive at times. Luckily there is an option to chage the sensitivity but I feel the 
 default option works best.
  
  The sword fighting could of used more work considering how hyped it had been. It's not too bad 
 though as it's easy to defend and strike at an enemy, though the action your character makes doesn't 
 always mimic what you've done. For instance Slashing the Remote down could have your character 
 shashing from right to left. This does make it a little less enjoyable as you don't feel as much 
 in control as you do in the rest of the game.
  
  There are quite a lot of weapons to use in this game. You start off with a regular handgun but 
 enemies will drop anything like Uzis, Shotguns and rifles. You can also use hand grenades and rocket 
 launchers.
  
  Enemies are quite smart in this game. They don't just run in to the line of fire. Sometimes they 
 do but most of the time they'll look for the nearest cover. Thes range from walls, behind sofas 
 and knocked over tables. Basically, whatever you'd use as cover, they'll use.
  
  Red Steel as some great visuals depending on how you look at them. Compared to PS3 and XBOX 360 
 games , Red Steel looks terrible. But compared to the latest GC titles and current Wii games, this 
 is one of the best looking games on the Wii. The highlight of the graphics are the characters. 
 The textures look great as do the models and their animations. The environments have a lot of detail 
 and great lighting.
  
  Red Steel has a unique look to it that fits well with the story and it's locations.
  
  The 
 music and sound is pretty well done. There's a great soundtrack throughout the game changes to 
 suit the location. And the music will pick up the pace when there's a lot of action going on. The 
 sound effects are great especially with the added feature of the sound of your gun firing and reloading 
 coming through the Wii Remote's speaker.
  
  All of the effects sound realistic from gun shots, and explosions to footsteps and other background 
 noises. The only thing that could have been better is the voice acting. Enemies sound ok when they 
 shout various things at you but the cut scenes seems hindered abit by the voice actors lack of 
 enthusiasm.
  
  Apart from Single player, Red Steel features support for up to four people with splitscreen.
 
  
  I haven't played much of this as I've been too addicted to the Single player but Multiplayer is 
 pretty decent. You can have regular deathmatches or there is another mode where you can use the 
 Wii remote as a phone to take orders from someone. So you could be ordered to kill a certain player 
 and another could be ordered to protect him. This is a pretty original mode which would be a great 
 addition to any other shoot 'em up.
  
  Overall Red Steel is an awesome game. It's not without it's problems like most games but it's easy 
 to over look these problems realise how great this game is. If you are anything like me, you won't 
 want to put it down after 10 minutes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omegaman21
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what gamespot was thinking when they gave this game a 5.5 it deserves at least a 10. 
 The gamplay is great and the game is so it's perfect for me. The sword are good when you get used 
 to them. The gun battles are so cool, this is the only take home system where you rely on your 
 own aim. Anybody who likes first person shooters should check this out. The glitches in the game 
 only makes the game a little bit easier so there should be no complaint about them. Like I said 
 check the game out first person shooter fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthd008
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 24, 2006 3:51 am PT
Review:  Red Steel is a FPS that takes place in L. A. and Tokyo, Japan. The game is chuck full of intense 
 gunfights and sword fights. The action is pretty consistent but there are problems on the way.
 
  
  Graphically the game has a good presentation but could have been better. Muzzle flashes look good, 
 the sparks as bullets hit look great, and explosions are are too bad either. Character models could 
 have been better but weren't too bad.
  
  In the game play area, some areas were good while other most defiantly need work. Gunfights are 
 fast, furious, and pretty fun for the most part. The gunfights are good but the A. I. is isn't best. 
 Actually at times dumb and buggy. Sword fights, the part of the game that was supposed to be the 
 highlight of the game, became the biggest disappointment. You can only swing the sword in a few 
 directions. There's a half second delay between your movements and the sword movements. And last 
 few fights are difficult, requiring split second timing.
  
  All and all, the game is good and defiantly worth looking at. It has some problems that, at times, 
 does interferes with the overall experience but its not a bad game. If you're and FPS junkie, like 
 myself, then pick this one up. For everyone else, at the very least, rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: derickthegamer
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 23, 2006 11:44 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel's oft-negative reviews are simply unfair. Although the criticisms it is given (control 
 scheme takes getting used to, graphics not-quite-next-gen, little multiplayer or replay value, 
 no epic storyline) can seem to pile up, none of them detract from the game in any significant way. 
 Despite them, Red Steel can quite simply be summed up with: jeez it's fun.
  
  Like any revolutionary innovation, such as the Wii's controls (woah crazy idea maybe they should 
 have called it the Revolution or something!,) there is going to be skepticism from those who have 
 trouble getting used to them and who over-react. So if you're easily frustrated, you will have 
 the trouble adapting that should be expected from one of the first console FPSs based primarily 
 on motion-detecting. But learing and getting used to shooting with the Wiimote is easy, and the 
 heavy-action shooter you'll experience once getting around that obstacle is well worth it. Shooting 
 things by aiming at the screen in a game more sophisticated than Duck Hunt, seeing the gun tilt 
 to either side as you tilt your wrist, melodramatic action stories, rooms full of enemies that 
 you shoot up as fast as you can, etc. are truly enjoyable, and Red Steel offers them all in a game 
 with no significant obstacle to your potential to appreciate them. Those who have played Halo and 
 Halo 2 will be used to the control motion with the left joystick and shoot/aim with your right 
 hand combination that makes interacting with your environment intuitive and simple.
  
  So why not give Red Steel a shot? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swrdof1000trths
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 14, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel can be a very enjoyable game. It's probably got the best graphics on the wii (in select 
 moments of the game) a very nice control scheme and a great musical score. All these great things 
 come with great problems though.
  
  The graphics while good in some places and bland in others actually do almost fulfill the wiis 
 power so I give it that, but .......... the game is filled with bugs, glitches, and slowdowns that 
 sometimes even screw your game up so bad you have to restart the mission. For example sometimes 
 when you win a swordfight the game doesn't switch you back to the gun and you can't even use the 
 sword, you just walk around holding it while being shot at. It's not hard to get by all these bugs 
 if you really like the game, but they can be annoying. Plus, it's funny to see thugs floating on 
 the walls. There is a really good musical score in Red Steel, and it is probably the best musical 
 score besides Zelda currently on the wii. Too bad the incredibly stupid voice acting had to ruin 
 everything for it. Don't get me wrong, I found like 3 guys in the game that actually had some voice 
 acting talent, but everyone else..... ehh..... these guys can be painful to listen to, unless you 
 enjoy laughing at the horrible dialogue, Surrender Dumbass! 
  All the Japanese guys sound like they were picked out of a crowd and it even has one chick who 
 sounds like she was played by a dying Japanese womam.
  
  Despite what most have to say about Red Steel's controls, I think they are the best part about 
 Red Steel, and definitely not bad. Sure, sometimes you'll have trouble aiming if you shake to much, 
 and turning around is kinda slow, but if you keep a steady arm then you'll have no problem. Alot 
 of the controls have you just thrusting the nunchuk up, but is that really a problem. There could 
 have been more variety to those controls, but atleast its easy to remember. Let's see, what else... I'm 
 not done with the game yet, but from what I've heard it has a passing length of the game. And... oh 
 the AI sucks, but you will thank the developers for that, later in the game it gets really hard 
 and frusturating. If it weren't for the checkpoint system I don't know what I'd do. Splitscreen 
 multiplayer sucks, by the way... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SUPERJ3X
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 23, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  well this red steel is one of the best good games i evered play because of the features of the 
 game and the way they made the game looks like your actually in it and the sword fight is very 
 creative i never get tired of this game once in a while u do but u will start playing this game 
 again and again and u will never get tired i know in alot of first person shooter games u start 
 beating it then when u beat it u move on to the next game but red steel is interesting because 
 the way they made it is so fun like the rest of the games u never get tired of it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RogerC44
Rating: 4.4
Date: Dec 23, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  Okay at first this game was kind of cool since I am part Asain I bought this game to do something 
 with my time instead of doing my homework. The camera is another problem I pretty much had but 
 that is just one thing that I didn't like about this game. Being the fool that I still am I got 
 the Wii and went crazy and bought almost any Wii game there was in sight. And while I was buying 
 I actually got Red Steel in my plastic bag and my life never would be the same again.
  
  Sometimes this game feels like it's going somewhere but it just really didn't impress me or meet 
 my expectations of a great sword game. So if you find this game do me a favor don't buy it it would 
 be okay for a rent but that's about it. I sold the game so I don't have to worry about playing 
 it again. I beated the game but that's only because when I play a game I don't want to stop playing 
 it until I beat it. So this game gets a little thumbs down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ConMan09
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 22, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel lost a lot of its hype at E3 and most people didn't think it would be very good. But 
 when I first heard about this game I knew I had to have it when I got my Wii. And I am pretty darn 
 happy I got it!
  
  Gameplay: Red Steel's impact on gameplay is great! You aim exactly were you want! Using the Wii 
 mote you can do things you could never before do in a FPS. Also not to forget the sword fighting! 
 But the reason this game doesn't deserve a 10 is because the sword fighting. Although it is extremely 
 fun the moves can be angering to use and master. A lot of the time the senser doesn't pick up the 
 fast move ments and the skills you learn take time to use and most of the time don't work! But 
 other than the sword fighting the controlls are great and it deserves a good score.
  
  Graphics: Red Steel didn't bring its A game for graphics. But its not the games fault because the 
 Wii's graphics system isn't that powerful so it couldn't generate next gen graphics. So when gamespot 
 gave it a low score they were comparing it to other systems such as PS3 and 360 which can generate 
 great graphics. What gamespot should have done it give it a score based on how good the graphics 
 could have been. Which is why I think the graphics are pretty good. The reason for not being a 
 10 is the mouth movements are sloppy.
  
  Sound: The sound is interesting! The sound is perfect except for the fact that some sounds come 
 out of the Wiimote. If it wasn't for that this would have a 10! But enough about whats wrong... heres 
 whats good. The voices of people is great and the foot steps makes it better and more realistic. 
 The music alough very very strange sounds good. Theres not much other to say other than this games 
 sound is pretty amazing!
  
  So finally this game is underrated and should be played! Red Steel offers a fun but rather short 
 shooter. So finally this game is worth buying! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheik_n_Zelda
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 26, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  http://www. n-insanity. com/modules. php? module=reviews&amp; id=350
  
  Many who chose not to freak out upon first sight of the Wii's controllers had one thing come to 
 mind. Will this replace the keyboard and mouse for the PC FPS brand? More surprising though, is 
 the initial game that was revealed to show off what future console owners would be seeing in the 
 future, was not from Nintendo. The Big N gave the nod to French developer Ubisoft to unlock an 
 exclusive FPS launch title. Entitled Red Steel, the main draws are its unique gunplay and sword 
 fighting. From day one until Wii launch, the title was hyped nonstop. Did this translate into what 
 die-hard FPS fans have dreamed of since the inception of 'point-and-click'?
  
  Before this goes any further, let me emphasize something. I'm sure you've seen every single review 
 out there that tears Red Steel apart. I have too, and didn't like what I was seeing. It almost 
 caused me to avoid my original intention to purchase. However, I chose to defy the insurmountable 
 odds and treated myself to what I feel is a COMPLETELY underrated experience. I have one major 
 problem with those that harped on this game. Did these people actually try to learn how to play 
 it?
  
  By no stretch of the imagination is the first major third party Wii exclusive a fantastic game. 
 I have no problem pointing that out, because like so many, I've had trouble with it. The thing 
 is though, I love playing FPS games, as I'm a fanatic of GoldenEye for the N64. I've played numerous 
 similar titles spanning various series. I understand how they play and how to play them, so I am 
 no fool. Ubisoft didn't do as well as they could've, but for crying out loud, it's the first ever 
 attempt at a title of this sort on a brand new gaming interface!
  
  When I first started Red Steel, I was noticeably frustrated, even in the first mission. I chose 
 a different aiming sensitivity at least ten times until I finally settled down with Medium. I just 
 couldn't seem to get it, as it felt like forever to get my reticule on the mofo's trying to take 
 me down, and I spent a lot of time hiding to recover my health. I also often found my movements 
 causing the onscreen pointer to jump outside of that 'bounding box' everyone seems to love hating. 
 I was on the verge of giving up because I'd never been so embarrassed before like this. But unlike 
 MOST people, I chose NOT to. I made the right decision.
  
  People, understand this. Red Steel is not an easy game to learn, at all. Even with immense patience, 
 you'll need one to three hours to really get a handle on it. But when you do, you'll come close 
 to feeling like you're in control. With the gunplay as a whole, single-handed weapons are rather 
 painful to mess around with. I definitely question why Ubi has your whole forearm sticking out 
 when using one. Picture that for me if you will. Have you ever seen someone hold a gun like that? 
 Probably not, so why'd Ubi do it? I don't have a clue. In all intents and purposes, it's not a 
 bad system, but when you mimic that system with your own arm, you may feel like a 'SPED'. Two-handed 
 weapons are a completely different story. Maintain that it still isn't perfect, but firing off 
 a shotgun or assault rifle becomes pretty second nature after a while. That is because your character 
 holds these weapons like one actually should in real life. This allows the actions done with the 
 nunchuk and Wii remote to be a lot more intuitive. I still don't have it all down, but I now enjoy 
 nailing my adversaries with precision (and satisfying) head and limb shots. Even the sniper rifle 
 is a joy to use, simply because you can't fail with it if you know what you're doing. Zooming is 
 odd though, because you have to physically move the remote forward to do it, why not towards you 
 like a real sniper would? The most intriguing aspect though, is the Focus system, which I wish 
 you could learn much earlier in the game. It allows you to go into a 'bullet time-like' mode allowing 
 you to pick off multiple enemies with a few insanely quick headshots, or make them surrender by 
 firing at their guns and forcing them into submission. Honestly my fellow gamers, if you make the 
 effort to meld your hands with a brand new control implementation, you may just find yourself smiling 
 at one point.
  
  Then of course we have the sword play, which isn't perfect, but has some entertaining moments. 
 At the beginning, the system is plain dull, I wasn't impressed. Your movements are limited to basic 
 techniques and your enemies' are blatantly scripted. It's not one-to-one either, although setting 
 the sensitivity to 'short' movements creates an illusion of sorts that it is. Once you learn your 
 clan's trademark skills and are able to pull off more complex combos, fights become more interesting. 
 There's no blood though, which may throw some people off. This also takes time to learn, especially 
 blocking with your parry blade and counter attacking, but giving it a chance like the gunplay interface 
 may allow you to have interesting battles.
  
  Ok, with all the anti-bad press mess out of the way, let's move on to everything else. Red Steel 
 does have a story, but it's hardly novelty. You control Scott, an American who's strangely adept 
 with a gun and a swordsman by accident. He has absolutely no character development, so he'll as 
 might as well be Bob too. He's engaged to Miyu, a Japanese-American who is the daughter of a major 
 Yakuza boss, Sato. One day, you try to meet Sato at his main headquarters, but some of his enemies 
 crash the party, deal damage to the old man, and take your love bird hostage.
  
  Anyway, you as Scott have three main tasks. One is to obviously rescue your precious Miyu. Another 
 is to exact punishment on those responsible. Finally, you are ordered to gain possession of the 
 clan's sacred blade, the Katana Giri, which your enemies want for some reason. During this entire 
 ordeal, you'll trek through areas in America and Japan, bearing witness to a number of different 
 environments. Those environments look pretty darn good, and the effects that transpire within them 
 are very nice. The way lighting filters through wall cracks or windows offers a more realistic 
 atmosphere, and fire is almost equally impressive, with the textures that billow from it giving 
 off a nice sense of dancing flame. Unfortunately everything else looks pretty drab. All objects 
 around you, like vehicles and statues, have very low poly counts, which is throwback to the N64 
 era. Character models aren't bad, but they certainly look nothing even as close as to what was 
 portrayed through initial screenshots.
  
  Another instance of a mismatch is the composed music and the borderline painful sound (at least 
 regarding voices) . Most of the tunes and effects are very enjoyable. Red Steel is chock full of 
 a blend of what sounds like J-Pop and techno mixed with traditional Japanese melodies. Most of 
 it fits the game very well, as you may even find your body rhythmically moving to it, just make 
 sure you don't mess with your view onscreen. The discharge of your guns is awesome, especially 
 through surround sound, as each type of weapon sounds distinct and realistic. Heck even that little 
 speaker inside the Wii remote adds a little something, as reloading and drawing/clanging your sword 
 all emit some type of auditory pleasantry. The dialogue, though, needed some serious work, because 
 it's laughable at too many parts. Especially when you're labeled a Gaijin, which is equivalent 
 to 'fool' in Japanese. Ok folks, I got the point after the first 15 times it was said, drilling 
 it in every mission was unnecessary. By the way, what was with some of the characters talking with 
 what sounded like a Russian accent? Didn't quite understand that either.
  
  The most significant disappointment is the game's length. I ended up completing a playthrough in 
 just over 7.5 hours. There's a decent number of missions, but they're not really tough, simply 
 because you'll quickly learn how things are setup. In that regard, it doesn't help that the enemy 
 AI wasn't programmed well. I've witnessed too many instances of foes stopping right in their tracks, 
 running right towards me without shooting or not facing me altogether. A number of them actually 
 do hide behind objects and try to flank, but their after actions are so predictable that it makes 
 picking them off just a little too convenient. It's not always that way thankfully, but for a FPS, 
 the standard was set before Red Steel, and Ubi took a step backwards. Going back, the main campaign 
 won't last long for any genre aficionados, but the multiplayer isn't just an afterthought, which 
 also seems to be a topic of debate. It does suck that there is no music, limited arenas and modes, 
 but it does retain a certain nostalgia from the splitscreen era of GE64. With four skillful players 
 involved, you can have some good fun. It's nothing that I can see being played for years like with 
 GE, but it is something to do on the side.
  
  With this entire shpiel about done, what should you think about Red Steel? Well, I'm not going 
 to say because that's not my job. What I can do, however, is say that as a fellow gamer I'm rather 
 disgusted with all those other media establishments and their unfair razing of what's a truly decent 
 game. Again, it's not perfect, and will likely frustrate the hell out of you at some points. But 
 try to work through that and give Red Steel a chance, you may find a hidden layer of entertainment 
 that those guys apparently didn't. Remember, this is just the start. Red Steel has a decent control 
 scheme that isn't broken, just inherently flawed. The atmosphere is appropriate, but the characters 
 within are just meh. In the end, I urge you to give this game a try, regardless of what you've 
 seen or heard. It's not the greatest game, but it does set the stage for future projects that will 
 make Wii owners a prouder group of people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fugas16
Rating: 5.1
Date: Dec 22, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  la verdad hacerca de este juego no ahy mucho que decir por que la verdad me parecio un juego mediocre 
 en pocas palabras si lo compras es como tirar tu dinero a la basura.
  graficamente no se puede hablar del jeugo, del modo de juego con el Wiimote no tiene la sencibilidad 
 que necesita aparte que no se maneja bien no es para nada comodo.
  cero que me divierte mas el de Wii sports.
  bueno apra terminar de reafirmar mi review hacrca 
 de este game es muy malo no merece que lo compren seria bueno si alguna persona llega a querer 
 compraro seria mejor que lo rentara para que viera la verdad hacerca de esto.
  
  By Ed.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inteligencia
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 22, 2006 5:23 am PT
Review:  Let&acute; s get this started...
  Red steel is the latest FPS/action game for the Wii.
  Everyone was shocked with this game, they were expecting much more from the controls, I only dislike 
 the sword scheme its kind of slow and clunky but the shooting scheme feels just great and intuitive.
 
  It has the best original soundtracks of the year and the graphics do not disappoint, much, sometimes 
 looks like your playing a game cube title and other times it looks like a 360 game.
  I feel sorry about the bot multi-player or online mode that were not included, for the loading 
 screens that are sometimes frustrating and the frequent pop-ups in-game.
  In conclusion Red Steel is a great FPS for anyone but if you want the best you will have to wait 
 for Metroid Prime 3: Corruption : )
  If you need anything send me a message... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coleslilwitchy
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 22, 2006 4:58 am PT
Review:  Red Steel is one of those games that is a break through on a new platform. Once you try out the 
 Wii controls you will be hooked on the fighting style and quickly become use to it. The best part 
 of the game is learning all the sword moves. It will take hours and hours to learn them all. I 
 haven't mastered them, but that's the fun. With any new system, there are things that could have 
 been done differently, but I'm pleased with it. I would recommend it to friends and have done so.
 
  
  By joining up at the Dojoofpain. com, an on-line community for the game, I learned so much more 
 about the game. It made it even more exciting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fantasticlink
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 21, 2006 5:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is really far from being amazing, but it dosnt mean its not fun! I played less than 10 
 hours because i do not own a Wii, my friend does, but during those hours i had a heck of a lot 
 of fun. Sword fight is fun to use, shooting controls are fun, so in the end its just fun! And isnt 
 that what gaming is all about. Who cares if the graphics suck or it has a lot of weird little glitches. 
 As long as its fun, your happy and thats all that counts. That is what people should look at these 
 days. Even if a game is horrible looking and you give it a bad mark, thats ok but at least tell 
 the people that the game is just fun. My god, how many times have i said fun. Anyway, yeah its 
 a fun game so at least rent it first and try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathanhawk
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 21, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  You play Scott, a speechless (not one line) tough-guy/bodyguard whose fiancee is abducted by the 
 Yakuza. You must track her down and restore honor to her father's Yakuza clan by storming the Japanese 
 underground.
  
  Ubisoft's Red Steel succeeds at proving the Wii controller and Nunchuk attachment are extremely 
 useful for FPS titles. Aiming was comfortable and quick, however turning around was a bit slow. 
 The ability to slow down time, aim your shots (be it kills or disarms) , then let time resume and 
 fire them all was a great idea. I liked the system of getting respect points for sparing your enemies.
 
  
  You used the nunchuk to pick up weapons, reload, open doors, and launch grenades. It was very comfortable 
 an natural. You had a short sword, and at point-blank range, you can slice a guy with it, but it 
 was difficult to register.
  
  The swordplay, however, was a travesty. Controls were unresponsive and sluggish, and the swordplay 
 maneuvers were too difficult to get off because of the zany control recognition. To top it off, 
 your enemies could attack more frequently than you could.
  
  The graphics would have been considered shoddy on the Gamecube. While I'll be the first to tell 
 you that graphics don't matter, you expect more from a next-gen title; the Wii is capable of more. 
 The cut-scenes were laughable: resembling a paper puppet show. Not to mention you couldn't skip 
 them if you had to restart a level. The audio was good - I liked the sound score.
  
  The level design was fine, I don't play enough First Person Shooters to need unique and esoteric 
 levels. Some scenes included office buildings, docks, factories, and geisha houses. There was one 
 level that took place in a fun house that was really interesting. Bad guy AI was pretty good, but 
 those guys aim as well as Cobra soldiers.
  
  The story was not terrible, but it sure had a crap ending, the kind where you bust your ass through 
 a game and it's CONGRATULATIONS! END. 
  
  There's multiplayer, but I haven't tried it because there aren't enough Nunchuks to go around :) 
 It's probably no Goldeneye, though.
  
  Anyway, it was fun to play through, but by no stretch was it a good game. I give it a C. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexJesus90
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 25, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  I rate this game highly. I bought this game about two days ago and I been playing it for about 
 12 hours now. And I think it is a very good game. Yes, getting used to it may take a while and 
 the aiming is hard but other than that this game is one of the best so far. Graphics are really 
 good for nintendo. It has the same exact graphics as the game Black from Xbox. And I think just 
 maybe the graphics are a little better than that. The game play is amazing and there is a little 
 glitchy ness in the sword fight but you barely notice it. I reccomend this game, and if you have 
 any questions feel free to try to get a hold of me on my aim The Big Boy Alex 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djlj2105
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 20, 2006 12:31 am PT
Review:  excellent game................ to start with but becomes more and more repetetive. still good fun 
 for the shoot em up junkie . in game is fairly enjoyable but the lowsy cut scenes in between levels 
 stop this being a really good game. as the first shoot em up for wii you can allow for a few faults 
 and i may be a little harsh as the more i have played it the more it has grown on me but it is 
 a bit marmite. ( you'll either love it or hate it) i'm not sure which i am. rent it first. short 
 game tho if you rent it you may never need to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: takeru51
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 19, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  It's been a while since i really liked playing an FPS on a console, especially compared to a computer, 
 but Red Steel is proof that the Wii may become the best way to really experience an FPS.
  
  You know how everyone likes an arcade shooter? Well imagine an arcade shooter where you actually 
 control the movement of your character. The dialogue is corny and the accents are thick, which 
 translates into something of a samurai movie, which i absolutely loved.
  
  I'm not sure where the hate for this game is coming from. It was a lot better than I expected it 
 to be and it was far better than a lot of the FPS games that came out during the last generation. 
 I see this game like a promise of what is to come on the Wii. It had good gameplay and graphics 
 that really stunned me. I'd say it's definately worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseball_hottie
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 19, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Despite a lot of the bashing Red Steel is getting for the controls, this game is a must have for 
 any owner of the Wii. It's use of innovative controls alone is enough to keep you playing for hours 
 and hours. Red Steel's gameplay on another console would get rather repetitive, but on the Wii 
 having to manually aim, zoom in, block and stab keeps things interesting. The only things that 
 bring it down are the extreme sensitivity of the remote in this game and that you run into many 
 enemies that just happen to look exactly the same. ; )
  The graphics are superb. The Wii's resolution is not as high as the 360 and PS3, but Ubisoft definitely 
 took there time with these graphics. The use of light and colors brings a whole new experience 
 to gaming. Character voices are really well done. Though, speaking no Japanese myself, I'm not 
 sure whether the Japanese in the game is accurate.
  If you don't buy this and you own a Wii, you might as well sell your console now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArkansasBoy91
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 19, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  Although IMO its a good game, It does have its Downfalls. But in the most part it ROCKS .
  
  It has Lots of action, Theres enough to keep you Occupied and Happy. The Storyline I wouldnt Call 
 Great But It's not bad.
  
  The shooting is simple But its hard if you dont keep your Hand Steady. The sword fighting is harder 
 as you progress through the game but you finally learn how to do it and theres no stopping you.
 
  
  The game is not hard to be really. The sword fighting is the most challenging but like i said the 
 farther in the game you get the harder, but theres training you can do to make you get really good, 
 and within 10 minutes of training your Sword fighting skill is advanced and you can fight really 
 Well now.. so nothing Holds you Back to easily beating the game.
  
  The surroundings for the most part are destructible.. What i mean is in certain levels you can 
 shoot a wall and it bust the wall up a bit, or if theres towers of some sortt you can shoot em 
 and put a big gash in, and the winddows you can shoot and they shatter, it just looks so real and 
 awesome and you just cant put the game down you get so addicted to what you can destroy and your 
 eyes are just stuck on what you can do.. I think the destructible areas is a big part of what makes 
 this game so great. With this feature theres no stopping you till you finish.
  
  The Graphics overall is Very nice.. I dont see why people bash the graphics, there awesome and 
 they look real, But there are certain areas that look more real than others if you know what i 
 mean.
  
  Like i said in the beginning there is plenty of action to keep you occupied and happy and i also 
 said the game has its downfalls, Well Let me explain why.
  
  The storyline is not bad but its not great. Its the same ole Rescue your G/F from the bad guys 
 theme and this is used in videogames allot but is more common in Movies... Its sad that nobody 
 canb come up with something diffrent or atleast something that hasnt been used over a hundred times. 
 But actually i IN A WAY enjoy the storyline a bit but in some ways it makes no sense when you think 
 about it. But also the way the game ends it Clearly shows there will be a part 2 IMO anyway. (also 
 You cant see scotts face or anything in the game either so dont expect that) (the guy you are in 
 the game)
  
  The Voice acting is pretty Pathetic IMO. The girlfriend Sounds like a 15 year old school girl or 
 something, She whines allot and it gets on your nerves REALLY REALLY BAD. The other Voice actings 
 arent Great there like off timing sometimes if you know what i mean. BTW the Character Scott doesnt 
 talk) AND BTW some of the cut scenes things are Still with very little movement and it kind of 
 makes you Unhappy but its not bad..
  
  You Cannot drive Vehicles, Which i think you all know. But IMO i knd of wanted to Be able to drive 
 in the game, I think it would of made the story in some ways better, Like chasing a bad guy down 
 with your SUV and shooting at hiom or the tires, and then destroying his car and then We could 
 get out of our Vehilces and challenge each other to a sword fight.. I just think that would of 
 made it better. In Red Steel there is a Scene like this but You dont actually drive , you just 
 run up a bunch of stairs, then when you get out in the parking garage and start shooting at the 
 guy he wrecks the car and you have a sword fight.
  
  AS you all Know there is no blood what soever in the game so it doesnt Look Realistic but Who cares 
 about that anyway??? the only Blood I hoped to see in the game was with the sword fighting... I 
 m ean why name a game Red sTeel and not have blood when Sword fighting??? well who knows but its 
 no big deal it was just something that was looked forward to and didnt happen, But hey we will 
 live...
  
  All i can say for now is i Cannot wait intil Red Steel 2 comes out because im going to get it the 
 day it comes out, so yeah im really looking forward to it. But i do hope it will have some blood 
 and Even more Destructible Enviroment, And i also hope you can atleast Drive a vehicle in Red steel 
 2 . And thats all i ask for in Red Steel 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musicsponge123
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 19, 2006 6:09 am PT
Review:  When i saw the gamespot review I was shocked. thsi game llokked amazing with the sword fighting 
 capabilitys and everything else.
  I inserted the disc and watched it load up and suddenly though this could be really bad... yet again 
 they were wrong. It took quite long to get the controls right but once you get used to them they 
 really do feel great.
  The trigger under the remote works really well witht he gun.
  The story is that your girl has been stolen by this man who ireckong he is all that ;)
  Howver 
 it can be very annoying when you die because of the remote going out of control which is really 
 annoying.
  The graphics look pretty good and nearly look next-gen. Conclusion
  This game looks great and feels awesome to play however it is let down by the remote going out 
 of control and pointing to the ceiling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Glorgan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 18, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  It's a pretty good game.
  
  I enjoy it.
  
  The controls are..... complex. I think Ubisoft spent too much time trying to utilize the Wiimote's 
 capabilities, and the controls came out just a little touchier than they should've.
  But I have to say, people are exagerating how bad the controls are. I find it perfectly acceptable 
 to just lie in my bed, and play the game.
  
  So far, I've found the story to be enticing, and I'm just loving the whole thing. I don't really 
 get why I have to go into sword fights, when I could be shooting some of these guys, but I do think 
 it is pretty well put together.
  
  When you're actually playing, I find that it isn't too hard to die often. This is counteracted 
 by the healing mechanism. If you stay out of fire for a few seconds, you'll heal to full health. 
 I often find myself ducking behind a crate or some other object, avoiding fire so I can get back 
 to full health.
  
  The game looks great. I mean, it is full of beautiful landscapes and scenery. The people look great 
 too, you're going to see some variety between foes in each level, but usually you won't expect 
 to see more than 2 or 3 different enemy designs.
  
  There's also a pretty decent multiplayer. For 2-player, some of the arenas are a little big, but 
 still fun. I once had a great time sniping one of my friends, then I told him Go back to where 
 you were. He said Okay, of course, he didn't plan to... ten seconds later... he was just walking 
 through the same door. We shared a laugh. The moral of this little story is that the levels are 
 a little big, and you will probably get lost more than once.
  
  Over all, I suggest renting it. I love the game, but I can see why others wouldn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_chewbacca
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 18, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel is really underrated. Its unique gameplay and great graphics combine to create a really 
 special feel to the game. The graphics are the best on the wii so far and the gameplay is really 
 ackward at first but once you get adgusted it doesnt feel bad.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are great. All the guns look nice and the environments are especially good 
 looking. Although they arent any where near next gen, it still makes the game enjoyable. It also 
 had destructable environments which are a great addition which makes this game stand out of other 
 shooters.
  
  Gameplay: At first its a nightmare. The wii mote is extremely sensitive and if your used to using 
 a normal controller it will take alot of time to get used to. Once you grasp it, it will be alot 
 easier but never feels right. You can use guns and swords in this game which is really cool. Youll 
 just randomly have to fight someone with a sword as you play, which gamespot thinks is bad, but 
 its pretty cool. The sword fights arent the best but are always fun and challenging. The guns are 
 all cool because if you tilt your hand sideways so will the character in the game. There are alot 
 of guns to choose from varying from shotguns to pistols to machine guns. But the only downfall 
 is that it gets repetetive if you play it for hours on end.
  
  Sound: The sound effects are amazing. The music is pretty decent aswell. All the guns sound viscous 
 and every object in the environment makes a different sound if you shoot it.
  
  Story: The story is pretty lame. You some japanese guy whos going out with a mob bosses daughter 
 and then the Yakuzas attack and all hell breaks loose. Its not the strongest plot, but its better 
 than nothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamerhk
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 23, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel for the Wii uses the Wii's revolutionary motion-sensor controllers in an intense and 
 thrilling first-person shooter. The game, in general, is amazing, but at times, it is just a total 
 letdown, and it is quite disappointing. Here is a quick summary of the game:
  
  The Good: Impressive graphics, amazing and revolutionary shootouts, uses the Wiimote's motion very 
 well, and makes it feel as though you are actually holding a gun, a great storyline, great intense 
 fighting sequences, extraordinary destructible environments, a ton of action that will keep you 
 at it for hours
  
  The Bad: At times, shootouts seem quite repetitive, some noticeable glitches, and terribly unimpressive 
 sword fighting-it is slow, and also quite inresponsive to your movements, and it is therefore extremely 
 frusturating, also takes a lot of time to get used to playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 17, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  GOOD- Faily Long Story, Good Story; Controls move same as you, twist your writst, twist the gun
 
  
  BAD- Controls are fluggish; Graphics are last gen; You can tell enemies are cut out with the ruth 
 edging; bad dialog; GAMEPLAY-
  Red steel can be a fun game to play with the Nintendo's Wiimote, but the downfall is that the controls 
 are very sluggish, if must turn the same way the gun is aiming, so this courses probblems with 
 aiming and turning, but the Motion sensers work alot in this game, like opening doors, reloading, 
 zooming, locking on, aiming, shooting, counter attack and sword fight, speacking of which, the 
 Sword fighting sucks, and i mean suck, you'd think if you slash the same way with the mote, it'll 
 happen on screen, but it does'nt so this courses painful disapointment and could've been as simple 
 on the gamecube, there is'nt many good combos and you cant stab, so realy your fighting with swords 
 but you seem to be very bad at it but win every time, strange, anyways, the gameplay can be fun 
 if it was made better.
  
  GRAPHCIS-
  Tje worse thing about Red Steel is the graphics, the graphics are lame and look like somthing that 
 came from an Early PS2 game with no detailed backgrounds, cars nor guns and its very buggy, the 
 framerate holds, but just, somthimes during the game theres cutscences with still framed cartoons, 
 which are poorly drawn and dont make sence.
  
  SOUND-
  Pretty good, if you ignore the poor acting, the sound effects are realy good and it has great music, 
 specily in boss sword fights but again the Voice acting are bad and what makes it worse is its 
 bad dailog!.
  
  OVERALL-
  Overall red steel can be good, but it does have flaws, and lots of it too, theres plenty more improment 
 to be done here for the next one, and im sure the people will forgive Ubisoft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merzitar
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 17, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  Red Steel by Ubisoft is an excellent experience for anyones first game.
  The game features alot of good actions and movements with a brilliant soundtrack although the graphics 
 arn't much of an improvement but they're good enough.
  
  I, found that aiming your gun on an FPS is easier with the Wii Remote &amp; Nunchuk than with a 
 normal, standard controller such as Xbox 360 or PS2 and it is more fun and exciting.
  
  I would not call the game SHORT as it took me around or more than 6 Hours and the levels are quite 
 long but don't worry, you get Temporary Checkpoints throughout a level but it also saves after 
 a while though the level so you can take a break, however the game can be a little bit annoying 
 when you get a checkpoint just before a long-ish cut-scene and after the cut-scene there is a hard 
 battle and you keep dying because you cannot skip any movies what so ever.
  
  Going back to the graphics:
  The graphics of Red Steel arn't to brilliant but alot of people 
 are wrong when they say that it could easily be on the Gamecube in it's current state because the 
 graphics are way better than gamecube (well... Apart from Resident Evil 1 &amp; 0) and if they 
 did somehow manage to run it on the Gamecube there would be alot of slow down which there is not 
 much of on the Wii.
  
  Now then... The sword battles:
  The sword battles where excellent and I would not call them slow, but I would not call them fast 
 either, They're just right for me.
  You can change the sensitivity in Options but if I were you I'd leave the sensitivity options as 
 default.
  The Battles are not hard but some times you WILL die.
  
  Anyway, I really enjoyed Red Steel and I will Recommend the game to anyone that is getting or has 
 got the Nintendo Wii and I'd play it more than once after beating the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daniscool
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 17, 2006 4:06 am PT
Review:  You play as Scott, an American, who has a Japanise fiancee, Miyu. Miyu takes you out to a resturant 
 to meet her father. But as you are just about to meet him, she gets kidnapped, by some people pretending 
 to be waiters. They, in turn shoot up everything in the resturant, and injure you and Miyu's father 
 (there was nobody else in the restraunt see, her father booked out the resturant) You take a gun 
 from one of Miyu's father's dead hired bodyguard. This is the opening, and sets the scene for the 
 rest of the game. The opening level is a tutorial level, but there is some basic firefighting, 
 although it is nothing compared to later levels. Anyway, I'm still going on about the story. It 
 turns out Dad is a high ranking Yakuza Boss, and he sends you of to find her. He later dies of 
 his injuries, but as he trusts you, he offers you his family sword, the Katana Giri.
  
  With a few guns and the Katana Giri in tow, you head through the areas of L. A, picking of bad guys, 
 getting ever closer to where your fiancee is being held. Your adventures take you to a warehouse, 
 where at the end of the level, Miyu is in a helicopter, and although you get through 2 tough swordfigts, 
 they fly her off to Japan. And of course, you follow them. Now in Japan, you meet up with some 
 contacts. One is in a Dojo, and teaches you sword techniques. The other is an American called Harry, 
 who owns a bar in tokyo. In this bar you can continue the storyline and unlock new guns for use 
 whenever you like. So, now with daddy out of the way, the other enemy gangs are slowly taking over 
 the tokyo districts. You meet with each boss of the district (there are about 5) to help them and 
 get them on your side. One of the missions in this sections envolves you scaring a yakuza boss 
 onto your side. When you get him on your side, another gang turn up, and a lockdown occurs. While 
 this guy is newly on your side, he instructs you to take out the gang members who are shooting 
 at you, while he unlocks the security system. Why not the other way around? This guy is in a wheelchair. 
 Yup. You can hide behind him, with his ass getting pumped full of lead, and you not getting a scratch. 
 Of course he doesnt die, but you just might. Another mission that deserves a special mention is 
 the mission set in the Game district of Tokyo. You are set in some guys 'Game' where they are the 
 hunters and you are a rabbit. Low lighting and lots of enemies add danger, and the fact there is 
 a giant talking rabbit, little girls giggling and carnival music, you can really tell the developers 
 were trying to psyce you out. Bloody hell it works! In this level, there is a Ski Run, A Dinosour 
 Egg hatching area (yes, theres guy dressed up as dinosaurs, with guns) , An Ice area, lots of long 
 corridors in the dark, A rollercoaster ride (complete with ghosts, and exploding rabbits) , and 
 a maze entirely in the dark. The only light comes from your gun and the bright white faces of the 
 'hunters' The hunters, aside from guys dressed up as dinosaurs, include people dressed up as girls 
 (there are manequins (spelling?) in the level, and trust me, it scares the hell out of you when 
 they come to life) and there the are guys dressed up in black, with bright white faces. Just incase 
 you wanted to know, that was my favourite level. Once you comple the districts, Harry calls you, 
 and demands you back to the bar. Now, im not wanting to spoil the ending for you, but he has a 
 surprise...... and it's not Miyu. Now im actually going to get onto the gameplay side of the game. 
 You use the analogue stick on the nunchuck to move and the Wii remote to point. The B button fires 
 your weapon and A, whist pointing at an enemy locks on. I find locking on is unnessecary (again, 
 spelling) as you have a greter manoverability and more precision..... unless your a teenage boy 
 who cant contol themselves (i'm the exception to the rule) . Holding A whilst not pointing at an 
 enemy zooms in. To pick up a weapon (you can only hold 2 at a time) , Reload your gun, Open doors, 
 Kill an enemy at close range, or knock over tables, flick the nunchuck up, or down. Z on the nunchuck 
 is duck, and C on the nunchuck is Jump. You wont be using jump that often, but it does come into 
 play occaisionally. Another nice little touch is if you want to answer yes or no to a question 
 is that you move the pointer to the top of the screen and then to the bottom (as if you were nodding 
 your head) to say yes, and shake the remote from side to side to say no. As for sword fighting, 
 I'm not too keen on this, as they feel a little tacked on. You could easily win a battle just by 
 constantly swinging in one direction. There are special moves, but they take to long and are difficult 
 to execute. You can parry a shot by flicking the nunchuck up at the right moment. To do a special 
 move, you hold Z and then slash in a specific direction. There are also special sequence of slashes 
 to do too. Holding C and moving the analogue stick moves your character. You will need to use this 
 often, because sometimes, an enemy will do a move which you are unable to parry (as indicated by 
 red lines in the game) Grenades can be found on enemies the throw them at you (you have plently 
 of time to get out of the way if they throw them, although there are no indications of which enemies 
 carry a grenade) or you could find them in a grenade box. You can carry up to 6 grenades at a time. 
 To throw a grenade you press down on the D-pad and swing the nunchuck down. If you want to roll 
 it along the ground, press down on the D-pad and swing the nunchuck up,
  
  Graphics-wise, the character design is a little sloppy, and is not what should be expected on the 
 current-gen systems, also (not to do with graphics, but) if you have the subtitles on (which you 
 probably will, trying to hear what the Japanise are saying in English is hard enough) they often 
 run ahead of the speech, and the less said about the lip-synching the better. Textures however, 
 are done quite nicely, for example, if you go into a lift and walk right up to a wall, you can 
 see scratches on the material. if you look at metal objects, they reflect sunlight quite accuratley, 
 and grass seems to be individual blades, moving independantly, which is a nice touch. Explosions 
 are slightly OTT, but it's always funny to see an enemy catapulted 40 feet into the air due to 
 an exploding fork-lift. Enemies can be quite intelligent, often taking cover behind pillars, or 
 hopping over walls, then moving out at different positions to take shots at you. However, sometimes 
 they will stand infront of you trying to shoot you point blank.... If you do get injured, and you 
 can take cover, after a short while your health recovers, which, i think is a bit pointless. I 
 would have preferred health packs, but it's no biggie. Overall, this game is enjoyable, if you 
 ignore the slight bugs, which dont cause much irritation anyway, and you understand that this is 
 a launch title, you should have good fun with it. I do not belive, that it deserves a 5.5/10, as 
 gamespot gave it, nor do i belive it deserves a 91% the official Uk Nintendo magazine gave it, 
 but it does deserve somewhere in-between, which is why i give it a 7.7 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pdwaiter
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 16, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  An exclusive first-person action / adventure game from Ubisoft for the Nintendo Wii. Red Steel 
 is set in both the US and Japan. Players will master both the ancient art of the katana and the 
 sophisticated technology of modern firearms taking advantage of the emotion and immersive gameplay 
 possible only with the Wii's remarkable controller. The title utilizes the Wii's free-hand style 
 controller for innovation control mechanics, including allowing players are able to hold swords 
 or guns normally or side-armed depending upon how they hold the controller while playing. Meanwhile, 
 it's possible to block incoming attacks using the sword, too. In action, gamers will be able to 
 jump over and take cover behind objects with the flick of the Wii controller. In addition to all 
 this, you can shoot out of fishtanks, hold your gun gangsta-style, and make the enemy submit to 
 you... if you're feeling merciful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STongue
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 15, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Most press reviews have been coming out bad. You'd think most of the press reviews would actually 
 judge the game on what most people think it is, a near typical arcade shooter.
  
  Now don't get me wrong, I do agree that this game isn't the best, but it is still better than most 
 of the reviews from the press.
  
  First, let's start off with this: Inane story chock-full of painful dialogue... -GameSpot. First 
 off, the story is just a normal, typical storyline. Your girlfriend gets kidnapped, and you go 
 to save her. Simple. Of course, for some reason, the press seems to think games today are suppose 
 to have stories so deep as an actual theatrical, 10-academy award winning storyline. Red Steel 
 doesn't seem to be intended for a theatrical storyline, so therefore I will not judge it.
  
  Next, the graphics. Some say it isn't great, others do. I say it's pretty awesome for a third-party 
 Wii launch title. I'd like to say it's about on par with Counter Strike Source for the PC, just 
 not as fluid. The game looks beautiful and it runs solidly with barely any lag.
  
  The game play is the most questioned, and talked about, point of the review. First and foremost, 
 it is your opinion on how the controls are. I'd just like to express mine here. First off, the 
 controls do take a little bit to get use to. After that, I had a blast. It would have been perfect 
 with the PC FPS reticule control, but this control scheme is great. The aiming is near-precise 
 and the sword fights are fun.
  
  Thanks for reading another short review by STongue! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scifi151
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 15, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel is all about fun. As long as you forgo the slightly inferior graphics of the Wii, this 
 game is super fun. Aiming is pretty on, and swordplay is intuitive. The AI can be spotty at times, 
 and it does break you our the otherwise immersive gameplay, but overall this is still a really 
 fun, semi-serious title for the Wii that fills an otherwise empty niche. We'll see once I get to 
 play Far Cry, but for now, this is the best out there. Also, the learning curve on this game is 
 so simple, my little brother could pick this up and play it no problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ecko4akamu24
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 14, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  To start off this review, I just want to make note that Red Steel is the first of many FPS games 
 to come on Wii. Like the rest of the Wii launch games, it has its flaws. But that does not take 
 away from a truely enjoyable experience via the wiimote. Actually, I think the controls and wiimote 
 drew me in to Red Steel and made me appreciate it more. Take the graphics for what they are, personally 
 I love the art style and the approach that was taken. The most impressive thing to me was the physics, 
 reflections, glass, etc. The small things made a big difference to me and my game time. Simply 
 put, Red Steel takes advantage of the wiimote and the speaker as well. The sound effects and being 
 able to perform tasks like opening a door really make Red Steel shine. I found the AI to be very 
 smart in sneaking up on me in certain situations and you have to take cover from gunfire a lot. 
 Controlwise, like all Wii launch games, it just takes some getting used to. Once you grasp the 
 concept of the controls, it turns out to be pure genious. What I like most is how there is a different 
 array of levels and several different moves to learn with the sword. Things like target practice, 
 freezing time, and choosing your enemies fate are also worth mentioning. As I write this review, 
 I'm about 70% finished with Red Steel and I must say I am impressed. Sure it has certain flaws 
 or things I would have liked to see, but Ubisoft took a huge gamble. And I think that really paid 
 off, at LEAST give Red Steel a rent and decide if you like it, it's worth the money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkfame
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 14, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  If you don't plan to use some time getting used to the controls, forget this game. Everyone will 
 suck at this game in the beginning, but once you get the hang of it... the controls aren't actually 
 as bad as some reviewers say. I find it easier to aim and hit targets with these controls than 
 the traditional classic controller setup (dual analogs) due to the very precise Wiimote. The turning 
 might feel a bit weird at first, but you'll learn to handle it well and get the feel of it. Forcing 
 the player to move the aim in order to turn has it downsides, but it also adds a kind of special 
 feeling like that you are actually holding the gun. Except the controls this game performs almost 
 just like any other first person shooter. Almost, because of the occasionally sword fights (which 
 doesn't always transition very well from the gun action) . The environments are varied and destructible, 
 and tables can be flipped over to be used as cover. I've occasionally seen a few bugs with the 
 AI, but nothing show stopping. The story is OK, not exactly very high quality when it comes to 
 voice acting or content... but would you expect that from a first person shooter? The way the story 
 is told reminds me a bit of Max Paynes story telling style. Graphically, this game certainly isn't 
 a gem.. but it gets its work done. Sometimes it looks quite good, other times not. I haven't noticed 
 any major slowdowns or any framerate issues. Both sound effects and music are of good quality. 
 If you like first person shooters and don't care much about story, you should give it a try. I 
 guess this is one of those game you either hate or like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damicster
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Now, Ever since i first saw the pictures and adverts about red steel i thought to myself 'I NEED 
 TO GET THAT WITH MY WII! and sure enough i did.
  
  I have been playing it non stop and so far have done around 50% of the whole game. Combined with 
 innovative controls, Amazing graphics and non linear voice acting.
  
  Gamespot should NOT have given Red Steel such a low rating, It is probably the best wii launch 
 title for fans of FPS' and gives an insight into Japanese gangs and how americans are treated if 
 they are living in america.
  
  Gritty. Addictive. Amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameshark5
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 13, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  The Good: The game looks alright in small doses, good variety of guns, amusing story, sword fighting 
 is somewhat unique
  The Bad: Getting up close and personal can make some things look pretty bad, story is fairly short 
 and straightforward, sword battles arent very compelling and lack in depth, lots of technical 
 issues.
  
  Red Steel was one of the first titles announced for the Wii, and is certainly one of the most anticipated, 
 next to Twilight Princess that is. However, while the game was one of the most anticipated, it 
 generally falls flat with lots of technical flaws. Its got an amusing, but straightforward story 
 which you might come to expect if this was a movie. Is that a good or bad thing? Well i'm not here 
 to tell you.
  
  So in Red Steel, youre with your fianc&eacute; e Miyu, whos nervous as hell because youre to 
 tell her father Sato that you want to marry her. The amazing twist? Well Sato happens to be a powerful 
 member of the Yakuza. Yet, unlike the others, hes quite noble and honorable. So as you and your 
 fianc&eacute; e are heading towards Sato, all hell breaks loose. Miyu is kidnapped, your father 
 in law is shot, and youre left there with a gun and sword in hand, against an army of Yakuza.
 
  
  So the game is a first person shooter kind of game, its not your tactical shooter of the year, 
 nor is it the next gears of war. Its your average shooter, with a whole new type of control. Generally 
 speaking, your hand and wrist movements will be emulated on the screen. You can shoot almost anyway 
 you want. Shoot normally, like a gangster, or just plain weird. However this comes to be somewhat 
 distracting sometimes as the slightest movement causes a noticeable change in the on screen arm. 
 But that doesnt cause too much of a problem. So in your magnificent battle against the Yakuza, 
 youll be picking up different types of weapons which are all fairly easy to use. Which is a very 
 good thing, as the learning curve wont be much of a problem. If it was, then god knows how terrible 
 this game would be. So the basic controls are simple. Move the wiimote; while pointed at the screen 
 to aim your weapon. Tilt your wrist to a certain direction, and your gun will do the same. By clicking 
 the B button youll fire, and by pushing a certain direction on the D-Pad youll reload, switch 
 weapons, or pull out a grenade. So the controls seem to work fairly well, however aiming was a 
 problem. One problem worth mentioning is the way you turn. In order to turn your view left or right, 
 youll need to drag your cursor to that far side in order to move the screen. In that half second, 
 youre almost guaranteed to get shot more than once if youre in a gun fight.
  In addition to running and gunning, about 20% of your battles will be by sword rather then gun. 
 While this seems quite intuitive, there really isnt much to it. You can do your basic horizontal 
 and vertical slashes, and you can also dodge attacks too. Parrying proves quite useful in some 
 situations, as you can knock them off balance and then go in for a few slashes, which never really 
 seem to actually hit the guy youre fighting. So the basic routine in a sword fight is as follows: 
 Waitingdodge, attack, attack. Waitingparry, attack, attack. Waitingdodge, attack, blocked. This 
 gets very repetitive, and even though youll unlock a few different moves to use against your foes, 
 it doesnt change much. On a positive note though, youll definitely see a colorful cast of different 
 faces along the way. Some of which youll spare for respect, and some of which youll put out of 
 their misery. Graphically speaking, the game looks decent at best. Some of the environments look 
 fairly good and the explosions are always overdone, which is actually a nice treat. Some of the 
 character models look well done, but when you get close and personal they tend to look really fuzzy 
 which is really disheartening. But this is one of the many flaws youll come to forgive as you 
 progress.
  
  The story itself is actually played through via animated comic strip type things. Judging by the 
 up close character models in the actual game; the comic strip approach is probably for the better. 
 Every once in a while youll come to a short or long movie with some good looking pictures with 
 a decent amount of color, which really makes it that much better. While youre in some gunfights 
 though, youll come across an in game conversation, which usually sounds really bad and is one 
 of the many movies you cant skip. So when you get into a tough battle, and you lose, youll not 
 only have to work your way back up to where you were, but youll also have to listen to (for the 
 most part) terrible sounding voices.
  
  While were on the topic of tough gunfights, one really noticeable flaw is the inevitable glitch 
 that forces the screen to freeze. Youll be popping 4 or 5 thugs in a narrow hallway, and then 
 suddenly itll freeze. Youll be stuck and in a matter of moments, youll be back in action; usually 
 facing the entirely wrong direction with little to no health left. This really gets annoying and 
 increases the difficulty to a level it never needed to be.
  
  Some of the voice work is done quite nicely. While your character remains without an appearance 
 or voice, a lot of the other characters sound pretty good. Satos voice is worth mentioning. While 
 he doesnt talk much, his speech is convincing. There are numerous people in the game whose voice 
 is done well, but there are also numerous people whose voice is so terrible that youll wish you 
 never had to play it again. However, usually when you get into a situation like this, it usually 
 pops up in the middle of a tough battle. On a lighter note, a lot of the background music is soothing. 
 Youll sometimes get this hardcore battle theme which is a reminder to keep focused on all the 
 guys you got coming towards you. And then theres some nice techno like music with these girls 
 singing a few words here and then, which in my opinion is the best song on there. Its light, and 
 sounds pretty good too. Plus the beats catchy, so thats another thing. After youve spent 8-10 
 hours going through the games story mode and youre angered by the quite abrupt ending, there is 
 a split-screen multiplayer mode you can take a look at. Youve basically have your standard deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch and a somewhat unique mode called Killer. In the Killer mode each person will be 
 given a distinct objective, usually being responsible for killing a certain person. Each time you 
 complete your task you get a point. The person with the most points at the end wins. While this 
 seems quite compelling and fun, the multiplayer really wont keep you interested for a long time, 
 and since this like many other games wont give you bots or anything like that, your going to need 
 to plop $70 for another nunchuck and wiimote.
  
  When it comes right down to it, Red Steel is a fairly average shooter with several flaws. Its story 
 mode is quite straightforward with a sudden start and abrupt beginning, and with its short length, 
 it doesnt give you much of an explanation. But its control scheme is promising, and with some 
 fine tuning, a sequel would be in order. So if it werent for the unique controls changing this 
 game from a fairly straightforward shooter to a fun way to kill, the game would definitely be in 
 trouble. But with the controls being far from ordinary, the game does show some fun value to it 
 which should entertain most people. With that said, If youre willing to forgive some of Red Steels 
 flaws, and arent expecting a masterpiece, or your just one of the many who purchased a Wii looking 
 for something to do (rather then beating Zelda for the 5th time) , Red Steel is a game definitely 
 worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joespimpin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 13, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Immersive controls, voce acting the whole way through, some slight choice in when you 
 take on what mission, fun sword techniques, game is over just before it gets old.
  
  THE BAD: Lock-on function really doesn't work right. Big controls learning curve, turning can be 
 problimatic, sword fights seem limited, collision detection problems with environment.
  
  Red Steel kind of has a bad rap amongst reviews from magazines and websites alike. There are technical 
 problems with the title that are hard to look past, but none of them keep the game from being fun 
 to play. That aside if you brae the depths of this game, it will leave you wondering rather you 
 had your moneys worth or got gipped.
  
  REVIEW CONTAINS NO SPOILERS, FEEL FREE TO READ EVEN IF YOU HAVEN'T PLAYED THE GAME.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
 
  
  Red Steel is at heart a first person shooter title. They throw in some sword fighting into the 
 mix using the Wii Remote and Nunchuk to spice it up a bit. This has two major problems all by itself. 
 First off it is a FPS, fans of the genre are used to lightning quick controls that don't really 
 force you to think about how you are playing, entering a room or so forth. In Red Steel you have 
 to be aware of your environment and where you can take cover. You can't rely on the controls to 
 make up for your own lack of observation. In games it is good when you make it easy for people 
 to adapt, Red Steels control mechanics keep that from happening. Secondly you have two battle systems 
 working together. Although sword fighting isn't as in depth as the shooting mechanics, there is 
 essentially two different learning curves in the game. Sword fights happen often and force you 
 to sometimes beat more than one oppoent at a time with the same health bar. Making for some much 
 needed training. Luckily Red Steel offers some training and the game slowly introduces you to smarter 
 sword fighters allowing you to develop your skills.
  
  The health bar is also rechargable so if you get into trouble hide behind something and wait for 
 a recharge. The enemies in the game are equally marksmen as they are sticking out in the open. 
 This helps you more than hurts. It is possible to run and gun but you have to know when to stop 
 and take cover. The key to getting good at this game is to understand its limitations.
  
  CONTROLS:
  
  The first major problem with the controls I have seen in Zelda TP for Wii as well 
 so I know its a Wii problem and not just Red Steel. You have to keep the pointer pointing at the 
 screen at all times. If you don't the camera will go off in different directions leaving you spinning. 
 This can easily be fixed by finding the 3D space of the Wii Remote again. You just have to learn 
 how to work with it. Most of the time it wasn't a problem and I didn't die once because of this 
 issue.
  
  The other problem with the controls is how complex they are. If you are new to FPS style games, 
 you aren't getting an easy ride here, at the same time you might enjoy the control scheme much 
 more.
  
  The controls are surprisingly responsive and have a few sensitivity settings to help you adjust 
 the game to your gameplay speed. I recommend the highest setting for players with quick reaction 
 times. It also makes turning less of a chore and more fluid.
  
  The sword play controls were easy to learn and tough to master. Some of the combos were hard for 
 the Wii Remote to pick up properly all the time but overall it added more to the fight and made 
 me go all out more during swordplay.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Graphics were a hit and miss. Some textures and backgrounds were beautiful, while others were low 
 detail and took away from the look of the game. Some places also had destructable environments 
 whiles others still didn't. Leaving an inconsistant level design.
  
  The characters themselves weren't memorable. They are too generic but lets face it you are shooting 
 them not trying to get them to model. The characaters were fine in that regard.
  
  The rendering style left something to be desired as up close the graphics got pixelated and you 
 could see the attempt to shade out textures to make them smoother.
  
  Overall the game had a decent presentation but nothing to write home about.
  
  SOUND:
  
 
  There is voice acting throughout the entire game, from the cliche lines that the enemies say in 
 the game, that you would never hear in a real gun fight, to the bad voice acting in the cut scenes. 
 However it was nice to not have to read anything considering this is supposed to be a fast paced 
 FPS game.
  
  The music is beautiful however seemed to come in and out as gun fights happened, the music started 
 many times before the fight did, ruining the surprise. There were other atmospheric tunes. The 
 quality of music is not in question in this game, they really did try to create some more upbeat 
 and cultural tones for the game.
  
  VALUE:
  
  I had fun with Red Steel. I found myself getting more immersed in the action according to the situation. 
 The swords fights had me swinging the Wii controller all over the place. I was enjoying the title. 
 That aside the game isn't really a good value. Once you beat the game, there isn't anything compelling 
 to make you go back. The multiplayer modes won't open up til you play through the one player game, 
 so having lots of fun with friends over split screen won't happen soon. Plus you all have to overcome 
 the control barrier before the game gets fun.
  
  I definately say rent it before you try buying it. It might be your cup of tea or might not. Red 
 Steel has collision problems with some of the objects in the game that wil leave your cursor directly 
 on an enemy and shooting nothing. If that frustrates you, you may not be able to handle this title.
 
  
  There are plenty of other nit picky things I could bring up as well.
  
  TILT/CONCLUSION:
  
  Overall Red Steel suffers from being a launch game more than has technical 
 problems. This title is ambitious and has potential to be great in further iterations. The huge 
 learning curve and constant need to be focused on the game will turn some types of players off.
 
  
  In the end you have to either decide to get into the game or not. You will love it or hate it, 
 there is no middle ground. I rather feels sorry for this title because it shows so much potential 
 for an FPS game, but doesn't quite deliver on any front.
  
  So it is with a heavy heart and some bleak moments of gameplay that felt truely alive that I put 
 this title out to pasture. I give Red Steel a mixed feeling 7.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobenator
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 13, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  So Red Steel. Everyone knows that it was the biggest flop for the Wii launch, but a lot of people 
 still went out and bought it. I was one of those people, and this game rocks. So here goes a fairly 
 thorough description of the game.
  
  Story: So, first off is the story. You're name is Scott, and you go with your fiance to meet her 
 dad in China (I think it's China) . Then you meet him, and all hell breaks loose. Lots of bad guys 
 with guns come in, take his daughter, or your fiance rather, and basically high tail it out of 
 there. Turns out that Sato, your fiance's father, is a gang leader. Basically there is an anarchy 
 in the gang, and a guy (I forget his name) wants to take over it for himself. So yeah, you get to 
 go and save your girlfriend. Awesome. So, Sato gives you his precious Katana Giri, which the gang 
 members want for some reason, and you basically get to go destroy his gang, and kill some dudes 
 with a sword, all while saving your girlfriend. Good stuff. Now, on to gameplay.
  
  Gameplay: The shooting part of this game is really fun I though. Being able to have exact precision 
 with your aiming is really awesome. The only bad thing about it is that to turn your character, 
 you must point the cursor to the edge of the screen. This took me a solid hour to two hours to 
 get it down so that I wasn't all over the place with the reticle. After that though, I had a blast. 
 Headshots never felt so awesome, and spraying a room with bullets is very satisfying. Almost everything 
 in the environment is destructable too, but I do have to say, there seemed to be way too many things 
 to blow up in some areas. Still, freaing fun once you get the controls down. So patience is a virtue 
 if you want to enjoy this game. Then, there's the swordfighting. This is kind of meh. The moves 
 are preprogrammed by the game developers, so you have a limited amount of moves, and it never really 
 shows your exact motions on the screen. I never really liked the sword fighting that much until 
 after I had beaten the game and gone back through to play some of the more fun levels again. It 
 isn't horrible, but it isn't that good. I guess it's just a nice break from shooting up all the 
 baddies everywhere. There are quite a few glitches with the aiming sometimes too. The reticle will 
 sometiems just spaz out on you, and you won't know what the deal is. Luckily, it never really did 
 that to me in combat but maybe once. So it wasn't that big of a deal to me, just kind of a frustrating 
 thing. I beat this game in about 10 hours, which isn't bad. I didn't bother to go throguh and unlock 
 everything yet, so I'm really only 75 percent done with the game. If you want, you can go back 
 and try and do better in the levels to unlock more things.
  
  Graphics: I have an HDTV, and don't have component cables yet, so this game was pretty jaggy and 
 nasty. Though I did bring the consol to a friends house who has a SDTV, and It looked pretty much 
 like a decent looking PS2 game. The explosions looked the best though. Good fire animations, and 
 the water looked alright as well. The character animations were alright, and the ragdoll physics 
 was definitly cool. Not bad, but definitly not a game that shows the graphical power of the Wii.
 
  
  Sound: The sound was very good. The guns all sounded good, and the addition of the speaker on the 
 controller really puts you into the game. For example, when you reload, the controller makes a 
 reloading sound, just as if you were holding the gun in your hand for real. Also, the music was 
 great. When swordfighting, the music is that of choir voices, and it just sounds awesome. The rest 
 of the music is alright, and sometimes the music can be very atmospheric, and really make your 
 heart race.
  
  Value: Again, the game only lasts about 10-12 hours in the single player, but I will definitly 
 find myself going back and playing through a lot of the levels. There is a multiplayer mode for 
 4-player split screen, but if you have a small TV, the screens will be way to small to play with 
 4 people. For 50 bucks, you get a solid 20-30 hours of gameplay I bet. Not bad, but not great
 
  
  Tilt: I liked this game. I don't know why it got bad scores everywhere, but I thought it was pretty 
 fun. Sure, there's a lot of glitches with the aiming, and the swordfighting isn't that great, but 
 I still had a blast shooting up baddies everywhere. I would recommend this game to pretty much 
 anyone that wants a shooter, unless you want to wait for MP3 or another game with more refined 
 controls.
  
  So that's it. Fun game, despite it's flaws. The gunplay was really fun, once you got it down, and 
 the sword fighting was alright. I would recommend this game to everyone that owns a Wii, even if 
 you just go out and rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omegaman007
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  The Wii came out, and I snagged this at the Wii Launch, along with Zelda. Naturally I am just getting 
 to it, and despite the bad hype by Gamespot I have to say I am enjoying this game a lot.
  
  Maybe I'm just getting old but I think we are in an age of graphically great games. I'm pretty 
 simple and don't own a fancy TV, an HD or a plasma screen but I still think Red Steel looks pretty 
 good.
  
  The gameplay is solid, but it takes a lot of getting used to. This will be the same for any Wii 
 First Person Shooter though, because the control scheme is all new and revolutionary. Everyone 
 playing this game will have to get used to it. However, once you do, the game is a lot of fun. 
 The controls will come second nature to you. You may not be diving across your living room like 
 the people in the commercials, but you will be playing a fairly immersive game.
  
  The story of the game is its weakest aspect. For the most part the reason for this is AWFUL voice 
 acting. It does set the tone and the context for the gameplay though, which is straightforward. 
 The levels are really well done with lots of challenges and a nice assortment of guns to help get 
 the job done.
  
  The sword fights are fun too. They aren't as cool as I thought they would originally be but they 
 are still enjoyable experiences, whether they are end level bosses or mid-level breaks. Some of 
 the special moves, or katas you learn are impractical and useless but otherwise the sword fighting 
 is well done.
  
  Multiplayer looks to be fun, though I think it appeals more to people who own the game, as it would 
 be really hard for a newer player to pick it up. It's only the shooting and not the sword fighting 
 but that's ok.
  
  The only other dissappointment would be the lack of online multiplayer, which is surprising for 
 a game made by Ubisoft, known well for their Splinter Cell franchise and the unique multiplayer 
 presented in that series. However this complaint would not be directed at that company as much 
 as at Nintendo. This type of service should be integrated and in place, especially as they enter 
 the next-gen market. They can do it with the DS and they should be doing it with the Wii, now.
 
  
  Overall those complaints are fairly petty and Red Steel has solid gameplay that most gamers should 
 enjoy. It uses a solid control scheme which will undoubtably be built on in future FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thitsa
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  I've been playing this for about an hour and I'm pretty impressed with the controls. There's certainly 
 something to be said for being able to physically point at what you want to shoot, instead of controlling 
 a cursor with an analog stick or mouse. I do enjoy playing shooting games at the arcade and the 
 wiimote brings some of that feeling. While not as accurate as using the keyboard/mouse, it's definitely 
 much more intuitive than the analog stick. I enjoyed the B-movie styling of the game; similar in 
 feel to manga TV shows or the Tarantino movies like Kill Bill. The graphics are not as detailed 
 as FPSs on other systems, but I gave it extra points for the visual styling. You do get tired of 
 holding out the wiimote after about an hour, but that's not necessarily a bad thing -- it means 
 it's time for me to take a break. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redline2200
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 13, 2006 12:06 am PT
Review:  An overall terrible game when compared to the hype that it received months before coming out.
 
  Boring story mode, relatively unappealing levels, and clunky sword controls (which could have 
 been the highlight of this game with the wiimote and all) make this game fall short of its expectations.
 
  My biggest complaint of this game though, is the tremendously high number of glitches. I am not 
 talking about pointless cosmetic glitches, I am talking about major malfunctions that prevent you 
 from continuing in the story mode. More than once I was forced to start over in a level just to 
 realize that the reason I couldn't advance was due to the game failing to trigger a necessary event 
 in the level. I also had the game completely miss checkpoints more than once, causing me to do 
 way more extra work than I should have had to.
  The multiplayer is fun, but would have been much, much better with the addition of bots. Sometimes 
 it is much more fun to play on the same team as those you are playing with instead of constantly 
 having to kill each other.
  
  Should have been better, and from the likes of Ubisoft, I quite frankly expected better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonstrative1
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 12, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  The Wii's first batch of games, by and large, left something to be desired. But what many of them 
 did do is gave us a glimpse into the future of gaming, and that's exactly what Red Steel does.
 
  
  It was a tough call on what to rate the gameplay, because I really respect what Ubisoft was going 
 for with the controls and they are surprisingly well done. The game can, however, be a little wonky 
 at times in this department, but never really enough for me to mark it down significantly.
  
  This game has been receiving a lot of flak for its graphics, but I was actually pretty impressed 
 by how good it looked. Granted it wasn't a 360 title but the graphics had a neat style that I really 
 enjoyed.
  
  The sound, while above-average, isn't really anything to write home about, especially in the area 
 of voice acting. I did like the way the weapons sounded, though, which was what the bulk of the 
 sound effects consisted of.
  
  Overall, this game is worth picking up with your Wii; there's just something irresistable about 
 swordplay and shoot-outs that appeals to me and it's done in a way that is more than entertaining. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Herosuperdude
Rating: 5.2
Date: Dec 12, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  I was so looking forward to playing Red Steel. It looked like a lot of fun. So when my friends 
 and I first bought our Wii, we played some sports, and after a while played red steel. At first, 
 I thought it was just the new controlling scheme that made it so hard to play. But as I continued 
 to play, I did began to master the controller, but it was still difficult to aim accurately and 
 hit the other players. Multi player, we decided as a group, did not work well, and wasn't any fun. 
 But, I thought, one player would be better. So I began the single player mode. I ignored the strange 
 beginning where you had to look at a bunch of fish in a container as my character's girlfriend 
 told me to look at each one, and enjoyed the first two or three minute battle that immediately 
 followed. At first, it seemed fun, and had an interesting feel to it. The controller became easier 
 to handle, and I could hit the bad guys with ease. I think 90% of all the men I killed had some 
 kind of glitch where their legs would shake like it was having convulsions. That got a little irritating 
 after a while. The cut scenes were a cool idea also, but it looked like they were thrown together. 
 That, and poor voice acting, made them a pain to watch, especially since I couldn't skip them. 
 The first sword fight was actually fun. This was the one fun part of the game. The swords worked 
 well generally and I had fun fighting with them. The rest of the game was full of glitches, including 
 a guy floating up in the air as I tried to kill him. He was stuck inside a staircase, and his leg 
 was sticking out so I had to shoot him in the leg several times and he finally died. Basically, 
 this game could have been fun if more effort had been put into it. For the controller being the 
 main focus of the game (Which is what the advertisements led me to believe) it didn't even work 
 well. The graphics weren't an issue, because I wasn't expecting a lot from the Wii, but the poor 
 game play, terrible voice acting, and many many glitches are what pulled me away from this game. 
 If you want a game where you can just shoot people and use swords and don't care about the mistakes, 
 than you might like this game. My brother likes it, but nobody else I know does. I would say, rent 
 it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilshortydan12
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 27, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I and im sure many other people thought that red steel was going to be a good game because its 
 the first FPS for the Wii and the Wii controller works very well with FPS but somehow Ubisoft just 
 failed to make it at least a decent game. The game play isn't as good and as innovative as it should 
 have been. The motion sensing doesn't handle to well and feels way to loose. The gun play is halfway 
 decent at most. The sword fighting is just very sloppy and doesn't work very well either. There 
 is no blood when you hit someone which makes it look very unrealistic. While the controls are somewhat 
 responsive it still doesn't work right. As for graphics, if the game was made 2 or 3 years ago 
 on the current gen systems, then it would be passable, but those graphics now just look very dated 
 and the game doesn't look nice at all. There are tons of graphical glitches in the game. The actual 
 game itself feels like a 3 year old game. The sound is no more than decent. The voice acting is 
 terrible and the dialog is really bad too. The guns sound pretty nice but we have heard better. 
 You will play this game for tops 2 hours and will most likely not even want to play it anymore 
 unless you actually really like this game. There is no online though there is a multi player feature 
 which is just really bad. Its up to 4 players but it gets old quick and is very boring. There is 
 only 4 maps and I do believe only one game mode which is death match which isn't even fun to play. 
 Overall Red Steel is no more than a sub-par game that very few people will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Migaru
Rating: 5.2
Date: Dec 13, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  The Good: soundtrack
  
  The Meh: Multiplayer, single-player length
  
  The Bad: Graphics, gameplay, depthness and highly over-hyped
  
  The Ugly: STORY-BOARD CUTSCENES
 
  
  When Red Steel was first showed sometime before E3, it had all the hype Zelda had. Now here we 
 are, the finished product: Now nearly as good as expected.
  
  Red Steel starts with you, Scott Monroe, going out on a nice date with your new fianc&eacute;, 
 Miyu. When you're about to meet Miyu's father, Sato, all hell breaks loose as some other japanese 
 gang tries to kill Sato to take a sword called the Katana-Giri. Then you learn that Sato is a leader 
 of a japanese gang. So he gives you, a gaijin (outlander or something of the like) the Katana-Giri, 
 an item of honor among Japanese gangs. So now you use the sword to convince other japanese gangs 
 to take down the gang that tried to kill Sato and find your kidnapped fianc&eacute;. Nice story 
 isn't it? Too bad you might not have the patience this game forces you to endure.
  
  So let's start with gameplay, you use the wiimote to point at the screen for aiming, the nunchuk 
 supports reloading, action, throwing grenades, jumping and crouching. You use the wiimote for aiming, 
 shooting, 'force mode' (slow down time and zoon in on a target, or just zooming in) and controlling 
 your sword. The gunplay is fairly smooth, and you can duck and cover while the A. I. stupidly runs 
 up to you, but they could kill you easily if you're not aware of your surroundings. A nice little 
 gimmick is that you can twist the wiimote for handguns such as 'gangster style'. Now the swordplay, 
 highly clunky. You can dodge, counter, and block against an opponent in 1-on-1. The swordplay is 
 clunky because if you try to uppercut, if you don't do it correctly, it could translate into a 
 horizontal slice. A cool feature is the stop time or zoom mode. You activate it using the A button 
 and pick off your targets, now in time stop mode, time slows down and you can shoot a gun right 
 out of their hand.
  
  Right, graphics. The graphics in Red Steel are pretty bad, they somehow got a bad case of pre-render 
 right before the game was released. While the visual effects, such as water or explosions, are 
 pretty. Most guns have a realistic sheen to them, and look pretty real. Animations, did they spend 
 most of the time on this? Look at one video and yee can see that most are average, just average. 
 Cutscenes are storyboard cut-out, very bad.
  
  SOUND! Guns a-blazing, swords clashing and a very japanese eccentric soundtrack. Sound is definately 
 this game's strong suit. While points are taken off because of horrible voice acting. The japanese 
 accents sound exaggerated and unauthentic. The music is well-done, but some tracks could be weird 
 to most westeners who aren't familiar with japanese culture.
  
  Value: Pretty lengthy single-player, okay multiplayer, but you won't be coming back to this when 
 a better FPS comes out. Very shallow with unlockables.
  
  Tilt: I had some fun with this game, others might not be patient enough to deal with the gameplay. 
 Now just because I gave this game a low score, doesn't mean it's not fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-rpg-man
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 12, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Awesome control scheme. Cons: Graphics are dated. Sound is horrible and recycles VAs too 
 much. Many glitchy parts. Lame-o story. Sword battles seem dull
  
  Okay, this was supposed to be a great game. Almost everyone was looking forward to this game, but, 
 it seems Ubisoft rushed the production or something, because this is pretty horrible. I'll start 
 with the one good thing: the controls. People say they're hard, but I found them quite natural, 
 and very easy to get used to. But, that's the only good thing. The cut scenes look like a graphic 
 novel gone awry, and the graphics look awful. The majority of enemies have the same voice actors, 
 and even the black and Japanese enemies have the same white-sounding voices (sorry if that sounded 
 racist) . The weapon variety isn't that great, and all missions go through the same basic objective 
 formula. That's all I have to say about this game. Major letdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_Jarvo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 12, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Quite a while ago now, it was announced that Ubi-Soft would be bringing the first FPS to the Wii, 
 by the name of Red Steel. Needless to say, people were more than excited, using the Wii Remote 
 as both a sword and a gun? Sweet! they said. Then, the reviews started pouring in. And boy where 
 people confused. Some said it was excellent, a true step-up from the typical console FPS. Others 
 said the game was trash. Others said, it was good, but no where near perfect. In all honesty, after 
 playing this game, I just dont know what to think.
  
  At the beginning of Red Steel, everythings shiny and new; the graphics look crisp and the controls 
 are responsive and the game generally feels pretty solid. We all knew the controls would have a 
 bit of a learning curve, and the game guides you nicely through a simple tutorial, and then throws 
 you into some simple gun-based and sword-based combat in order to allow you to get a feel for the 
 new control scheme. So far so good. But, as the game progresses, things begin deteriorate.
  
  For some reason which I will never understand, the controls seem to get WORSE as you go along. 
 Its like with every level theyve put some sort of veil over the sensor bar preventing your motions 
 from being read properly. During the Waste Disposal Plant level, my aim would go all over the place 
 for no apparent reason, and my sword swings wouldnt even be acknowledged. In fact, the sword fights 
 were so frustrating that I nearly threw my Wii Remote to the floor.
  
  Another example of the progression problems Ive thus far encountered with Red Steel is the graphical 
 side of things. Everythings gone blocky, and the frame-rate seems to constantly die whenever I 
 fire my gun with more than 2 enemies on screen. In fact, at one point when I fired my gun, the 
 game actually froze for a second. I know visuals arent everything, but its just ridiculous.
 
  
  But dont worry, all is not lost!
  
  Yes, Red Steel has its technical problems and yes, some of them can make the game more or less 
 unplayable, but as frustrated as any of us get with the game, we simply cannot deny that it is 
 genuinely fun, which is what the Wii is all about. There are over-the-top explosions, some nifty 
 gun-fights and heck, the earlier sword-fights are pretty damn cool. The multi-player is generally 
 great as well, especially with four people (Although, the mode where you get objectives shouted 
 at you through the speaker is more or less impossible if youve got the volume on your TV any higher 
 than low) . Some of the lighting effects are top-notch as well, and the graphics at the beginning 
 are really, really good.
  
  Red Steel is a decent game, but only if you can overlook the problems it has. In all honesty, if 
 you want to make the most of the game, grab 4 Wii Remotes, 4 Nunchucks, 3 Friends and a crate of 
 beer. Then, youll see what Red Steel is all about; forget the respect, forget the sword-fights, 
 just get drunk and have a good time unleashing a shotgun into a friends face. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thaneyates16
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the best frist person shoters we have palyed on and i recomed ANY good gamer to 
 buy this it all good but some of the bots are dumn and just run past you and gept going. this is 
 just a game you have to play on for def. and there is a bit in the game where you go thought this 
 realy hard shot out the theres this vid that u cant pass on it just stays there.
  a game that you must buy for all the games that you do you should buy this one and zelda the game 
 play for this is good, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capcom49
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 12, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  Too Easy! The WII remote is not that accurate, I found myself glitching here and there. But the 
 biggest upset of all had to be that there was no bonus. No replay value! Unlimited ammo, or a special 
 weapon like a lazer sword or special gun would be nice. The graphics were not that bad but the 
 sounds and music had to be used over and over. This go's for the maps too. But I see this game 
 as a test, a sample of games to come. But last word on this game... Not worth paying full price, 
 its a game inwhich you'll either have collecting dust or you'll some day sell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaceTheShado
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 11, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Well, needless to say i thought this was gonna be great, oh boy was I wrong, let me tell you what 
 happend at first, ok so I got my wii right and I got Loz: tp / Redsteel , and boy is Loz fun, best 
 in the series , but Redsteel, which I thought would be pretty fun to, but it... oh boy, let me explain, 
 first when you get into the game your thinking well not bad...
  
  Shooting: Awkward in a sence, a little difficult, but can get use to.
  Sword Fighting: This I 
 was thinking ooohh yea... but its only at bosses , and the controls for the sword are horrible, 
 it feels like you have no control over your sword
  Ai: Wow, many a time, I see random guys running into walls and shooting at the walls, not at me.
 
  Game Experiance: Overall this game was a big letdown to me, I was hoping for some great gameplay 
 here, and I didnt really get it, if anyone is thinking on getting this game I would wait till the 
 price drops to at least $30, before picking this up.. its ok for the first 30 minutes, then after 
 that its just, horrible.
  
  Positive Side: I heard there going to be making a redsteel 2, lets hope they dont make the same 
 mistakes they made in this one, so that we can get the gameplay we want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spixter534
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  I bought Red Steel the same day as i got my wii, i don't personally care that much for the ratings 
 by Gamespot, or anywhere else, for that matter. at first this game is, WOW, you'd think that point 
 and click would work well. its not that it doesn't, but aiming is difficult if you are used to 
 the normal controller layout. this game definatly showcases what the wii is about, being easy for 
 those who are ready, and being difficult for those that aren't. afte about an hour or so into Red 
 Steel, you start not having a problem with the controller. after playing this for two days, my 
 friend challenged me to a game of Halo, i lost dearly.
  
  i guess what im trying to say is that this game is difficult to start playing. get used to the 
 wii before you play this game, or use this game to get good at the wii. the only slighty annoying 
 thing about this game is the comic-book style cuscenes, its not that i don't appreciate them, its 
 that it jumps from those and actual cutscenes quite randomly.
  
  get this game for a challange. but make sure to play wii sports, or another wii game before challenging 
 the yazuka in Red Steel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxDaRkNiNjAxX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 11, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  The game is very good. Although, there are a bunch of glitches with the gun play. The multiplayer 
 is probably the best part about this game. Story mode is fun but honestly doesnt make ANY sense 
 of what is going on! It is easy to find your way through the levels but if you have a weak arm, 
 this is NOT the game for you!! Now to use up 100 words, rent this game and if you like it, buy 
 it but some people might not like this game
  
  still not at 100 words so
  h
  e
  y
  
  w
  u
  t
  s
  
  u
  p
  ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: power81005
Rating: 6.4
Date: Dec 11, 2006 12:12 am PT
Review:  This game just didnt turn out to be what I thought it was. After seeing trailers for it long before 
 the Wii released, I said to myself this is the game I have to have, however after playing it 
 fell short of what I had expected. Red Steel starts you off talking to your girlfriend about meeting 
 her father. Shortly after, you start on a manhunt to return her after being kidnapped. In the beginning 
 the controls seem a little overwhelming as you try to remember everything you can do. After a while 
 it seems a little repetitive. The game as has no actual animated cut-scenes. Rather you see a still 
 or sliding image as you hear them talk. The AI in this game however is something you have to see 
 to believe. Enemies taking fire will duck, hide, turn tables and try to sneak around just to pop 
 off a few shots at you. The gun can be held sideways or straight up, depending on how you hold 
 the Wii-mote, but I found the remote to be a little jumpier and less accurate when held sideways. 
 The sword fights were cool because you had to parry with the nunchuk and swing your sword with 
 the wii-mote but they quickly got boring and repetitive as you progressed through the game.
  
  Multiplayer is based on the same style of game play as the single player with variations on 
 the conditions of winning. You could have up to four people battling it out in areas of the game 
 you had already progressed through with costumes including a guy in a dinosaur costume and a super-hero.
 
  
  All in all this game is not as good as the trailers made it out to be, but is definitely a starting 
 point for FPSs in the future. Its worth playing but perhaps not at the 50$ price tag. Wait for 
 it to drop before picking up a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreamerdude26
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 10, 2006 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Everywhere I go I see the reviews that say that Red Steel is mediocore, Red Steel doesn't live 
 up to all the hype, Red Steel plain suck's ass. Well, it really doesn't live up to the hype and 
 it isn't really an amazing game but it doesn't give developers something to start on when creating 
 their own FPS for the Wii. Control:
  As soon as I started playing and moving around I said Woah , I thought it was the coolest thing 
 in the world. For the most part the controls work for me with very minor hiccups. After a few hours 
 of getting used to putting the curser to the edge of the screen to move It was easy as cake and 
 I was sliding around all over the place. Other reviews have complained about how slow the turning 
 can be but I found it to be just right, not to fast or to slow, about the same as most console 
 shooters. The A. I. never really seemed to be the morons most people talked about, they take cover 
 when needed and sometimes they will make a suicide run but hey, it's all good fun and that's what 
 it's all about. Sword fighting I thought was awesome, I always felt like I was right there, I love 
 blocking and then pulling off some awesome combo only to break his sword and have him bow to me 
 and beg for mercy.
  
  Graphics:
  Sometimes this game can be a very good looking game, probably high end x-box in my opinion. Sometimes 
 though, you run into an elevator and think that our back into the ps1 era, but then you step out 
 and realize it was only a brief nightmare. There are very few parts where I was saying Damn, this 
 game is **** ugly. The neon lights look very cool and really add to the scenery once you get to 
 japan. The character models seem to have this white ring around there shoulders sometimes as if 
 to give them some kind of stylistic look but it's not really pulled of that well but can sometimes 
 look pretty cool.
  
  Sound:
  The music for the most part is decent, ranging from japanese rock, this same guitar that plays 
 everytime you get into a gun fight (when is just about all of the time) and the calm soothing sounds 
 of the dojo for when you want to train and learn new moves. The voice acting can at times, well 
 a lot of the times can be plain terrable, either its people badly impersinating japanese or japanese 
 that dont know how to speak english. It can be like pouring acid in your ears at times but after 
 a while you get used to it and are just waiting to get into the next area to start shooting again.
 
  
  Overall:
  The game is fairly short, most people beating it in about 8 hours and no difficulty setting so 
 most people will probobly never play through it again unless they really dont have anything else 
 to do. It's a pretty decent game, no a complete catastophy but it could have been much better had 
 it not been rushed. Play it once, play it again if you have the need to cut more people down. If 
 you have a Wii you should try it at least once to see where most First Person shooters are going 
 to stem from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Rofler
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 10, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  Number one thing: Underated
  
  This game is miles ahead of the pathetic 5.5 it recieved from GS. IGN gave it 6.0 which is also 
 an underating. Many of the problems described just dont exist for me! For example, slow turning? 
 Well yeah if you ae holding down the A button the entire time. Bland textures? At times but who 
 gives a damn. I find Red Steel to be a fun gaming experience and worthy of your time. The Single 
 Player has a decent enough life to keep you busy and multiplayer adds that extra layer of life 
 time.
  
  Gameplay - First and foremost, YES the controls do take getting used to. At first you will likely 
 be stumbling around like an idiot but before long you will be doing fine, all you have to do is 
 stick with it. The lock on system adds a much needed and helpful dynamic and really its just fine 
 gameplay all around. I suppose due to the Wii some people will either grasp this new gameplay quickly 
 and some will have a hard time at first. Myself I got used to it after about an hour of play, so 
 I did ok. Sword wise no they dont exactly match your movements but they are close enough and unless 
 you are having serious trouble the sword fighting is alot of fun and doesnt take much getting used 
 to, enjoyable stuff.
  
  Graphics - Dont walk in expecting FEAR graphics, please. The graphics are about that of the Gamecube 
 or a bit above. This is FINE, the graphics are fine as they are. Yes there are some bland textures 
 but the levels vary and the textures are easy enough to ignore so graphics wise it does fine.
 
  
  Sound - This game sounds a charm. From gun shots to explosions to even putting on body armor its 
 all here and all brilliant, no complaints really. The only thing is some of the voice acting can 
 be to overdone but thats quite easy to push off.
  
  Other - Storywise Ill say simply this: Not as bad as you may have read. When it comes to AI they 
 do ok, sometimes they will act quite stupid but all around they do the job and do sneek up on you 
 sometimes adding that extra flavour. Complaints - No game is perfect, Red Steel is no different. 
 There is the lack of bots in Multiplayer and the lack of maps, there is no blood which despite 
 all the debates does take away from the experience a bit, and also the cut scenes although stylish 
 just dont cut it. Real time is more immersive and just all around better, so that needs some work.
 
  
  So thats about it. An enjoyable game that is worth your time and I think most people can enjoy. 
 It makes fine work of the Wii remote and nunchuck, and Im enjoying the game very much.
  
  For those that dont like this game then to me you are missing out. Yeah it has problems but even 
 so Im enjoying the hell out of it. Please do keep in mind its a first gen Wii FPS title so things 
 can only get better.
  
  Have fun playing Red Steel and thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smit5334
Rating: 3.1
Date: Dec 9, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is just painful. Its such a great concept.
  
  Wield a sword and a gun with the Wii Remote! How cool does that sound?
  
  Reality is far different. 
 The controls are sensitive to the point of unusability. The aiming is almost impossible. To offset 
 this, the game has increased the size of the hitbox for a target so much that within the same state 
 is pretty descriptive. Your gun also seems to have a mind of its own. I have found the pistol pointing 
 in directions that share nothing with the way the Wiimote is pointed or held. No other games exhibit 
 this behavior.
  
  The sword, although a great idea, is basically a swish until dead type thing.
  
  The graphics 
 are more reminicent of the Gamecube than the Wii. Sound is uninspired, but fine.
  
  The cutscenes are.... ummm.... pictures. Not rendered, just flat drawn images. Its just sad.
 
  
  If they can fix the control issues, the game would be a decent game. Not great, but could be fun. 
 Until they do, its not worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lal480
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 9, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  Red Steel is far being a Good Looking Game .
  In the first few levels, the cut-scenes look more like someone cut out some paper figurines and 
 moved them around on a -out-of-focus background.
  Later on it starts to look a little better, but it still fails to deliver a clear picture.
  The 
 actual world looks alright, but its definitely not Hi-Def Gameplay:
  From the Wii, can you expect anything less then great?
  Shooting can get a little tiring after 
 awhile, but what can you expect?
  The sword fighting is the best part though, it never gets tiring.
  There are so many moves to 
 use, that mastering them all would be quite a feat. Sound:
  It has voice acting.
  Thats all I can say, nothing else stands out. Multiplayer:
  Multiplayer is fun if you're playing 
 with people who know how to play the game. Its a hard game to learn, and teaching new people, isn't 
 much fun.
  Every gun that was in the single-player, is in the multi-player Value:
  Overall, I'm glad I bought Red Steel.
  As more first person shooters come out, I think red steel 
 will still stand out for the sword fighting, but nothing else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenzo287
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 8, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit the expectations I had for Red Steel were high. Maybe too high, like 9.0 high. But after 
 just playing several hours and getting into the whole swing of things it isn't that bad of a game.
 
  
  The gameplay is at first smoother than your vomit after winning a hot dog eating contest. Yes it 
 feels that bad, at first. After you realize Hey standing up hurts than you sit down and learn the 
 controls. The controls can later serve you well or give you Wii elbow. But suck it up theres some 
 intuitive control here! First the bad stuff: the sniper rifle. It's scope is awful, ET awful! But 
 in multi-player mode: it's worse, a lot worse! Now why do I give a game with so many bad things 
 an 8.2? Well because the controls can be a lot of fun after the initial hour or so.
  
  The opening missions are tough, the game is so tough that your character gets knocked out by a 
 yakuza waiter in disguise. After you get into Japan you learn some fun techniques that can help 
 you enjoy the game a lot more. The only problem is the save points. They decide when to save your 
 game and you can't. The game saves after every mission and during the little breaks in between 
 some of the missions.
  
  The swordplay is well crafted but sometimes unresponsive. There are two secret attacks that you 
 learn throughout the game. The first is the hammer attack in which both katanas strike your opponent 
 dealing major damage to his sword.
  
  The graphics are improved from E3, judging from trailers and video, but still lack my expectations. 
 After you start to notice the little details you can apperciate the graphics a little more than 
 when you first started. The explosion effects are beautiful. I tell you there is nothing more satisfying 
 that taking a grenade and throwing it up on a balcony with explosives behind him and BOOM he's 
 dead, there's well crafted smoke up above and dust falling onto the ground.
  
  The sound is allright. The music tracks are good and the use of Wiimote speaker is lacking. I expected 
 there to be a sound per shot thing where you hear every bullet come out of your wiimote, then I 
 remind myself how much batteries cost and quit complaining.
  
  The replay value is hindered by unimpressive multi-player modes. Standard deathmatch is accompanied 
 by a team version and killer mode. A mysterious voice calls your cell phone (you answer by pressing 
 2) and then she tells you your objective. After that it's your job to carry it out. Trust me it 
 sounds better on paper than in reality. A tip for this mode is to make sure you know what character 
 each player is before the match starts and to set your wiimote speakers on a low level so noone 
 else hears your objective.\
  
  This game is a bunch of good ideas but poorply executed. With no online, a missing multi-player 
 mode that was shown in the recently released trailer, and  
 loading times, Red Steel is unimpressive, but with an intuitive control scheme, intriguing story, 
 and beautiful artwork throughout the game it's definitely worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nayrzurc
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 7, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the good games I have right now. The controls are pretty hard to control but 
 it's pretty realistic, although slashing the opponent is only limited to a measly three ways, unlike 
 Zelda: Twilight Princess, in which you can slash more ways than in this game. I liked the motions 
 you have to do to grab or do certain things. The controls need a getting used to but is fun nonetheless. 
 The sounds are good. It changes as you move closer to a certain place and it adds suspense. The 
 graphics, well it's okay. We all know that the Wii has average leveled graphics than its other 
 Next-gen competitors, so the graphics are not like PS3 or X-Box 360 but the graphics are more like 
 PS2 or an X-Box. Even though the graphics are average, the cut-scenes are pretty creative in my 
 opinion, even though you might think they're just a bunch of pictures pieced up together like a 
 collage. The game-play only has one difficulty and you get up each time you finish a level. The 
 computer is a challenge to kill because they will use anything on the way to hide from you. As 
 I said, the game-play needs a getting used to, so it might be hard to target an opponent, but you 
 can lower the sensitivity so it doesn't move as much as you want it to. You can also use the Auto-target 
 feature to make things easier but it makes it a little bit too easy and unrealistic. This game 
 is a good game to pull out when you want to play in two player mode. If playing by yourself, after 
 finishing the game, you might put it away for a few weeks, then you might start missing the thrill 
 and excitement that you felt playing this game. Even though it's only in normal difficulty, it's 
 not very hard to play the game overall. This game is great if you are an expert or you take a liking 
 on shooting games. This game is great in my opinion so I think you should buy it, or if my review 
 does not convince you, try and see if you can borrow Red Steel from Blockbuster or on other video-game 
 rental stores and see if it's worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 7, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel
  1 player for the Main Story
  2-4 player mode for deathmatches, etc.
  Developed by Ubisoft
  T (Teen) Rated
  
  Pros:
  +Wii exclusive
  +Brand New Franchise (It's 
 not a sequel to anything)
  +Beautiful Graphics, the best I have seen for the Wii as of launch
  +Gun Fighting uses the wiimote 
 pointer for quicker targeting
  +10-15 hours of gameplay for the main story alone
  +Missions can be replayed (to get a higher rank) for added replay value
  +Multiplayer Deathmatches 
 if you're into that
  +Sword Fighting, though a bit rough at first, can be very enjoyable and rewarding once you figure 
 it out
  +Quite a few guns to play with such as a sniper Rifle and Shotgun
  +Plot actually has a surprising twist to it closer to the end and isn't as completely shallow as 
 one might think at first
  +Checkpoints let you restart at the most recent event or area without having to go through everything 
 all over again
  +A lot of objects are destructible. Cars for example can explode if shot enough
  
  Cons:
 
  -Controls sometimes glitch, it usually doesn't cause any problems when your fighting but it is 
 something that you just notice occasionally.
  -Sword figthing takes some getting used to as it has a lot to do with timing and you actually have 
 to go slower than what you think you should. Obviously you can't just swing like a madman.
  -Some of the controls/ moves you can do are not as clearly explained as they should have been. 
 A more in depth tutorial of somesort would have helped, with maybe demonstrations you can watch 
 of someone else doing the move on video? Example would be the ability to freeze-time and supposedly 
 tag enemies; I never was able to do it and I was still able to beat the game. My ranks are pretty 
 low though.
  -Only one type of grenade in the game and I usually forgot I ever had them! They actually are useful 
 but I think it would have been better if they were treated like a gun rather than using the d-pad 
 down button to use them which required some effort to pull off cause you also had to aim the grenade 
 with the wiimote as well as make a throwing motion with the nunchuk. Would have been nice to have 
 some other types of grenades.
  -Nothing extra to look for in the levels that I am aware of (excluding the vest or ammunition)
 
  -Some minor slowdown in the strangest places. Rather than getting slowdown when there's a billion 
 enemys on screen I usually only saw it in specific vacant areas for some reason, maybe the game 
 was loading while I was going through that area?
  -Checkpoints are not the same as saving your game. The game only actually saves when you completely 
 finish a level. Most levels took around an hour to beat.
  -No blood presumably because they wanted the T rating which is understandable but I always hear 
 people complaining about it (you barbarians) .
  
  What would make this game better:
  *Maybe change from first-person to third-person view (over the shoulder like Leon in RE4) and add 
 a quick-turn-around button
  *Video animations rather than still-shot animations between levels
  *More in-depth tutorial with 
 video demonstrations
  *Develop different swords and combos to compliment whats already there
  *Add some treasures in 
 the game to look for
  *Use the Joystiq for movement and hold down the Z button for strafing instead of using the pointer 
 for turning. The pointer in my opinion should just be used for aiming only.
  *Go ahead and make it a M (Mature) rated game and add blood and whatever else the barbarians want 
 j/k.
  
  Final Thoughts: I am not a FPS (First-Person Shooter) gamer so I didn't have any problems with 
 the control setup. The spinning of the screen happens when you've aimed the pointer off-screen. 
 That should have been fixed so that if the Wii-pointer goes off screen the game should pause or 
 pop up a message saying please point remote at the screen like Zelda Twilight Princess does. Regardless 
 the spinning stops once you point back at the screen. All these little flaws are just minor and 
 are usually easily corrected just a lot of gamer like to be perfectionist so that's why you're 
 going to hear so much complaining about it. If you can get over the flaws of this game it is actually 
 kind of fun sniping enemies and watching them fall-over into weird ragdoll positions before they 
 magically dissappear. Also, the sword fighting is actually fun once you get the hang of deflecting 
 the enmey and doing combos. Personally I feel like this game is a good start to a new franchise 
 it just really needs to be developed more. With signs pointing towards a sequel the future looks 
 bright for Red Steel despite its woes. I hope my review was helpful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bofe1234
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 6, 2006 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel is one of those games that shows a lot of promise, but comes up a little short in the 
 long run. that being said red steel is in no way a terrible game, it just has some flaws (and believe 
 me theyre noticable) that make the game not as good as you think it would be
  
  Red steel shows tremendous promise in all areas. i just think it needed to be fine tuned a little 
 more.
  
  Sound: The sound *sighs*.... well lets just say not great. the cheesy one liners almost seem put 
 in on purpose and i laughed everytime. the voice acting is great, its just the dialogue is terrible. 
 but the guns all sound athentic and its sound effects are done very well. but all in all the adio 
 is not very rememberable.
  
  graphics. Red steels graphics are very average. this is no Gears of War and its not trying to be. 
 the characters have this cut out look to them which is sort of annoying but overall the models 
 are pretty well done. the ragdoll physics is also appreciated and the destructable environments 
 are a plus. the cutscenes are however horrible. they are these stupid comic cut out crap that frankly 
 are more annoying than special. i would like to think they were trying to be artistic but its not 
 good. i did notice the framerate did chug sometimes and one particular time it was so bad i thought 
 it was running on a Mac. seriously it chuged so badly i thought my tv froze. but that happens rarely
 
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay in red steel is sort of a let down. the game is so cool and if they would 
 have perfected it. it would have been such a great shooter. but the main flaw is the controls. 
 you can adjust them but that doesnt really do much. they are buggy and uninspired. you have to 
 slide the cursor to the up left right down of the screen if you want to turn and it just feels 
 clunky
  
  IMPORTANT** although initially the controls were very lackluster, after you learn the game is a 
 BLAST. it is quite fun and that is where the game shines. i often found myself smiling and laughing 
 once i blew up a barrel and the bodies ragdolled in the air. if your a person who is new to gaming. 
 DONT GET THIS GAME I REPEAT DONT GET THIS GAME. it is simply to clunky. but if you are an avid 
 fps player and want an alright experience RENT THIS GAME I REPEAT RENT THIS GAME. you may really 
 like it. it is actually fun for the most part. it jsut has some problems that need to be fixed.
 
  
  Value: the game can be completed in around 6-15 hours. its not particularly long but if you are 
 inexperienced it may take a while. the multiplayer is a skip. its not very fun and it really has 
 no redeaming value. ITS DEFINETLY A RENTAL. i rented it beat it and felt i had exprerienced it 
 all. but if you really have to have it go for it. its not that bad.
  
  Tilt. i came into this game very optimistic. overall its more than expected. it is genually a fun 
 game if you give it a chance. sure it has its flaws and sure there are some aspects that are inexcusable. 
 but this title has some redeaming qualities and has more bad than good. if your looking for an 
 epic fps. you will be disapointed. if your new to gaming youll be turned off by the dificulty. 
 but if you go into the experience with an open mind and with optimism than you will like it. I 
 STRONGLY ADVISE YOU TO RENT THIS GAME. NOT BUY RENT. IT IS WORTH CHECKING OUT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simian92
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 6, 2006 10:28 pm PT
Review:  I bought Red Steel the same day as i got my wii, i don't personally care that much for the ratings 
 by Gamespot, or anywhere else, for that matter. at first this game is, WOW, you'd think that point 
 and click would work well. its not that it doesn't, but aiming is difficult if you are used to 
 the normal controller layout. this game definatly showcases what the wii is about, being easy for 
 those who are ready, and being difficult for those that aren't. afte about an hour or so into Red 
 Steel, you start not having a problem with the controller. after playing this for two days, my 
 friend challenged me to a game of Halo, i lost dearly.
  
  i guesss what im trying to say is that this game is difficult to start playing. get used to the 
 wii before you play this game, or use this game to get good at the wii. the only slighty annoying 
 thing about this game is the comic-book style cuscenes, its not tha i don't appreciate them, its 
 that it jumps from those and actual cutscenes quite randomly.
  
  get this game for a challange. but make sure to play wii sports, or another wii game before challenging 
 the yakuza in Red Steel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jACkaTacK1107
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 6, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  Let me first start out by saying that I bought this game AFTER I read all the mediocre reviews 
 on it. Also, I am someone who generally listens to critics too much, and believe almost anything 
 they say. So it was a bold move on my part to go get this game, but man am I glad I did!
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  
  The game doesn't waste time getting the action started up. After about a 30 
 sec. tutorial on how to move and look around and a 2 min. cutscene, the suspense is built and you 
 already have a gun in your hands. This was great, because I don't like spending 15-20 min. on some 
 god-for-saken training course that teaches you everything immediately and expect you to remember 
 it all later. Instead, the game teaches you how to do new things as you gradually progress through 
 the game. For example, there are some sword moves that you can't do until you're through 60% of 
 the game. The gun play is very fast-paced, although not quite up to that coveted Call of Duty like 
 intensity, but I think with this control scheme, it's for the better. There are a wide variety 
 of guns to choose from, ranging from pistols and Uzi's, to shotguns, assault rifles and sniper 
 rifles. If there was one thing to critize about the gunplay, it would be the relativly stupid AI. 
 A lot of the time the enemies take cover, they will leave 10-20% of their body still exposed, leaving 
 you a completely open shot. This isn't that bad however, because if the AI was any smarter, the 
 game would be a little too difficult.
  The swordplay is a complete blast at first, but gets a little repetative towards the end of the 
 game. It is very satisfying swinging the Wii Remote and seeing your enemies get the snot beaten 
 out of them. It's not perfect however, because your sword movements lag a little bit behind your 
 actual movements with the Wii Remote. But all in all, the swordplay is a lot of fun, very unique, 
 and a great way to show off the Wii to your friends.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  
  Red Steel's graphics are for the most part, outstanding for the Wii. This game boasts the best 
 lighting effects of any of the Wii launch titles, the environments looks nicely fresh and authentic, 
 the environments are destructable, and the explosions are downright GORGEOUS. However, it doesn't 
 look so hot in some areas, especially the characters themselves. They look rather generic and forgetable. 
 But these shortcomings don't bring down the overall score by much, because again, these lighting 
 effects are outstanding, the enivronments are destructable, and the explosions are f-ing AMAZING!
 
  
  Sound 8/10
  
  The sound in the game is good for the most part. Most of the guns sound great, but a few just seem 
 to lack that sound you would expect from a gun capable of decapitating someone with a headshot, 
 especially the sniper rifle. If there was one area in the sound that truely shined, it would be 
 the music. This soundtrack is outstanding, and it really immerses you into the action. Another 
 strong point of the audio is the sword sound effects. They sound very real and authentic. The main 
 thing that brings the score down here is that some parts of the audio are a little buggy. On rare 
 occasion, some random sound effects wont play for a short period of time. But this is rare and 
 only minor, so all in all, the sound in this game is very good.
  
  Value 9/10
  
  I gave this section a 9/10 mainly because I'm someone who hates spending 49.99 on games. I understand 
 that this is the price of all the launch titles (minus Wii Sports) , but to me 50 bucks is a lot 
 of money. However, I am very glad that I decided to fork over the money for this game. Hopefully 
 you will too.
  
  Overall 8.6 - Great
  
  Anyone who loves shooters, and has the patience to master the controls will probably love Red Steel 
 
  
  P. S. - The controls are a little difficult and take about an hour to get the hang of, and some 
 people who bought this game don't like it, so if you can't decided, give it a rent first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VirginFingers
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 5, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  I was hyped about this game, it looked like a great game for launch, and I think it some ways it 
 still is. However, it wasn't the game I was hoping for, and I think alot of people feel the same 
 way.
  
  When I first started it I really had trouble controlling my guy, but after about a half hour I 
 got better. Honestly they (GS Staff) make it sound like the controls are impossible, they aren't 
 at all. I was doing fine after a halfhour, using the wii-mote and nunchuck actually started feeling 
 really great.
  
  I liked the comic book type cutscenes, I thought it aded alot of character to the game. I also 
 think the action was quite good, and the fact that the music changed was a nice touch.
  
  The thing I really loved was shooting cars and having the explode and kill the people around them, 
 that was always alot of fun. The explosions actually looked very good in my opinion, and added 
 some tactical advantages to some firefights.
  
  Now to the parts that dissapointed me. First, the comments the bad guys made where pretty lame, 
 they said a total of like 3 things and it got annoying after a while. If you only have 3 things 
 to say, why do you have every enemy say one of them every 4 seconds? So that irritated me, but 
 I could overlook it.
  
  The grenades where really hard for me to get a handle on, maybe it's just me but I could hardly 
 aim them and the rolling or overhand throw thing never worked. I usually ended up killing myself 
 cuz my grenade went in the wrong direction and bounced off a wall and came right back to me and 
 killed me.
  
  The A. I was also just plain awful, enemies getting stuck and just standing there not doing anything 
 as u walk past them.
  
  But the final game crushing issue was the glitch with aiming. Every few seconds my aiming dot would 
 suddenly jerk to the center of my screen, and it also stopped my movement. It made the game almost 
 impossible to play, because every 3 seconds my aiming would jerk to the center of the screen, it 
 was totally unpredictable.
  
  I tried using a different Tv, backing up, changing sensitivity, nothing helped, and since it doesn't 
 happen on any of my other games, it has to be this game, not my system. I ended up selling redsteel 
 back to gamestop for $24.
  
  I think if it wasn't for this aim flaw I'd have enjoyed it much more, but in the end it was dissapointing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ganondorf_002
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 4, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  I was a little bit insecure about his game when I see a 5.5 from GS and 6 from IGN, I thought that 
 the game was bad and this game is one I being waiting for Wii and I decide to commit suicide lol
 
  
  Here is my Red Steel Review:
  
  Gameplay:
  You will spend some time for learning how its work but after that the game will be more easy to 
 play. The game have some problems when you are moving the camera, the pointer is about 90% precise 
 a little bit complicated but they are great when you master them. The sword fight is a little bit 
 depressing at first, is not deep is too simple, hard and is a little bit buggy. With the Wii-Mote 
 this game is way better than with any other controller if you are looking for a FPS that use the 
 Wii-Mote wisely (for now) this is the one.
  Gamaplay 8/10
  
  Graphics:
  Sometimes this game is the best looking game on Wii but sometimes it look like or worst than the 
 Game Cube. The light effects are great and they look assume and the bullets hitting the wall, the 
 smoke are great. The Texture are just right and a annoying glowing light on the characters. My 
 biggest complain.... NO BLOOD, I mean there is not even sense that you are hitting a body come 
 on Ubisoft!!!
  Graphics 7/10
  
  Sound:
  The music is great and keep you in tension when shooting and relax you when there is no action. 
 The Wii-Mote speaker, there you will heard the reload and the when you hit the sword, it simple 
 but great (this not affect the final score) . Sound 9/10
  
  Overall:
  This game is not I was waiting for, but is a good game and you are going to have some fun with 
 it, great gameplay, good graphics and super sound (for Wii) . Sorry for not giving a Multi Player 
 review I don't have any other controllers.
  
  Final Score: 8.0-GREAT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthmatt
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 4, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  Fists of all, the GS review means nothing to this game. Some of the game play, and dialogue comments 
 do apply, but little else of what that guy said about this game does apply. One thing he said, 
 was that this game would have looked good on Gamecube two years ago, that is BS. The first couple 
 levels dont start out strong, but once you get to Japan, the visuals go into over drive. Maybe 
 he missed all the volumetric light that pours through the windows and fences. Or maybed all the 
 atmospheric smoke and fog effects. I know RE4 had them, but RS took that to the next level. Level 
 design and enemies were fun and challenging and once you get your lock on system it gets even better. 
 Yeah the sword fighting is kind of an odd addition, but I still had fun with it. All in all this 
 was a fun shooter. I am really picky about the games I buy, and even tough I bought this on launch 
 I was skeptical after reading the review from GS. But after playing it I can only think that the 
 reviewer just doesnt like shooters, at least on consols. He gave RS a knock for having a recharge 
 health system, but if you look at Halo or GOW they do the same thing. Also I know some will disagree, 
 but in a lot of areas this game (textures, effects) looks better than LOZ: TP, and yet it only got 
 a 6 on graphics and LOZ got a 9. Shame on you GS, I once trusted your reviews, now you have no 
 credibility in my eyes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pumpkinhead_27
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 4, 2006 6:11 am PT
Review:  Red Steel has gotten a lot of hype in the few days since it's launch along side the Wii, most of 
 which negative, and due to the constant flow of both good and bad reviews, simultaniously, one 
 after another, I decided against my better judgement to pick up and try out this game that has 
 gotten so many people talking, and I am sufisced to say that I was surprised with what I found. 
 The original premise of the game I found personally intriging, play an arcade style shooter in 
 your house, throw in some motion sensing sword fights and a Yakuza story line and how could you 
 go wrong? The problem, as with most bad or mediocre games, wasn't with the concept, but rather 
 with the execution, the variety of weapons available is nice and they all preform more or less 
 as different weapons; the motion sensor aim is a bit hit and miss, it works well enough but just 
 doesn't feel like the arcade shooters of old, the story isn't the greatest but then again shooters 
 aren't exactly known for their fantastic story lines, the story line is, as I see it, just a way 
 for the designers to work some sword fighting into the game wich, in itself, isn't as good as it 
 could have been. When rating this kind of game, one must remember that it is a launch title; sure 
 the developers haven't made the incredible innovative game that many thought they were making, 
 but the original hype for a successful motion sensing sword-fighting game may just have made the 
 let down of a mediocre one all the worse, the fact is that this game isn't as terrible as some 
 make it out to be, but it's also not as great as others say it is; It's an O. K. game that is fairly 
 entertaining, nothing more, nothing less.
  
  p. s. I would hope that, in seven months to a year or so, the developers might be able to refine 
 their attempt at a steller game and produce one that is truely so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dagangstapimp
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 3, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Red steel looks like a great game. i dont have it yet but look forward to getting. I have heard that 
 the game is very fun and everyone is telling me to get it. The graphics are not too great but the 
 innovation is great. Many people put this game down because of the graphics but i think this game 
 is one of the funnest games you will ever play. When i played the game i just said to myself Its 
 crazy how accurately on-screen movements are the same as your own hand .Just as i thought the game 
 should have been, you can do much more than hack and slash in this game. You can parry and block 
 and get pretty intricate as far as how you can conduct your fighting. I found out real fast the 
 benefits of learning to block, and you can even disarm your enemies if you parry at them in time. Other 
 than that this game is a great shooter game. Becoming proficient takes a little practice, but you 
 wouldnt expect to be able to sword fight in real life without training, would you? Im really 
 looking forward to learning more and more about combos and sword play tricks. In the end Red Steel 
 is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigerfan1993
Rating: 2.3
Date: Dec 3, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  I have only played Red Steel for about 5 hours at most, but it is enough to say that this game 
 is definetley not worth your money, not even to rent it. The contols in Red Steel are some of the 
 worst I have ever witnessed in my life. The frame rate can get down to the single digits at times. 
 The graphics are also a low point for this title. In the areas that I played, i could not even 
 tell where i was at some points. Whoever designed the levels is a complete idiot, there is a bird 
 sanctuary inside of a yakuza guns warehouse! So all-in-all, this is one of the worst titles I have 
 played in 2006. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Staryoshi87
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  Red Steel hasn't gotten the props it deserves from GS. Ok, so it's no Goldeneye of it's time (although 
 at times it reminds me of it) , but it does introduce some neat gameplay features. It takes quite 
 a long time to get the handling right, moreso than other Wii games, but once you figure it out, 
 it's actually quite enjoyable. A flick of the wrist to reload and open doors, pointand shoot interface, 
 unnavoidable sword fights, and a unique po-mo japan industrial setting make for an interesting 
 experience.
  The music in RS is my favorite aspect of the game. I think it adds to the fast-firing one vs all 
 action as well as accentuating whichever environment you may be in. For some reason it really hit 
 home with me.
  I would have to say the visuals are somewhat disappointing, about gamecube+ level, but I love the 
 quazi-destructible environments and overly-explosive vehicles.
  There's a split-screen multiplayer mode up to 4 players (no co-op unfortunately) , but don't try 
 it until you've become very familiar with the controls, or it will play rather wonky until you 
 do :) It is Goldeneye-esque, though, and does add to the value of the game. No online MP, but good 
 for a get-together.
  I'm borrowing this game from a friend, so I didn't even have to buy it :) but if I didn't have 
 that option I would make that purchase, I feel it's worth the 50 dollar price tag. Red Steel combines 
 fast-action, japanese yakuza tumoil ridden plot, a few annoying cutscenes and below-average voice 
 acting, somewhat innovative controls, and a great soundtrack to make for a reasonable gaming experience. 
 I put this one right up there as #2 behind Zelda. If you're looking for a second game, I recommend 
 Red Steel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juno54
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 1, 2006 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel is a first person shooter for the Wii. It involves (of course) shooting enemies and facing 
 certain ones off in duel matches with katanas. You play as Scott Monroe, a guy who was just about 
 to have a nice date with his new girlfriend until everything goes crazy. Her father is the leader 
 of one of the major Yakuza clans and now everyone is out to get him. Your girlfriend gets kidnapped 
 and it's up to you to save her. In order to shoot, you use the Wii remote to aim and fire your 
 gun while you use the nunchuck to move, reload, toss grenades, and open doors. It takes a little 
 while to get used to aiming freely with the Wii remote, but eventually you get the hang of it. 
 You'll learn how to sword fight against other Yakuza members which is somewhat ok, but not one 
 of the greatest parts of the game. The one good thing about this game is the A. I.. These enemies 
 can think really well and can kill you easily if you're not careful. As you progress through the 
 game you will learn new sword moves along the ability to slow down time when shooting enemies. 
 There are some glitches when comes to aiming since the game sometimes has a spasm. In short, Red 
 Steel does have some glitches/ bugs, and its like it or hate it game. Give it a rental, if you 
 don't like it then don't get it. If you do like it then get it. If they would have spent more time 
 on this game it probably would have possibly been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laff_out_loud
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  At first you may not like this game. But believe me.. after a while spent on your couch. (Feet) . 
 YOu will love this game. The story mode has such a great storyline to it and may i say, the environment 
 in beautiful. Multiplayer is also a VERY VERY FUN option. although its best at least 3-4 people. 
 TRUST ME, FIRST PERSON FANS, GUN FANS, TOKYO UNDERGROUND FANS,:) , and everybody WHO LOVES THE WIIMOTE, 
 Ups
  
  great control
  
  great sound quality, (including wii speaker)
  
  great storyline
  
  great multiplayer
  
  TOO MUCH TO LIST
  
  COns
  
  SOme parts 
 of this game, the graphics can suck really badly.
  
  Sensitiviy may be high for some people.
  
  NOT FOR BEGINNING WII PLAYERS.
  
  Sword fights 
 not all that great but still fun.
  
  Not a HUGE variety of guns. (THey include all the good ones though) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BVP16
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 1, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  If you like first person shooters buy this game! If you like first person shooters buy this game! If 
 you If you like first person shooters buy this game! like first person shooters buy this game! If 
 you like first person shooters buy this game! If you like first person shooters buy this game! If 
 you If you like first person shooters buy this game! like first person shooters buy this game! If 
 you like first person shooters buy this game! If you like first person shooters buy this game! If 
 you If you like first person shooters buy this game! like first person shooters buy this game! If 
 you like first person shooters buy this game! If you like first person shooters buy this game! If 
 you If you like first person shooters buy this game! like first person shooters buy this game! If 
 you like first person shooters buy this game! If you like first person shooters buy this game! If 
 you If you like first person shooters buy this game! like first person shooters buy this game! If 
 you like first person shooters buy this game! If you like first person shooters buy this game! If 
 you If you like first person shooters buy this game! like first person shooters buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Javrixx
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 1, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  Background:
  I bought this game when I bought my Wii on opening day. I remember seeing the trailer of the guy 
 moving the controller and the sword moving. I thought oh snap! That's awesome! Exactly what the 
 Wii's controller is designed for! And don't forget the part when the guy tilts the controller to 
 the side, making the gun tilt to the side (like how a real gangsta shoots his gun) . So I was pretty 
 damn excited for this game. I will say I was more excited for the swordfighting then anything...
 
  
  First impressions:
  After about 2 hours of gameplay with my cousin with Wii Sports (to get a feel for the new controller) 
 we busted out Red Steel. We were both pretty excited, we couldn't wait to sword fight each other! 
 Loading up the game we went to multiplayer (the in-game menu is horrible btw) and picked our characters. 
 This gave us a chance to master the controls and see how the game works...
  
  Controls - Wow, what a let down. Way too sensative. It took us almost a half hour just to learn 
 how to walk and look around at the same time. This isn't fault of the Wii Remote, it's the fault 
 of the game. Even after turning down sensativity it just doesn't feel natural. -1
  
  Shooting/Combat - Another let down. The controls are so pathetic we spent almost 20 minutes shooting 
 at each other until one of us died. So now we've been playing almost an hour and the game just 
 isn't looking good. -1
  
  Swordfighting - Oh wait.. THERE IS NONE IN MULTIPLAYER! Wow, the games biggest selling point (for 
 me) and it doesn't even have it on multiplayer. -1
  
  Graphics - I don't want to say horrible... but they are. I mean, they look pretty, but there is 
 just something about them that makes it look so fake. Reminds me of goldeneye on the N64, only 
 a bit worse. Now I'm not one for graphics anyway, so this isn't a major factor. 0
  
  Sound - Meh, I've heard better sounds from guns (half life, counter-strike) but it's not a big 
 deal. 0
  
  After an hour and half of playing multiplayer we decided to check out single player. Single player 
 is fairly better at first. It's a real easy tutorial, which is good. But even after playing for 
 over an hour multiplayer I still had trouble killing guys quickly. It's a good thing your health 
 automatically regenerates and I'm sure they put that in the game because of the poor controls.
 
  
  A note on swords, you don't get one. You only get to use your sword on mini-bosses or bosses. It's 
 so retarded. The biggest selling point for this game too. -1
  
  The sword fights are pathetic too. They're actually the worst part of this game. They're slow, 
 awkward, and lame. It's basically counter this and swing. Not exciting at all. -1
  
  This game has so many let downs and negative things about it. And I gave it a good chance. I came 
 here, looked at the forums and reviews and saw people giving it good reviews. Most people said 
 just keep playing, it gets better. Well guess what, it doesn't. I gave it over 4 hours of gameplay 
 and it sucks. The controls are so awful, again not because of the Wii. This is a horrible game, 
 I've heard they already got rid of the staff that made this.
  
  What I don't understand is all the positive reviews people are giving it. Under rated ? You've 
 got to be kidding me. I think people just want to defend them wasting $50. Well after 3 days with 
 this game I traded it in for another Wii game and ate $20 in the process. It was worth it though, 
 I'll never play this again.
  
  My advice, I HIGHLY recommend you rent this first. If you're a fan of FPS like me, you'll be very 
 dissapointed. Wait for better first person shooters to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OddballTECH
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 5, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  Ubisoft's Red Steel was one of the Wii's most highly anticipated games. You play the role of Scott, 
 a man who simply tries to go on a date with his girl friend, when everything goes horribly wrong. 
 All of a sudden, a rival gang forces their way into the restaurant with guns blazing, and it is 
 your job to protect yourself. Throughout the remainder of the game, you will find yourself taking 
 cover behind tables, pushing your way through enemy infested areas, and destorying almost everything 
 in your path along the way.
  
  The one thing that I was really woried about before I purchased the game was the graphical quality. 
 Looking at some of the internet screnshots and videos, Red Steel looks jagged and out of focus. 
 But the truth is, it looks much better on a big screen TV than in a tiny internet screenshot. Although 
 the graphics may not compare to games on the 360 or the PS3, they are nothing to really have a 
 fit over. They aren't great, but they aren't too bad either. A lot of the environments actually 
 look quite good at times.
  
  Digging deeper into Red Steel's graphics, I enjoyed a lot of the effects. For one thing, the damage 
 modeling is really awesome. Stray bullets will find their way to precious class artifacts, neon 
 lights, cooking utensils, and pretty much anything that gets in you path of fire. I especially 
 liked the shattering neon lights, because it looks really nice when sparks are flying everywhere, 
 and it is pretty colorful and impressive at times. The lighting is nothing special most of the 
 time, but there are some noticeable qualities. I remember going though one level, and I came upon 
 a door with tiny square holes in it. There were shafts of light shining through each hole, and 
 I thought that it was pretty impressive and detailed. So in short, th graphics wont dazzle you, 
 but they are still pretty good.
  
  A few of the game's most pressing problems deal with the AI and the aiming system. The AI is kind 
 of mindless at times; they often run right into you and you are forced to get into a close range 
 gun battle. Most of the time, the enemies will take cover, but you can simply run right up to them 
 and tak them out with one blast from the shotgun. Sure, I have seen worse AI..., much worse in 
 fact, but I think that with better AI, the gameplay could have improved quite a bit. There were 
 countless complaints about Red Steel's aiming system. I heard that it was to sensitive, jumpy..., 
 all kinds of stuff. When I played the game, I really did not have much trouble with the controls, 
 and neither did any of my friends. Then again, we were fairly used to the Wii mote after playing 
 Wii Sports for hours on end. What I am trying to say is that if you are not familiar with the Wii-mote, 
 then Red Steel might be tough at first. But if you play for a while, you will see that the aiming 
 system really isn't that bad. Sure, sometimes the camera moves too slowly with the gun, but that 
 is due to the player controlling the character's arm instead of his entire body. The aiming doesn't 
 function quite like the average FPS game.
  
  Sound is not one of Red Steel's strong points, but does it really kill you to hear some bad Japanese 
 voice overs? Many games such as Dynasty Warriors also have some pretty bad voice acting. (ex. Guan 
 Shu, you have deceived me!!! ) I can understand why the game got some points off for sound. But 
 a many of the other sounds are fairly well done. The guns sound great most of the time, and pretty 
 much everything that you shoot at has its own unique ricochet sound effect. Personally, I expected 
 better from Ubisoft, but its not too bad.
  
  As far as gameplay goes, Red Steel falls into the rent it first category for me. Some people will 
 really enjoy playing through the missions, while others will frown at the game and say that its 
 terrible. The missions are fairly entertaining, but get pretty repetitive after a while. And now 
 for the swordplay: Its fun at first, but after a while it just seems a bit basic. There are only 
 3 sword moves: left to right slash, up and down slash, and the nearly impossible stab move. I really 
 wish they would have done more with the sword fighting in order to make it seem more purposeful. 
 After all, th game is called Red Steel.
  
  Overall, Red Steel is an entertaining, but repetitive game with some very noticeable problems. 
 Some people love the fact that you can actually move around, and that the game didn't play like 
 Time Crisis. I for one was glad that the game isn't short like Time Crisis. Despite some of the 
 problems with the aiming and graphics, there is some god to be seen in this game. It was the first 
 first-person shooter on the Wii, and I think that it deserves some credit for trying something 
 new. I know that this game needs a lot of work, but to tell you the truth, I would be excited if 
 they decided to make a sequel to Red Steel. I think that with some improvements, the game could 
 actually be a lot of fun. So bottom line, rent it first, and if you like it, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spike3oOo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 11, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel has an intresting history, it was the first offical annonced game for the Wii and it 
 also was an intresting departure for Ubisoft. Not only is the game an exclusive for the Nintendo 
 Wii (something ubisoft usually doesnt do) but also it has a very Japanese style to the game. Well 
 now the game is out along side the brand new Nintendo Wii console, but the gaming community has 
 reviewed this sleeper, forgotten game horribly. Read on to find out what I think.
  
  Graphically its one of the better looking games of the Wii launch. This is not to say that it looks 
 as good as you would expect a Next Gen game to look. Nor does the game look as good as the games 
 press release photos. But as far as the standards for launch games on the Wii it has the best looking 
 enviorments, some nice looking heat, amazing explosions, and decent charecter models.
  
  The Gameplay is a mixed bag at first, with frustrating controls, and wonky response time. However 
 within time you will learn to master the controls, and get used to the minor glitches, and what 
 you have is one of the funnest fps's of the year. The action is top notch, the story is intresting, 
 and creativly potrayed with an anime style cinemas that unfold almost like a stop and go comic. 
 The voice acting is your average cheap Japanese sounding translation, and the game is even equipped 
 with that lame cheesy Katana welding battles which serve as nothing more than to break up the games 
 action with a decent sword battle thrown in every once and a while. While the game is far from 
 perfect its intresting single player campaign, along with its nice visuals, and awesome action 
 and fun split screen multyplayer make this a deffinite must have for people who can look over the 
 faults and just enjoy the game for what it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps2boy11
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 30, 2006 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel was a game that was said to be the next gen fps for the Nintendo Wii. As soon as the 
 news got out people were thrilled. They too believed it would take Nintendo to the lead with a 
 revolutionary new fps. Unforunately, it turned out not as great as many expected. They said it 
 was all hype for nothing, but, in my opinion, they are all wrong. Red Steel is a great game. It does 
 take some getting used to with the controls, but once you learn them you'll find yourself enjoying 
 this game. The story is not that great and doesnt really seem to have a point as you spend the 
 game going after your girlfriend, Miyu. The gameplay is enjoyable once your able to control the 
 guns control pretty smooth and are mostly easy to use. The sword fights are challenging at some 
 points and rather exciting. For what kind of graphics we have seen so far on the Wii, Red Steel's 
 graphics are impressive. The enviroments are detailed and colorul, you can interact with most of 
 it from time to time such as blowing up certain objects to take out a group of enemies. It also 
 has nice sound effects, like when objects blow up or you shoot a gun and reload it, it sounds pretty 
 realistic. Overall Red Steel is quite entertaining once you overcome its mildy challenging controls. 
 Aside from that this is a great game, and you should check it out for a new fps experience on the 
 Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xIxrubenxIx
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 30, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  0k i'm going to be fast with this review so finally red steel is out the question is &iquest; is 
 this game worth playing ? And the answer, is NO the game has very bad graphics , history and control 
 an d last but not leats the multplayer isnt that great as they were anouncing back at E3 i mean 
 this could have been good 3 years ago but now is jus simply bad. The only thing that its a little 
 good of the game is the sound thats all DONT WASTE MONEY ON THIS ONE REALLY. You should wait for 
 a shooter cause this just ins't good thats , if you want to chek it ok go on but remeber about 
 this review before buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quetzalcoatl45
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 29, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  No Fancy Intro Today, time to Work:
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  This game's Steep learning curve has Put off a Number of People who have played it. Once you get 
 used to the controls, the game gets Better. Sword fight are abit Clunkier Than i had hoped and 
 the odd Pointer Jump happens.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  
  Ok, it's no Gears of War, But they are Good enough.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  The Gunfire and Sword 
 Clanging Sounds so right. Good VO and the reload sound's from the Wii-Mote are a Nice touch.
  
  Value: 8/10
  
  A Fun Single Player and Great Multiplayer Make this game a good Value.
 
  
  Tilt: 10/10
  
  I Love this game!
  
  Rent or Buy:
  Red Steel is really a Love/Hate game, so i will say rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomdood123
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 29, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  i took my time playing red steel. i didnt rush through it, so i could take the full effect of the 
 game in. i think the reason it is getting bad reviews is because they just play it. They don't 
 go through and look at it, and the things stuck in it. I usually look for easter eggs and stuff 
 like that. sounds kinda dumb, i know, but thats how i rele take in a game. I think the wiimote 
 absolutely adds an element to the First Person Shooter genre. I was watching AOTS the other day 
 about the wii and they completely underrated most games. One guy said Well i just don't feel that 
 the wii and wiimote add anything to the game, becaus i can just do it with a joistick. and i was 
 sitting there rele confused and i had to go play another level to see if i had overlooked this... 
 but i hadnt. I actually feel like i am aiming with a real gun. becaus im moving whole hand, and 
 sometimes my arm, not just moving my thumb arround. Overall i really like how it added to my vision 
 of Virtual Reality, and think more people have yet to realize that.
  
  -Mike 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donalbane
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  Despite the fact that Red Steel was heavily dissed by critics, I wanted a shooter for the Wii, 
 and I already own Call of Duty 3 on the 360, so I purchased Red Steel with some trepidation. There 
 are aspects of Red Steel that amazed me. Many of the levels are gorgeous and well designed, the 
 shooting is almost always entertaining, the partical effects and destructable envioronments are 
 spectacular, the story is engaging, and there is a definate sense of character growth throughout 
 the game that I found very rewarding. However, the game starts of very slowly. Your skills are 
 limited to simple shooting and turning over tables for cover, and the swordplay is so unchallenging 
 at first that it feels tacked on and underwhelming. This was probably not a bad design choice in 
 hindsight, as many people will be playing this game on a control scheme that they have not yet 
 become familiar with, and it makes it that much sweeter when you gain your stronger abilities during 
 the latter parts of the story. The shooting took a while to get used to, but once I got in the 
 groove, it felt very intuitive and fun. It does at times seem slightly more accurate than traditional 
 control schemes, but only by a small maragin.
  
  After a few hours, you are rewarded with some sword katas, which are basically simple combination 
 move to preform with your Wiimote, and focus mode, essentially bullet time, that allows a player 
 to shoot guns out of the enemy's hands while presenting the option to force them to surrender by 
 motioning up and down with the Wiimote. After you learn some more powerful techniques, the game 
 really opens up and starts feeling fresh and exciting. Sword combat gets much tougher, but never 
 really feels as good as the shooting. It is a great concept that wasn't executed well. I found 
 a couple of the sword katas too difficult to pull off consistently, and found myself instead relying 
 on the less powerful, simpler combos.
  
  The visuals are a mixed bag. Some levels definately look better than others (the outside of the 
 Dojo is gorgeous, as is the funhouse level) whereas other bits feel generic and bland (ANOTHER 
 WAREHOUSE LEVEL? How unique!) . Lighting is consistently great, however, and the levels are well 
 designed and enjoyable. The worst aspect of the graphics are the cheap, slapdash cutscenes, which 
 are essentially still images presented in a slide show fashion. The story itself is of relatively 
 high quality, but it's presentation feels rushed out the door for launch. Sound is similarly mixed. 
 The music is great throughout, weapon sound effects all hit their mark, but what in the world happened 
 with the voice acting. I guess this is what happens when the French hire Japanese people they think 
 will appeal to Americans. In short, the voice acting is laughable throughout, sporting ridiculous 
 Engrish despite decent writing.
  
  The game was short, taking me probably around 12-15 hours to complete, so given the aformentioned 
 problems it is hard to recommend Red Steel as a purchase. However, for shooter fans looking to 
 peer into the future of shooters on the Wii, Red Steel is a solid rental that will have you proud 
 of your new white box. It's not a system seller, but it's not garbage either. If it weren't on 
 the Wii, it would warrant a much lower score, as much of the appeal is due to the novelty control 
 scheme made possible by the Wii. It's a fun, forgettable experience that anyone who is even somewhat 
 curious should rent. Just don't buy it. This title is trade-in city, and the used game bin will 
 be flooded with copies in a month or two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arno33
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 29, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  Rent this game first, not worth $55.00. This game looked really cool. I was so excited about this 
 game. But when it came out, I got it. It was full of glitches and bugs. I first notice a bug when 
 I used my sword. The sword disappeared in mid air. And when I died the wii froze. I got so fet 
 up with this game. You should rent it first. But I have to admit the sound was pretty good. The 
 graphics were not good at all. Some parts of this game look like the N64. This game might be a 
 good rent, but not a good buy. I do not recommend this game at all. I rate this game a 6 out of 
 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinobi26X
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 29, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  OK, i would like to first start off by saying, i have no idea what the critics have been bad mouthing 
 so much about the game. This game is pretty badass. The controls for the game are great and very 
 responsive, for the most part. The gunplay is intense and how the controls sense your motions like 
 zooming in on enemies by pushing the controller forward to shooting your gun sideways depending 
 on how much you tilt your hand is awesome. However, the sword play controls are little slugish. 
 Its kind of slow but once you get used to it, its not that bad. The graphics are a mixed bag, but 
 mostly good. The environments look pretty detailed but character models could've used a little 
 more work. The sound in this game is very good as well. The guns sound like they pack a punch and 
 its really cool hearing the gun reload through the speaker of the wii-mote. The music is definitely 
 top-notch as well making the game feel like a movie with its dynamic score. The voice acting is 
 a completely mixed bag, some of it is pretty good, some of it just sucks. But the story is interesting 
 enough to keep you playing. The game takes about 7-10 hours to complete but its a lot of fun from 
 beginning to end. I kinda wish it was a bit more lengthy but no big deal, its still a really cool 
 game. Overall, its definitely one of the better games on the Wii and definitely worth picking up. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cookiejmonster
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 28, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Hey the idea is great and all, but there are some problems that make the game frustrating. The 
 graphics arent great, but some people dont need cutting edge super crazy graphics for a game to 
 be good. The sound is great with the noises coming from the wiimote and everything sounds the way 
 it should.
  
  The game is hard to learn at first with it being easy to point to the area you want to shoot, but 
 hard to get it to the exact spot. I like pointing because it is more enjoying, immersive, and more 
 satisfying. Using the nunchuck can be awkward at times but it is satisfactory for the game.
  
  The swordplaying is awkard when you have to learn to parry and it would be nice to be able 
 to replay only parts of the level in order to show people the swordfighting.
  
  The swearing seems out of place... a game with language, violence, and blood, especially when you 
 point to kill people, seems like it should have been rated M.
  
  Some glitches are extremely annoying. At first everything was fine, but when I let my friend play 
 the next day the game started flipping out. The gut would start moving back to the center of the 
 screen every couple seconds and this makes the game near unplayable. I also got to a point in the 
 level where I couldnt go on. I got right through a checkpoint and was faced with a bunch of debri. 
 I could not jump or destroy anything around me or go back because the doors were locked.
  
  It had such great potential, but glitches will ruin any great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epic_3D_Warfare
Rating: 2.1
Date: Nov 28, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Worst game of the year, bar none. Zelda looks like freaking Halo 3 or something compared to this. 
 The graphics are just too bland. You've got your city top level, your factory level, and your jungle 
 level in here: the cookie-cutter level format of your abysmal PC fps game. But wait, this game 
 would have been 100s+ plus times better on the PC. The controls are flat out awful. It takes too 
 much of an arm to even swing the ninja sword; i should get tennis elbow from my nintendo Wii!. 
 It takes to long too get adjusted to the controls, too. Just save the money you would spend on 
 this and get a real game like Half Life Two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dilathrilla
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the most fun shooters I've ever played. The controls are amazing because they 
 are intuitive and the gun on the screen follows every movement you make. This game controls much 
 better than the movies on Gamespot show. You don't really have to move over to the edge of the 
 screen.
  
  Another great thing about this game is its sword fighting. The Sword fighting though it doesn't 
 follow every movement you make it does work very well. You can do all sorts of attacks like uppercuts 
 and slashes in any direction. It works great. The parrying blade is also pretty awesome. The game's 
 story isn't bad either. Its not great but its a pretty fun action movie like roller coaster story.
 
  
  This game has pretty good graphics. Better than most things I've seen on the Gamecube. It also 
 has some really cool physics and ragdolls. One of my favorite things though in the game is the 
 ability to go up to a table and flip it with the nunchuck then take cover behind it. Your general 
 ability to pick up and play this game is based on how much Wii you have played. If you have played 
 a lot you will pick up the game instantly and have no trouble with controls. If you are new to 
 the Wii it might take you around a half hour to learn how to play. This game has great controls 
 and they are definately not hard to learn. Basically I am a huge shooter fan and I have had of 
 fun with this game. I would say its one of the better shooters to come out in a while. I reccommend 
 this game to any shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seasponge2004
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 12, 2006 6:09 am PT
Review:  Red Steel. The much hyped game has been looked forward to since the Wii was first announced. One 
 thing to remember, much like Excite Truck, is that this is a launch title and it is quite good. 
 Much like the XBox 360 and its extremely easy achievments on launch, this game is not going to 
 be perfect. I believe that the GameSpot review exagerated the cons of the game. While playing, 
 i have only seen a few glitches and that was because i was sitting in a bad place for the Wii remote. 
 I will also admit that the audio is very corny and is very stupid. In addition, it is odd how the 
 sword fight pops out of nowhere. But the fact that the it automaticly switches to the sword is 
 a necessity because if you could shoot the sword weilders, then the sword would be entirely uselsess. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheez-it277
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 27, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  When I first turned on this game, it looked good. The graphics are better than expected and the 
 story was not nearly as bad as some have said. I played through the first level and everything 
 was smooth, even the swordplay (don't remember if that was the first level or not) . As I advanced 
 through the game, and some control features were added (lock on, zoom) the controls got more and 
 more clunky. by the time I was defending the hotel suite while the other three characters escaped, 
 when trying to aim left, the gun was moving right. Trying to aim right made me zoom. This continued 
 on through the game. I've tried moving the sensor bar, adjusting sensitivity, etc. I do not have 
 control problems in any other game (zelda, sports, thdj, madden) so I think it's the game. This 
 is a game that should have been good but got just plain messed up. I gave it a difficulty of very 
 hard because the controls don't work, making the game very hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazy-lasagna
Rating: 5.9
Date: Nov 27, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  redsteel is i think one of the first games that have sword fighting and gun shooting. to me redsteel 
 doesnt have great of graphics, sound or wont have enough fun later in the future. but it sure is 
 really fun at the BEGINNING! redsteel is fun at times, but when you beat it then nothing is there 
 to do except for multiplayer. but im sure its not fun playing multiplayer everytime right? anyways, 
 redsteel, it has a fun sword fighting technique. the gun fighting can be fun too because it feels 
 like your holding a real gun (well not really) but its still fun. to me redsteel isnt that fun though 
 overall. i give the game a 5.9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KMWota91
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 4, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  I can say that the gameplay is done pretty horribly. The AI is lacking as they move towards you 
 sometimes, making it much easier for you to kill them and the game doesn't offer very much new 
 elements for the shooter portion of the game. Some of the gameplay is limited so I would say that 
 it is really bad with the gameplay. It can sometimes be really frustrating to get passed levels 
 when there are a lot of men there, but that's the only thing that makes the game hard for the most 
 part. Also the sword battles become pretty hard and you are limited to only a few moves that can 
 be performed and some of which the enemy cannot block is something that you cannot do either. The 
 graphics work good in its favour and are better than the other titles' graphics on the Wii console, 
 but they aren't as powerful as the ones of the PS3 or Xbox 360. The control scheme is quite easy 
 and doesn't take very long to get used to. It is also something that interesting and a little bit 
 great about this game. The sound is done good, but isn't anything awesome. The value is nothing 
 that should ever be considered buying. If you want to play this game, don't buy it, rent it. I 
 personally will not find a good way to be playing this game the next time around and I certainly 
 won't buy it either. Although you can rent it, I would highly advise against that. This game is 
 fair and doesn't do well in most categories. At least it did well on the sales, so maybe that will 
 help the sequel shape up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteDForce
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 26, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel wields a few nerve hitting flaws as well as an obvious lack of polish, yet it has a promising 
 control scheme. First and foremost this game is far from a terrible mark on the Wii. Its quite 
 admirable given the time constraints it suffered to make the Wii launch. Some of the design ideas 
 are quite enticing, such as the respect and time freeze.
  
  However for the most part it comes off as uninspired and generic (design wise) . The storyline isn't 
 anything special and the voice overs are often tacky and ruin some of the otherwise authentic feel.
 
  
  The gleaming flaws i'd love to deny are its lack of speed or excitement. Due to the very slow movement 
 and turning, and the sword fights are not as responsive as i had hoped (not as fun either) . The 
 game is short and sometimes painful, but for the most part is a moderately enjoyable title more 
 or less worth a rent not a buy. The lack of bots and depth in multiplayer is also a contributing 
 factor to the overall disappointment of this title.
  
  Gameplay - 7
  The controls themselves work wonderfully, showcasing the Wii's potential in the FPS genre. This 
 game will obviously be surpassed in times to come and hopefully the clunky feel of this game wont 
 be overlooked in future efforts.
  
  Graphics - 7
  An utter lack of consistency. Sometimes this game looks quite nice, however most the time it looks 
 bland and slightly above average (on last gen's standards) . The lighting and some of the outside 
 environments look really realistic as well.
  
  Sound - 9
  I must compliment the wonderful soundtrack. It makes the atmosphere much more exciting and nice 
 little chimes and sound effects. The only thing keeping the sound from a perfect 10 is the voice 
 acting and cheesy warcrys made by most of your enemies.
  
  Overall - 7.2
  I will say this game achieves moderate success on certain levels, but for the most part fails to 
 live up to the hype. This game is nothing more than a tantalizing glimpse of things to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd131
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 26, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  If this game was not for the wii it would be getting 4.0's or less because the only good thing 
 about the game is aiming with the wii controller. The graphics look like they are from a year 2002 
 game except for the nice particle effects, it barely has any sound effects and the gameplay is 
 really repetitive. The sword fighting is easy and its less than you would expect. There is no online 
 play and there are only 4 different split-screen multiplayer courses. If you have a wii I would 
 only recommend to get this for $20 or less because it is a little entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenialUIP
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 26, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  When I first saw this review, I thought 5.5 ?, is it that bad ? . Even affer that I bought it. 
 And believe me, I'm not disppointed.
  
  First, graphics aren't bad, really. They are in fact pretty good, and you won't even think about 
 them when you're in the middle of a firefight. And that's when the fun starts, the gameplay is 
 just fantastic, shooting was always a piece of fun, even better when you start sword fighting. 
 The controls works just fine, the only problem is the turning rate, which is too slow.
  The story is also of an excellent quality, but too short though.
  To end, I'd say that there's 
 almost no blood in the game, which let me think why is the title Red Steel . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebandbuddy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 11:50 pm PT
Review:  I love red steel. Even though it didn't get the best ratings, you should should still pick this 
 one up. The gameplay is awesome and you shouldn't just totally forget about this great title just 
 because it doesn't have the best graphics!!! It's the gameplay that really counts and Red Steel 
 takes full advantage of the Wii's Hradware. This game, in my own personal opinion, will be an instantanious 
 classic for the Nintendo Wii!!! This game i think was very much so underapreciated. It's fun, innovative, 
 creative, and challenging all at the same time!!! So, go to your local dealer, and pick it up today!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XBOXking525
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 25, 2006 10:29 pm PT
Review:  i havent gotten even an hr into the single player campaign, and the gunplay is ok. but the controls 
 suck at first. i guess ya gotta get used to it. when u first pick it up, u'll be frustrated with 
 the controls, cuz its SO sensative. like if u move ur hand to much, ur hand on the screen will 
 go into a corner and u'll turn in the opposate direction and it sux. o, and by the way... the story 
 SUCKS!!! but one and maybe the only reason to own this game is for wut this game can do for with 
 the wii controller. the sword play in the game is by far the BEST part of this game. hands down. 
 its really fun cuz its different. and especially when the guys surrender to u after u beat them 
 u have a choice to kill them or not..... and u have a big slash and kill them. its so satisfying 
 feeling. when i first heard of the game i was VERY excited bout the sword fighting. and i was impressed 
 by it. even in the E3 footage, i wasnt interesting in the gunplay. which is the part tht is pretty 
 mediocre. again, overall the swordplay, BIG plus. i wish the game had online though, tht would've 
 made it a lot better. actually, they probably should've spent more time on this game. it could've 
 got better, but not so much where u'll be amazed. to conclude, Red Steel is an ok game with good 
 ideas, but bad results. unless u dont like zelda or kiddy lookin games at launch, then pick this 
 up. if ya dont, rent it, see if ya like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gweeql
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 25, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  So I was reading the reviews for this game before Wii came out and I see a 5.5 rating on here. 
 Which I think is too low for this game. I mean the games not the best game ever and such, but its 
 not that bad. The controls are pretty good, and pretty easy to get down, but when It comes to learning 
 new moves with the sword they become kind of hard to remember. The graphics aren't that great. 
 They are about equalivent to an xbox game +/-. The story line isnt too exciting in this game, its 
 kind of hard to follow. Thats why this game isnt a 9.0 or more. The game doesnt really do anything 
 too original besides of the the aiming system and opening doors. The gameplay is solid, and I ran 
 into few problems with it, besides the ragdoll physics which can be over exagerated sometimes. 
 The game isnt that long, I believe I beat the game at about 79% in a little over 8 hours. Over 
 all if you have a Wii and are a fan of first person shooters you should check this out. I thought 
 it was worth the 50 bucks, but if your weary about it just give it a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXRKOXx
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 25, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Im not here to say THIS GAME IS AMAZING, nor am I here to say ROFL IT SUCKS. If you get a Wii and 
 are looking for a game that will make you crap your pants while you play, then Red Steel isnt for 
 you. If your someone who buys games to have fun, and doesnt critique every little thing, then by 
 all means, go out and buy Red Steel. I personally enjoy the game, because its just plain fun. Even 
 though aiming isnt always easy, I still have a lot of fun actually controlling the gun in the way 
 that the Wiimote allows you to. Thumbs up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshi_Lover
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 25, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  So I arrive at my EB games at launch day and I find myself in a tough spot. GS has given RedSteel 
 a 5.5 but I have been looking forward to this game and I trust the quality of games that Ubisoft 
 puts out. So I take a chance and pick it up. This is what I learned in about 8 hours of gameplay 
 before I returned the game.
  
  Gameplay: Though the story is... well sub-par I looked past that and decided to focus on gameplay. 
 Being the first FPS game made specifically for the Wii I knew that there would be some glitches 
 in RedSteel but as I said I took my chance. The final product scores a nice score for gameplay 
 but the turning methods and the movement needs to be tweaked in further Wii First Person Shooters. 
 The good thing about this is that future games will learn from Ubisoft's experience and we'll start 
 to see higher quality of games from this genre. Overall the gameplay is fun once you deal with 
 the steep learning curve and get your turning down then youll start to have fun. You also have 
 the option to turn the sensitivity up in the options but then all the turning is perfect but all 
 the other movement is too fast. If Ubisoft had made turning speed seperate from all other movement 
 the game would have been vastly improved. Then we have framerate. I ran into too many framerate 
 problems even when I was fighting only one guy and that was too frustrating to get by. Sometimes 
 i felt like stopping because it couldnt perform. All in all the gameplay is more of a liability 
 and the ultimate reason why I wont recommend this game.
  
  Sound: So the sound. The one thing I loved about the game was the sounds. The sound of reloading 
 and other stuff sounding from the Wiimote created a very fun experience and I found myself at times 
 shooting just to hear the reload sound. But what was really impressive was the soundtrack which 
 featured stereotypical Japanese music but pulled it off without being cheesy. Graphics: Now we 
 come to my second biggest problem; the graphics. The graphics are not this generation not last 
 generation but in between the N64 and the Gamecube. It seems that Ubisoft spent all of its time 
 trying to get the gameplay and sounds together that they forgot about the graphics. Im not really 
 a graphics buff and I dont need pretty things to be satisfied but I needed a little more than what 
 RedSteel offered. My other big problem is that oyu often found one too many graphical glitches 
 and as I said too many framerate problems. All in all you really have to be a pushover to accept 
 these graphics nowadays. Replay Value:
  Well what can I say. I think that if like this game it has great replay potential rivaling games 
 such as Goldeneye but If you cannot get past some of the glitches then It wont be too enticing.
 
  
  So what is my final verdict? Sorry guys I know you want to love this game like I did but it really 
 isnt worth anything over 25 dollars and by the time that it's price comes down to that level, other 
 companies and Ubisoft will have improved on RedSteel's mistakes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 25, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel was hyped to be one of the best Wii launch titles, but it doesn't quite live up to that. 
 Though Red Steel is flawed, it ultimatley ends up being a pretty good showcase of what the Wii 
 can do.
  
  Red Steel is a straight up action game, no puzzles, or other distractions take you away from the 
 gameplay. The gameplay is made up of two different segments. The shooting segments where you point 
 at the screen with your Wii remote and dispatch baddies. These shooting sequences are hard to get 
 used to at first but can end up being pretty fun and it also makes great use of the controller.
 
  Sword fighting doesn't have as steep of a learning curve as the shooting sequences. You use the 
 Wii Remote to slash at your opponent, and a flick of the nunchuck attatchment will parry your opponents 
 attacks. The sword-fighting sequences generally work well and are pretty fun. One thing to note 
 about both is the problem with your Wii Remote going offscreen when you don't notice, which can 
 be very frustrating.
  
  The graphics are okay. The models and enviornments, as well as the lighting are all done well, 
 but the animations aren't very good (especially the character's hand mimicking yours.) But still, 
 these graphics are not much of an improvement over the Gamecube.
  
  The sound in this game is generally pretty solid in terms of sound effects, but the voiceovers 
 and music are not done well at all. Also, certain sounds (such as the enemies' taunts during fighting 
 sequences) are repeated a lot.
  
  Red Steel features a standard lengthed story mode for a shooter and theres split screen multiplayer 
 which can keep you busy for a little while.
  
  Red Steel is generally a well done game, but there are certain flaws that keep it from truly shining. 
 If you're a fan of FPSs then Red Steel is the game to get for your Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PvT__HuShBuRN
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 25, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  GRAPHICS: Probally the best realistic approach to graphics on the wii. The envioments look okay, 
 and charcter models are mediocre. The weapon models look terrible. The cutscenes, oh god, the cutscenes 
 can UBISOFT the people who got a 9.1 on Rainbow Six: Vegas, not make real time cutscenes, and not 
 that stupid max payne comic book style. Seriously. The sword models... are... well.... shiny...
 
  
   GAMEPLAY:
  
  Dont even get me started with the aiming. Everytime you move the wii-mote out of the sensor bar 
 and cant pick up what the wii-mote does, the gun jumps to the corner, and your charachter starts 
 moving in circles. WOW. Anyways, everything is exactly the same, kill tons of guys here, an odd 
 sword fight there. Focus mode sucks. The sword fights are the only good thing. They actually dont 
 bug out like gun play. Thank you, UBISOFT for doing something right in this game. The story is 
 stupid. OH!!! WAIT!!!! We've seen it so many times before, you Fiancee gets kidnapped. O NOES!!!
 
  
   SOUND:
  
  The guns sound alright.... I guess.. WAIT!! WAIT! ONE SECOND. THEY DONT SOUND GOOD THEY SOUND TERRIBLE. 
 They sound those as if someone shot a gun and recorded it with Sound Recorder on PC. They voice 
 over are deadly. They suck more than Paris Hilton in a day. The swords sound.... like.... uh... metal 
 hitting metal. Oh, also the music. 
  
  
  
  Overall the game is mediocre.
 
  
  4.9
  
  Gameplay: 5
  Grpahics: 7
  Sound: 4
  Value: 6
  
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellFire816
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 25, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  I've read and watched a lot of reviews of Red Steel and it's confusing if I should get this with 
 my Nintendo Wii. I've heard it sucks, I've heard that don't believe the people who said it sucks, 
 to my conclusion it looks amazing. But the controls will be hard to figure out. Well, I just got 
 my Nintendo Wii with Zelda and Red Steel. Red Steel is awesome, great sound, best graphics for 
 the Nintendo Wii, the value of it is great, multi player is fun, but they should have had better 
 modes for it. The only thing wrong with the game is the controls, but after an hour of playing 
 it you'll be a pro at it. So, you can believe the other people who says it sucks, but those people 
 haven't even played it. If your still spectacle about it rent it. If your a hardcore gamer than 
 buy this game. For a launch title it's 2nd best to Zelda of course. Hoped this helped your decision. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacius
Rating: 1.9
Date: Nov 25, 2006 2:10 am PT
Review:  i started to play this game and was immediately disappointed. the graphics remind me of 007 goldeneye, 
 while the game play did not impress me whatsoever. this game does have some potential, but it lacks 
 in most areas that a game should be strong in. the multi player was the most atrocious part of 
 the game. i found myself becoming bored and seeking more fun, but the game never delivered to me. 
 i was thoroughly unimpressed. though the wii does take some getting used to, the way that this 
 game works is not good. yes i like the wii controllers, but i feel that for a FPS you may want 
 to stick to either a computer or a different console, not the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nnymadnessdude
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 24, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Single player is amazingly great. It is one of the best fps's in those terms
  Multiplayer is weak and is no where as good as single player and makes the game seem gay The only 
 way for multiplay to be good is if there are 4 people playing at the same time because all of the 
 maps are too big for two people.
  The graphics and gameplay seem to be dimmed down for multiplayer. Otherwise if the multiplayer 
 wasnt soo crappy I'd give this game above a 9.5 Yeah you get the picture. ooo I give this a 8.4 
 and hope the next fps for wii will be good all around/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trendkill351
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 24, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  red steel was one of the first games to be anounced for wii and it looked amazing when the showed 
 it but this does not live up to the hype what so ever. the game could be great and it almost made 
 it, but it has to many flaws. in game hen your walking your gun will glitch in random directons 
 and a. i is terrible. the dialoge is terrible and repetitive. the game could have lived up to the 
 hype but they rushed it. multiplayer has less glitch and is pretty fun, and may remind you much 
 like goldeneye but this game is worth the 50$ . some people may find this game fun but most people 
 hate it . so try it at one of your friends house who got trapt into buying the game like i did. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheamo
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Title: Red Steel
  By: Ubisoft
  Platform: Wii
  Genre: First-Person Shooter/Action Adventure
  Multiplayer: 2-4 split screen, no bots
  
  Red 
 Steel was the first game officially announced for the Wii, and at first seemed like a very obvious 
 choice for a game considering what we were seeing of the Wiis technology with lots of guns and 
 samurai swords. Ubisoft has basically now made a game that is trying extremely hard to be cool. 
 Everything tries, mostly unsuccessfully, to work towards this effect. Red Steels story centers 
 around an American named Scott who is engaged to a girl named Miyu who is the daughter of a Yakuza 
 clan leader. When the game starts Miyu is taking you to meet her father Sato for the first time. 
 Some shooting breaks out and you get separated from your fianc&eacute;. Eventually Miyu gets kidnapped 
 and you have to work together with her father to save her.
  
  It turns out that the only reason that Miyu was kidnapped is because the opposing Yakuza clan leader 
 that attacked wants Satos sword the Katana Giri. Sato gets injured in the first level, but you 
 save him from being killed, so he puts the responsibility on you to rescue his daughter. After 
 some investigation you find out where they are keeping Miyu, but arrive too late to save her because 
 she is put on a plane to Tokyo. You go back to Sato to find that his injuries are incurable, and 
 he dies, telling you in his last words to take the Katana Giri and rescue Miyu in Japan. Once you 
 get to Japan you meat up with a bunch of new characters, including a group of rather respectable 
 Yakuza. They give you missions to put an end to certain troubles within the Yakuza. Eventually 
 you do find and rescue Miyu as well as putting an end to the chaos and fighting within the Yakuza 
 clans, effectively becoming the Western Samurai.
  
  This game is mostly set in modern Japan. Theres a good range of levels including streets, bars, 
 ancient Japanese building, offices, and many other settings. The levels actually look pretty good, 
 especially when compared with some other aspects of the game, and you only find the same textures 
 being reused a few times.
  
  The game does have a lot of graphical issues though, and actually barely even comes up to the standards 
 with most recent Game Cube titles. Character design is especially bad, with over-used skins and 
 models, and animations that arent very good. You will probably find yourself cringing for the 
 first while you play whenever you aim at the very right side of the screen because the characters 
 hand basically breaks off from the arm. Weapon design is also a problem, since every pistol looks 
 almost identical, the two SMGs look far too close to each other, and three of the larger weapons 
 are also extremely similar. Probably somewhere around a third through the game you will realize 
 that there actually is mouth animations when characters speak (outside of their artistic cutscenes) . 
 Even worse are the cutscenes, which look like badle taken photos of things with no real animation. 
 They use click and drag for anything they do move in them and it is quite believable that Ubisoft 
 made these cutscenes in Flash. Most of the time you will probably find yourself wishing that just 
 more time had been spent on the look of this game.
  
  Which is unfortunately how most of Red Steel feels. Despite a pretty cool plot, looking back at 
 it, the game has shoddy dialogue and writing, and all but about one voice actor is completely terrible. 
 The game is also extremely glitchy: many times you will see guns or corpses just floating through 
 the air, or people going through objects. Even a few times enemies would fall right through the 
 floor when they died and somehow would end up sticking down through the roof. You are able to flip 
 tables over for cover, but this does not always work and sometimes the option to flip it will go 
 away when you press the button, but nothing else will actually change.
  
  The sword fighting system also seems like it needed a lot more work, or maybe just a different 
 approach or something. At first it seems really cool, especially blocking by quickly moving the 
 Nunchuk controller right or left to block attacks, but that is early in the game and the fights 
 get both boring and repetitive. The game attempts to increase the difficulty of these battles as 
 you go along, but the only way it does this is by pretty much letting the computer cheat. The computer 
 can do a strong attack and block immediately as you attack it even if you dodge its attack. The 
 enemies can hit multiple times for massive damage after just blocking one of your attacks. You 
 learn to combat this not by getting better at fighting, or not too much better anyways, but mostly 
 just by learning to exploit the system as each enemy fights with one of two or three style that 
 is a very recognizable pattern. The most effective strategy against one of these styles is actually 
 just to swing the Wii-mote back and forth quickly until the enemy is at low health. One problem 
 with the actually play is that you have to hold the controller completely horizontally for the 
 strokes to be accurate, and it definitely would have been way better if you could twist the sword 
 as you twist the remote. The whole system almost completely fails, and by the end of the game you 
 will probably groan whenever Scott swaps his gun for a Katana.
  
  In contrast to the badly executed sword system, the first-person shooter aspects of this game are 
 really fun, and will probably be all that keeps you playing through the nine or so hours the story 
 takes to get through. Whether this is something that Ubisoft did right, or it is just because the 
 Wii is a good system for playing shooters remains to be seen until more shooters come out. You 
 just move with the joystick on the Nunchuck and aim with the Wii-mote, this seems simple, but it 
 does take two-three hours before you can actually aim well. That time is worth it though, and is 
 also expected from a control style that is radically different from anything used in the past. 
 The only other thing that is different is that you do a few different actions just by flicking 
 the Nunchuck, things such as reloading and tossing grenades.
  
  You might think with a game that has such a good system for shooting would support some pretty 
 awesome multiplayer, but this is wrong. There are no bots, the levels seem to big, there is no 
 music to distract you, the character models look even worse, the aiming system seems less reliable, 
 there is no online play, you cannot sword fight (although after playing single player that probably 
 wont actually bother you) , and basically the multiplayer just completely fails. There is also 
 only three modes: deathmatch, team deathmatch, and a cool looking mode in which each player receives 
 calls on the speaker in the Wii-mote and are instructed to do certain things. Unfortunately you 
 need four remotes and nunchucks to even try this mode and that will only set you back like two 
 hundred dollars or something after purchasing the system. The multiplayer basically offers almost 
 nothing good, and the only thing it is good for is learning the control style beore you delve into 
 the single player campaign.
  
  Again, one of the only thing Red Steel does really well is it shooter gameplay, and the other thing 
 that is exceptional is the games music. It ranges from weird Japanese licensed tracks (at least 
 one of which is recognizable from Kill Bill) to really epic orchestrated music with opera singers. 
 The music tracks create pretty much all of what little style this game actually has.
  
  For everything Red Steel tries to do, especially in trying to make itself sort of a cool, artistic, 
 and stylish game, it really just comes off as feeling lame and unfinished at most parts with the 
 only interesting dialogue coming from one character in a monologue at the very end. After you get 
 used to the controls and play for a while the only reason you would possibly have to continue playing 
 would be just because it is fun to shoot stuff on the Wii.
  
  Gameplay: 7
  Graphics: 5
  Sound: 7
  Value: 6
  Multiplayer: 3
  Story: 6
  Opinion: 7
  
  Overall: 5.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remihoh
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 24, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  I got it. the game is quite hard to pick up but is descently fun when you get the hang of it. the 
 gfx are absolutly terrible but the game play sorta makes up for it. maybe buy. deffinetly rent. 
 The wii's inovate controls deffiently give it the edge but still doesnt make the game much better. 
 Explosions, weather and textures are all much below the nex gen level and are quite similar to 
 those on the n64. the game has a good concept but the follow through is terrible. this game deffinetly 
 moves ubisoft down a few notches in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oblivion86
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 24, 2006 5:02 am PT
Review:  I have read all of the negative press that this game has received and have ventured to buy it for 
 myself and try it out to see if it really amounts to everything that people make it to be (which 
 is not much) . Truth to be told, I find that only a few of the major flaws which are described about 
 this game really show off so I felt compelled to write an honest unbiased review about it (yes, 
 some people in Gamespot staff are biased, I know this from experience) . While often I disagree 
 with online reviews (particularly Gamespot reviews) , I do find them to be somewhat enlightening 
 because they point out many of the pros and cons in a game, and after having read what these flaws 
 or pros are I can asses myself whether or not a game is good or not depending on the extent to 
 which I feel that the mentioned attributes would potentially affect my gameplay. That said, I must 
 make my argument that the reviewer's major complaint about this game is dumbfounded at best. But 
 first of all, lets get the details out of the way: The game is a release title, that feels somewhat 
 rushed. You can tell from the production value that this game was finished under pressure (probably 
 by Nintendo) and thus has many unpolished aspects. One of these aspects includes the weird ligthing 
 effects that the game applies. More often than not, you can see odd rainbow colored textures on 
 some of the doors becaues of the way the engine handles T&amp; L, but this is merely a small visual 
 inconsistency and is barely noticeable. Overall, the graphics are great for a Wii title: the guns 
 do look pretty well, not too overly detailed (a closer look will reveal bland textures) but not 
 bad enough that it detracts from the gameplay (who seriously stares at a gun when there's baddies 
 to shoot anyways?) and overall the level design and artifacts and objects are well done. Concerning 
 sound, this game performs considerably well in a surround sound environment. It does not have enhanced 
 Surround sound capabilities but it provides that sweet spot when objects blow up and doesn't overdo 
 either lows or highs and the addition of the reloading sounds coming out of the Wii controller 
 is very well done as well, it doesn't sound crackly as some other high pitched sounds from other 
 games. Although I have not beaten the game as of this writting, the gameplay is very immersive. 
 While the dialogue and voiceovers border the line of corny and amateur-ish, it has the very simplistic 
 hands down formula of any good first person shooter: Some guys decided to make your day bad so 
 you'll now introduce them to a couple of little friends....
  Gameplay wise this game swings for the sweet spot again but misses by only a small margin: while 
 the AI is overall very good at shooting you (their job) , they're not always great at detecting 
 you or covering from your fire. An example would be the player sneaking up from behind an enemy 
 and the enemy facing the position from which the player should have come; sometimes even shooting 
 at the enemy will foster no reaction from the latter. Also, the AI will look for cover.... well, 
 in open spaces, and will find itself riddled with bullets. And quite a few times the AI will accidentally 
 shoot explodable objects right in front of itself... not very clever of them.
  Another aspect that may have needed some polishing is the sword fighting sequences. Why are they 
 thrown in the middle of the fray? Who cares, you get to slice and dice. The problem is that the 
 player does not entirely control the sword itself, but rather has a predefined set of movements 
 available. When a player thinks I can swing my sword with the Wii however I want it to! one doesn't 
 think: But only in certain ways that have been pre encoded into the engine. I think as a player 
 one should have complete control of the sword, much like the player has over the guns. That said, 
 I can only imagine that the reason why this wasn't the case is because the AI engine would have 
 been much harder to program and again, this game may have been rushed to some extent. Here is also 
 where I find the major rebuttal for the decision of the control schematics. Did anyone ever stop 
 to think to themselves: Maybe I should hold the Wii remote like a real gun? I noticed at first 
 that even this was somewhat hard to do, because of the way our brains have been molded to think. 
 And I would imagine that for a hardcore FPS player, this would be considerably harder to do, since 
 the control feels unnatural at first. But holding the Wii remote in a default sort of position 
 isn't enough for this game. For this game to be truly immersive, you have to feel like you are 
 part of the game; and what better way than to hold the Wii remote like a real gun? Granted that 
 this can be somewhat tiring, as you will come to find out that the positions necessary to hold 
 a gun aren't very comfortable, and specially not a remote (your wrist might ache somewhat) , but 
 believe me when I tell you that this will completely change your perspective of the game if you 
 try this (Personally I hold each gun accordingly to how you would hold it in real life) . My main 
 argument is that this is the epitome of Nintendo's message: They want us the gamers and the developers 
 to open our minds to a new form of gameplay. We can't just keep applying the same old concepts 
 and recycle them over and over, NIntendo wants the gaming industry to change, and Red Steel is 
 one of those games that has taken a gamble at it but has failed to convey that message. If you 
 can't change the way you think about video games then you can't really allow for much change. Red 
 Steel is a game that asks the player to rediscover the gaming core mechanincs, and does so at the 
 risk of failing miserably. Granted that this game is not perfect, but it's not far from it. This 
 game, however, is like one of those new technologies that needs to be supported to truly take off, 
 but once it does it will render amazing results. While Red Steel may feel unpolished and somewhat 
 rushed, it is a very solid first person shooter that will render you a decent amount of hours of 
 fun, and if you allow it, will let you feel gaming in a fresh and different way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azn_windsoul
Rating: 5.6
Date: Nov 23, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is a total letdown, I bet many of you had stayed up all night thinking about this game 
 after you've seen the previews at E3 and the presentations.
  Controls: Yes, its very hard to control but I dont think thats why it was low rated by some other 
 users, usually in commercial there are only little dramatizations of games but redsteel had so 
 much dramatization that it was just so fake.
  It was totally a let down, I got my Wii, i set it up, the first game I played was this game, and 
 boy I tell you what I wanna stab someone for making my waste my time, money and how red steel was 
 gonna turn out. This is rated a fricken teen game but thier aint no fricken blood, not on the gun 
 parts nor the sword parts. I spent a few more hours on this hoping something good would turn up... 
 but i guess not
  
  I'll give this only to good points, 1. the wii, itself is good (not the game) 2. the commercial 
 - really good job on making a crappy game look so goood 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFoxCOM
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Red steel is a FPS from master FPS disgners ubisoft (farcry, XIII) After a lot of hype good and 
 bad news. And mixed previews, red steel my not meet the hype but overall it delivers a good FPS 
 experince. Overall if this was played on a game pad i'd drop the score 3 or 2 points. But because 
 it's the best FPS at launch it gets a 8.0 here are some catagorys.
  
  aiming: adjustable so it should work who ever you are. Auto aim can be activated while you're playing 
 with the A button. graphics: quite good the lighting has it's own littile shines through glass 
 and it defintly puts the wii near the end of it's power in explosions.
  
  Gameplay: everything from aiming also the game features sword fighting which is pretty good you 
 use 2 sword one for swinging and one for blocking. But it should be free swinging not just 6 pre-set 
 movements. Also while it does not include a max Payne rip-off slow motion bullet time it has. Frezz 
 time for however many honor points you have which can be collected by letting you're oppenent live 
 after defeting him after winning a sword fight or he loses his gun. lasting appeal differnt diffucultys, 
 and honor points add replay value. Multiplayer sadly has no online or bots. It features 4 differnt 
 maps and 3 differant modes. 2 are death match and one is cool and called killer you're wiimoat 
 act's as a phone and the sensi gives you a misson. Sound. The gun and expolisons sound geart but 
 voice acting, umm... not so much.
  overall red steel is the 2cd or 3rd best game to get at launch. If you didn't buy this but bought 
 zelda this is worth getting as a christmas gift. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xeidog69
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 23, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Redsteel is probably the second most sought after wii title at launch, The game has a great style 
 to it and offers gamers some great concepts which take full use of the new wii-remote and its motion 
 sensing capabilities as well as the pointer functions.. In regards to all of this however the controls 
 dont work anything like they make them out to on the commercial, you do not quite point directly 
 at the screen nor do you hold your hand out like a gun ,some of us knew this already but it has 
 to be made clear that if you go acting like the ppl in the commercials the pointer is going to 
 go crazy on you and so will your view on the screen because of the turning box...
  
  Turning Box.. yes the turning box.. the box is invisible but it is there and has a major effect 
 on the gameplay experience, you see unlike most games which has the whole screen move when you 
 aim etc red steel and ubi went another route and did the invisible box.. you can move and point 
 your gun any way you want and do so with very accurate precision taking iout enemies with ease.. 
 however things get difficult when you have enemies in multiple directions because when you need 
 to turn you must point the gun to the very edge of the screen and the turning is very slow ofton 
 causing you great harm or even death... so while the box gave us the amazing ability to twist our 
 gun gangsta and offer up precise aim its faults are far greater because turning sucks, if you move 
 to far out of the box the screen goes nuts and it is at times difficult to get the cursor back 
 onscreen in time to save your hide.. I did however hate RS at first and was never gonna try it 
 again, However my nephews were getting kinda far and I watched them play I was interested, they 
 died in a sword battle so I tried from the last checkpoint and all of a sudden 3 hours passed by.. 
 I realised that when I sat there calmly and made gentle motions I soon learned the system better 
 then previous times playing it still was far from perfect but was very playable at the same time, 
 I just played in the cautious manner and took cover Ieverywhere as I moved right along through 
 the levels.. be cautious and take your time and youll kill this game, try and go buck consider 
 yourself dead..
  
  graphics were not exactly what I expected the characters r pretty weak looking in my opinion almost 
 like high res version of goldeneye 64 characters, however alot fo the environments were very nicely 
 done .. the levels and objects in them have reasonable amounts of detail, and the weapons look 
 cool... if only a little more time was taken on the character models overal the graphics r solid 
 for a launch title ..
  
  The audio on Redsteel is awesome, I really like the audio, the music and the pace of the sound 
 changes depending on whats happening, the music kinda takes you into a shooting frenzy and keeps 
 you on your gaurd then when you r safe the music lets you know that you can relax, the audio sent 
 to the wiimote is a nice little touch..
  
  My final verdict on redsteel is that it is worth the purchase, the game does offer up great ideas 
 and once ya learn to live with its one real fault which would be turning and the pointer sensitivity, 
 you will really find enjoyment in the title, the learning curve on redsteel is probably the largest 
 because you have almost no choice but to play calmly with gentle wrist movements during the majority 
 of the game, the only time you can play like in the commercials is during sword fights because 
 it only uses the motion sensing and direction pads.. this is probably why sword fighting is so enjoyable..
 
  
  I give RS a solid 8.4. it would have gotten far better if certain things were given more time to 
 be cleaned up and adjusted and if they would have made more adjustments to the controls the game 
 very well could have been perfect, however it was a launch title and im sure it was rushed and 
 at the last minutes they did quite a bit of fixing up work to launch the game.. so there ya have 
 it a solid Launch title worthy of the dollars of gamers who r interested in it.. itll piss ya off 
 for a while but given a chance youll enjoy the game, it may even become addicting, I couldnt stop 
 playing it my second trip through, the first trip however I almost threw the wiimote out of anger..
 
  I do not recommend the game to those who r not up for a challenge the game is at times difficult 
 and the laerning curve is fairly high.. the typical learning curve is 30 minutes however to me its 
 really 1-2 hours because youll be far better in a few hours then just minutes.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalidascorp
Rating: 1.9
Date: Nov 23, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  This game was something I was really looking forward to, especially in multiplayer play. But when 
 I tried it, I couldn't believe it. The controls were so hard to get used to, and even after I knew 
 what to do some buggy game play really screwed with my fun. I hope to be able to sell it to a friend 
 or something, if they want it... There are lots of games that are out or will come out that are 
 better worth my money.
  
  Also, There was not sword fighting in multiplayer mode. That was the single most important feature 
 in my book, since it would really get the player into the game. Unfortunatly, only 4 maps made 
 multiplayer mode nearly useless, except maybe during the first few games untill you already tried 
 all the possible combinations of game play...
  
  Basically... Don't... Get... This... Game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: futchy_ly
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 23, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  Red Steel was the first game to show screen pics and get everyone hayped. But at the E3 it didn't 
 do so hot. Now here it is in stores. Story- You play a man named Scott. His fiance Miyu has been 
 captured and you have to save Her. The sotry is pretty basic. A man loses someone he loves and 
 he has to save them back.
  
  Gameplay- You use guns and swords but mostly guns. You use the Wii-mote as the pinter and shppter 
 and chnger and reloder. You use the nunchuk as the mover, croucher, and jumper. The thing that really 
 bugs me is that the camera is ver hard to control. You have to move the pointer all the way to 
 the side just to aim so the camera will be bothering you. Also the sowrd play is okay but it's 
 annoying. Alot of moves to learn and it just slows things down.
  
  Sound- Will they have some voice actors and the sword and gun sounds are nice. I find the sound 
 to be good in red steel.
  
  Graphics- The graphics are nice. The enviroment is all destructable. You can see a TV and just 
 destroy it and if you see a car you can destroy that to. Grpahics are good.
  
  OK so Red steel is a good game but the camera really messes thing up and takes some time to learn. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weggy100
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  You all waited for it, and here it is. Red Steel was one of the more anticipated launch titles 
 for the Wii behind Zelda. But does it deliver on all the hype? Well, not exactly - but it comes 
 close.
  
  I suppose we could start off with the graphics - they're not fantastic. While slightly above the 
 previous generation, they're nothing to write home about. That isn't really an issue, however. 
 The Wii was not designed to be a graphical powerhouse. It looks good enough. If you want eye candy, 
 may I recommend a PC?
  
  So, how about that sound? Its actually pretty good. The guns and swords sound great, and don't 
 create the same noises tinker toys do - they've got some oompf behind them. The one downside is 
 the voice acting. It's by no means fantastic, but it is better than what we've seen in most games.
 
  
  Now, the big thing with Red Steel was its amazing control scheme. It actually is quite amazing. 
 This game has a pretty good learning curve - maybe an hour, possibly 2. To be honest though, once 
 you get around it, its hard to imagine the controls any other way. You'll be able to get headshots 
 from a mile away, can quickly react to threats, and get around the levels with ease. If Red Steel 
 loses any significant points, its here. The learning curve may throw off a few gamers, but those 
 who stick it out will be richly rewarded.
  
  Finally, we have the gameplay. The single player is actually quite good. The story is nothing fantastic, 
 but its told in such a compelling way it seems better than it really is. The writing is quite good, 
 and the comic book style scenes in between missions have a very nostalgic feel to them. Other than 
 that, its standard FPS fare aside from the control scheme - get from point A to point B by unlocking 
 doors and blasting anyone in your way.
  
  The Multiplayer is slightly lacking with only 4 maps and no swordfighting outside of a fast stun 
 attack. The objective mode, is a fresh experience that makes up for it, however. In a nutshell, 
 you're told via the Wiimote speaker who to kill/protect and with what. While I agree that the volume 
 is set way too loud, the Wii fortunately has an option to change it. Knock it down a few notches, 
 and you have a fun, different multiplayer mode. While arguably the volume should have been set 
 lower in the first place, it turns a game breaking moment into a 5 second tweak.
  
  In short, Red Steel is a very good game that most people seem to give up on before giving it a 
 chance. If you learn how to effectively use the Wiimote, it turns into a very fast paced, fresh 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimbo-b
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 22, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  Red Steel is FPS about Yakuza gangs and all that. Basically the plot is simple and not at all engrossing. 
 But I really enjoyed the gameplay. The gameplay is where this game shines. At least the shooting 
 parts do. The sword-play is slow and clunky, and might as well have been left out. The Wiimote 
 and Nunchuck controls shemes work out very good overall, but have a few problems. After the intitial 
 pain of trying to get used to a whole new playing style, the controls feel great, responsive, and 
 a blast to use. One of my complaints is the grenade throwing. Grenades are important in FPSs, and 
 using them takes time in this game. In order to successfully launch a grenade, first you must hold 
 the down arrow on the D-pad, which creates havoc on your aiming, then flick the Nunchuch forward 
 to launch. It feels clunky and makes it really hard to throw grenades. Graphics are decent, but 
 noticably better then most GC games. The environments look good except when you get up close to 
 them. The explosions are over the top and really fun to watch. The character models aren't bad. 
 Basically this game looks like a launch title. Decent. The sound isn't so good, featuring cheesy 
 techno songs and overdone voice acting. The voice acting was so bad at times, that I winced at 
 every syllable. Overall, Red Steel is a least worth a rent, and if you're a FPS fan, worth a buy. 
 Either way, Red Steel will show you a shadow of what will come in the future, whether it is Metroid 
 Prime 3 or some other title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: audiocranium
Rating: 2.6
Date: Nov 22, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  I bought this game from a friend for 25 bucks and I sold it to gamestop. I bought it becuase i 
 thought it would be pretty cool, sort of a mix between bond and ninja gaiden perhaps? it was hyped 
 beyond belief on the internet and i think its easily the biggest disappointment at launch. I must 
 apologize to all who bought this abomination of a game. The controls are way too sensitive, the 
 story line makes me cringe at best, and the cut scenes are something I would expect from an N64 
 game! If you end up buying this, I hope its because you want to burn it. This is gaming at its 
 worst. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thewwwyzzerdd
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Ok first of all i am not a fps fan, and i have played little of the single player. I almost never 
 play first person shooters, and i never really enjoy the single player... Having said that i have 
 about 45 min. of single player play and can respect the 5.5 rating gs gave this game. however i 
 believe that the multi player is truly where this game shines. there is no other shooter out there 
 like this one, and if you grade on graphics and such you wont be a fan. I was really disappointed 
 that most of the reviews im reading concentrate on the single player of this game. THIS SYSTEM 
 WAS MADE FOR MULTI-PLAYER!!! the game had a distinct goldeneye (n64) kind of feel, and thats not 
 a bad thing in my opinion. The game sticks to the roots of fps and does its job at keeping things 
 simple. I think that learning to play this game with friends and watching everyone slowly find 
 there niche is both satisfying and fun. If your looking for a good multi-player game i recommend 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrozenNinja
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  (Whoo, First reveiw i've done!)
  
  I like to keep things fairly short, so here it goes:
  Red steel is defintely not easy to pick up and play, infact you will find it quite loathsome for 
 probaly the first level or so. Want to resolve this problem? Stand up. I found that while standing 
 this game is signifcantly easier to play. Though unfortunately now that you can actually hit things 
 decently... Uhh... It's not to hard. Infact you can actually kill an enemy with one shot to the 
 foot with a magnum... Yeah... Sword fighting is really fun, even if it is a little wonky at times.
 
  
  I have no complaints with the sound, the effects are nice and I love the music (though if you don't 
 like techno you probaly won't care for it) . The story is... I guess you could say it's essentialy 
 double dragons except your girl was taken by a yakuza clan and not machine gun wily.
  
  The visuals are also pretty nice, though theres something wrong with Scotts arm.. You have to see 
 it really... Overall I found Red Steel to be very fun, but not without it's faults. I'm hopeing 
 for a sequel anyway, with a few of the gamplay mechanics patched up it could be a really awesome 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackfire210
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 21, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Although Red Steel doesn't live up to it's large hype for the Wii, that doesn't mean this game 
 is bad. If you picked it up and played I could almost guarantee that you would hate it, the bad 
 controls, the horrid framerate and the annoying screams from CPUs. But after playing a good hour, 
 you grow to like it, the controls grow, you take a good look at the visuals, I myself completely 
 ignore the screaming idiots now but hey, that's just me. The sword duels... What made Red Steel 
 hyped so much, this definitely doesn't live up to the standard we built for it, preset animations 
 for what direction you swing in, and with any sensitivity it still doesn't record all my movements, 
 as long as you learn dodging you're fine, I find blocking utterly useless, the nunchuck's motion 
 detection doesn't work..... at all, it won't register your movements as much as you make them, which 
 means that last fatal blow that you try to block killed you because the controller didn't react. 
 I've spent roughly 5 hours into this and I'm 40% done, long way to go it seems. Let me overrun 
 everything once...
  
  Gameplay: Not very new, an FPS, swords are in it yes, but they are a pretty useless addition.
 
  
  Graphics: This bypasses my standards for the WIi by a longshot, but, choppy framerate means that 
 this game is pushing the limit.
  
  Sound: The Asian themed music fits well, but when you listen to it on loop just from walking around 
 you will get annoyed, gunfight music tends to become annoying too.
  
  Value: I won't answer this one considering I haven't beaten it and I have yet to play multiplayer (If 
 the bastard didn't take 3 nunchucks....)
  
  I'd say this game deserves a 7.9, higher than most, but it all seems average really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -KoN-
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 21, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I'm just going to give it to you straight Red Steel is a total letdown. I remember waitting in 
 line for the Wii last Saturday Nov. 18 talking to some people about the Wii. We were all like yah 
 Zelda is going to be awesome then I brought Red Steel up and all 5 of them cancelled their preorders 
 when they saw GS's review. So I was trying to stick up for Red steel saying like, oh don't judge 
 a game until you try it for yourself; you know stuff like that. Well the day finally came Nov. 
 19 I as so excited getting Zelda, Red Steel and Madden with 2 other controllers with my Wii. When 
 I bought it I said later to my buds at Target and went home to play the Wii. I got it all set up 
 and said, I'll try Red Steel first. So when I started the games storymode it showed a bunch of 
 scetch art while they were talking instaed of video's (lazy Ubisoft) . Then some dude gets shot 
 with a gun and it looks all blocky and then they take your fi'ance. I was like WTF this game already 
 started out bad. So the graphics are bad they could of tried a little bit harder. and the gameplay 
 is all right. Be aware the game is glitchy a lot some times the A. I is stupid like sometimes they 
 just walk into walls. The swordplay sometimes doesn't work. And when you put the aim and look controls 
 in the same hand it gets kind of difficult. Like sometimes you shoot the wall when your nervous 
 and the computer kills you *note* controls are really HARD. And the multiplayer makes the game 
 a little bit better, but still pretty bad though. Also no blood in the game what so ever and no 
 online play. Basicly if Ubisoft wanted advice from me change the look controlls to the nunchuck 
 and delay it to at least Jan. 2007 to make it online and to polish it up. Baicly a total letdown. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crisisinlondon1
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 21, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  I'll be honest, when i read the review hours before I got my Wii I almost decided on a new game. 
 However as I thought it over I knew that I had to try it for myself, so I picked up Red Steel at 
 launch. When I first started playing it took a little while for me to get used to the controls, 
 but within half an hour I had a good grasp of the basic controls. My first thought as I was playing 
 was This feels like Goldeneye... Despite the fact many and I mean many will disagree that's the 
 vibe it gave me. After going about 6 hours into the game the story is a little convoluted and can 
 at times be hard to keep up with but hey, it's a shooter so it doesn't bug me so badly.
  
  Back on the controls, most already know how they work. You turn and aim with the Remote and use 
 the nun chuck analog stick to move. The nun chuck also serves for reloading, opening doors and 
 performing various other actions. This is where one of the larger problems lies however. I found 
 my cursor simply skipping off the screen without warning. This caused some problems at first but 
 after I repositioned my sensor bar it improved a little, but occasionally the problem rears its 
 ugly head.
  
  On a positive note, Red Steel is a very nice looking game. The Wii is as you all know not a graphical 
 powerhouse but Red Steel manages to pump out some pretty nice visuals. The weapons look great and 
 the firing effects are excellent. Environments feel very engrossing and vary nicely. Character 
 models are good looking, but repeat often. There's a certain art style to Red Steel that makes 
 some characters more exaggerated looking than others. This balances out however and all adds up 
 to make one of the better looking launch titles.
  
  As far as sound is concerned Red Steel has its ups and downs. Gun effects sound great and the added 
 speaker in the remote make noises when you reload and such. The voice acting is nicely delivered 
 although some may find it overdone. The in game music is very nicely done and plays at all the 
 right times. Sometimes however, it can be easy to lose the music in the midst of the gunfire, explosion, 
 and enemy chatter. The enemies will often taunt you or threaten you but this is where the game 
 has some problems. They repeat the same lines in every level and I mean A LOT. This is only a minor 
 issue though and the game still sounds great.
  
  To bring this review to an end, I have to say while Red Steel is a great shooter I have to talk 
 about one of the biggest parts. The sword fighting element pits you against an enemy armed with 
 a melee weapon. During these fun albeit brief sections you can not draw a firearm but use a sword. 
 You actually have two, but one is broken in half and is use to parry and occasionally disarm you're 
 opponent. These parts have you using the remote and nun chuck to control each one individually. 
 While this is an interesting concept and is very fun sometimes the controls feel to slow to keep 
 up with the action. You'll find yourself swinging without getting a reaction time to time.
  
  In closing Red Steel is a Love it or Hate it game. I myself found it rather easy to see past 
 the flaws to find the core shooter, which provides tons of explosions, some crazy shootouts, and 
 very interesting sword sequences. If you aren't sure about it you should simply rent the game and 
 see how you feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doodleduh7
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 21, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel-A game of gun and swordplay. Like most people, this game was a must-buy for me. Swordplay 
 that is motion sensing? Of course I want it. When I first played it, after about 15 minutes, I 
 was horrified. I put the game away, not wanting to tell anyone about 50 wasted dollars.
  
  I got the game out a while after that, just to try again and hope I had been dreaming the first 
 time. Surprisingly, this time the game felt better. I had more control over the game and my gun. 
 After a while, I found myself yelling at the enemies. I was really into the game.
  
  Gameplay- Very good. The first shooting game with motion sensing does it's job well. Incredibly 
 innovative, with a few flaws with swordfighting.
  
  Graphics- Perfect. I find the graphics to be incredible.
  
  Sound- Again, perfect. The music 
 really captures the Japanese culture, and the sounds made in battle is very realistic.
  
  Overall, a superb game. Good for anyone who wants a shooting game without any gore and blood. I 
 would like a little swearing to be taken out, though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valmier
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 21, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  When I got Red Steel, I was a little disappointed. I expected it to be a little more than it was. 
 However, through more playing, I found that I was having fun! This is an immersive gameplay experience 
 unlike any seen to date. The Wii Remote controls and the use of the Nunchuck (flipping over tables 
 for cover, blocking attacks during swordfights, tossing grenades or rolling them along the ground) 
 make for an experience that still glows through its flaws. Though it is definitely not perfect 
 (the graphics are fair, disappointingly simple storyline, swordplay isn't as good as hoped) , it 
 is a very enjoyable game that I would easily recommend to anyone hoping for a good, interactive 
 experience on the Wii. Or anyone, really. It's a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raquor
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 21, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  Red Steel is the 2nd most popular launch game (after Zelda) . Does it deliver? I think it does though 
 I would advise people to rent it before purchasing.
  
  Gameplay: It's a shooter, expect to shoot people. The shooter gameplay falls into an average slot... it's 
 not terrible, but it's not super fantastic either.
  
  Graphics: The graphics look more like an early Gamecube title than a high quality one. Compare 
 it to Zelda: Twilight Princess which is basically a the high end of a gamecube game. It just doesnt 
 compare but it doesnt take that much away.
  
  Sound: It's a shooter, there are gunshots. Not much else to really notice or pay attention to. 
 Voice overs aren't that bad, sound effects are pretty decent. Overall nothing to really complain 
 about but nothing to praise either.
  
  Value: Considering that this provides a glimpse of what future FPS's on the Wii should be able 
 to accomplish this game is amazing. If it had 3-6 months more development it'd be a solid 8-9 rated 
 game.
  
  Tilt: I very much enjoy shooting via the Wii Remote and like the new approach to playing an FPS 
 game.
  
  Controls: The shooting controls aren't bad at all. Point, shoot. Pretty simple.
  The Swordplay controls are shoddy and drag the overall impression of the game down. I felt like 
 a moron flailing my arms about trying to kill the bad guy. They should've lost the dagger parry 
 weapon and focused on solid sword movement. Instead the swordplay feels like it's more gesture 
 based than motion tracking.
  
  Other bits: I'd really prefer a button for opening doors and things but the controls for this do 
 work so no big complaint here. Reloading is done by jerking the nunchuk up which isn't all that 
 different from arcade style shooter reloading systems so again no complaints.
  
  Overall: This game deserves a chance. At least spend the $5 to rent it and see what lies ahead 
 for the Wii and FPS games. It's a much better system than using joysticks in my opinion and really 
 to me it's better than a mouse and keyboard as well. The next FPS should be really great whether 
 it be Metroid Prime 3 or some other FPS I'm very much looking forward to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firefly1jedi
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 21, 2006 7:33 am PT
Review:  Red steel is a really great game for the Wii, the graphics may be a little shot-ty and there may 
 be some glitches, but the reason people buy the Wii is not for the graphics, but for the game play, 
 which red steel delivers!! At first you r meeting your girlfriends father which happens to be very 
 important, then when a group of thugs attack him and his guards at a restaurant and steel your 
 girlfriend you have nothing else to do but fight through the groups of thugs and save her!! At 
 first it is some what difficult to get used to the remote, but give it a couple of levels and u 
 will have it down pat with your dunking and shooting, so don't give up right away!! Now the sword 
 fighting is what I most enjoyed!! I thought that it was going to be a lot more difficult then it 
 was, I caught on pretty quick and was taken out guys left and right, at the end of the battle u 
 also get to choose to let the other swordsmen live or die (Living: U get 50 honor points which 
 leads to more combos. Death: gives u nothing but the pleasure of killing and that's it... it's 
 your choice) I totally loved the swordplay even though sometimes it does get a little glitchy and 
 there is just some people that take forever to kill do to the fact that they tend to block constantly 
 which drives u NUTS!!! But in the end it is pretty sweet!!
  
  All I can say about this game is that you just have to play it for yourself! even though some say 
 that it stinks and others say that it rocks the only thing that u can really do is go to the video 
 store and rent it for yourself and get your own perspective on it, don't ;listen to me or anyone 
 else just go get it and see what YOU think!! Hope that u like it.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellfaucet
Rating: 5.1
Date: Nov 21, 2006 12:45 am PT
Review:  I mean, can you HONESTLY be so stupid as to make the control schematics for a game SO BAD that 
 the player thinks the game is hard? Because Ubisoft, that's exactly what you did.
  
  This game is hard, really hard. It's not because the enemies have great AI, it's not because the 
 levels are really well-thought out and challenging to navigate through, and it's not because of 
 sadism. It's because the developers of this game are idiots and made the controls of this game 
 so glitchy, awkward, and cumbersome that the player has to spend more time focusing their own body 
 to unnaturally try and work the controls than they do on shooting the bad guys stupidly shooting 
 at you.
  
  There were WAY too many times that I yelled SHOOT HIM, HE'S RIGHT **** IN FRONT OF YOU at my on-screen 
 personality regaining his vision after glitching out after an erratic Wiimote movement.
  
  IDIOTS.
  
  To their credit, the multiplayer isn't as AWFUL as the single player, very Goldeneye-like, 
 but it still sucks and get's boring after 5 minutes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chargers0721
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2006 11:56 pm PT
Review:  ok this is a pretty good game but it seem as though u have done it over and over again. the gameplay 
 is rather intriguing . at first this game's controlls will make u rip ur hair out, aftre playing 
 the game for a couple hours i started to relize that the conrols felt just right and were utterly 
 rewarding. The first two lvls i was telling myself that this was a horrible game that i had wasted 
 50 bucks on , believe me dont belive the hype but at least give it a good rent and make ur decision, 
 the graphics in this game are at first glance good but with the jappanesse art cut scence u feel 
 that they were trying to avoid the in game cutscencs, overall i thinks its prettty decent once 
 u pass the mount everest steep learning curve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inferno636
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel was rather an attempt for the first Wii shooter rather than paving the for Wii shooters. 
 When you play a game like this with just a regular controller it's probably one of the worst games 
 ever but with the experience of the Wiimote this game is made into something better. Red Steel's 
 gameplay is probably the big standing point of the game since it's the only game to acctually use 
 the Wiimote all the time. You use the Wiimote to aim at the screen while the nunchuck is used for 
 movement, grenades, etc. While the Wiimote and Nunchuck are also used for firstperson sword fights 
 which take up about 20% of the game. The sword fights do use built in animations according to your 
 swings which isn't as cool as a completely reanimation of your movements but still makes fighting 
 sword fights worth it. It works okay but it's definetely not the most immersive experience ever 
 but definetely intutive to keep you going. The A. I. is the dumbest I've seen this year with inaccurate 
 covering and the hard to quit habit of standing up all day behind a table and shooting mindlessly. 
 At the same time though it's pretty satisfying to shoot a guy in the face with your Wiimote or 
 give that final move to your opponent in a sword fight. Of course, no one was expecting graphics 
 to match the PS3 with this game but the graphics are worked on good enough to give the game its 
 own feel. There is cases of launchatopis where there are minor composite bugs in ragdoll, lighting, 
 etc. But nothing that can drive you crazy. Ubisoft obviously scored a winner with the music and 
 sounds. The game has a mixture of rock, pop, cultural japenese, and occasional drumming to keep 
 the flow going even in times of silence. The game has a multiplayer feature and a good replay level 
 selection but nothing really lives up to making you want to play this game for the rest of your 
 life since the multiplayer is not to good looking or special but still serves its purpose to let 
 everybody have fun fighting eachother. Replaying levels can be fun but only if you have a level 
 you really liked or else this doesn't really serve much of a purpose until next year when you get 
 bored. The story was also showing signs of being rushed and quickly made since there was no real 
 cinematics just 2D images inbetween missions. But all I can really call it is an excuse to go blowing 
 up Yakuzas. Otherwise Red Steel is worth playing for Wii owners and a nice rent for the average 
 gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hghpandaman
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 20, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  I must say i am pretty appalled at the current reviews for Red Steel ( One of the more popular 
 Wii launch games.) The Wii is a completely new and innovative system as anyone reading this review 
 will know, therefore, one is going to have to cut developers some slack for minor nuences within 
 there games. I'm going to be hitting a few points in this review, so pick up a soda (or beer) and 
 sit back.
  
  First of all we're going to talk about the graphics. The graphics in this game are about on par 
 with a high quality gamecube game. Reflective textures, while kept to a minimum for obvious reasons, 
 are still extremely effective touches. In a shooter, by far the most important items you will be 
 seeing are the weapons, and in Red Steel you will be seeing a lot of them! The guns are very detailed, 
 and are emulated simi-realistically. The blowback on the pistol seems to be a little bit slow compared 
 to a real life gun, but i'm not going to be complaining about that. The real impact of this game 
 comes from the many sword fights you will encounter throughout your experience. The swords in this 
 game look very nice, with minor glares on them and motion blurs from singing. The only really big 
 complaint i have with the graphics is something i noticed during a multi-player match at my friends 
 house. If your holding a two handed weapon and move the controller up and to the left, the arm 
 in the game appears to be broken and looks painful. Overall the graphics are nice, there are still 
 some minor problems, but nothing that can't be forgivin due to the fact of the Wii being so new.
 
  
  There isn't much to say about the sound in the game. It's a shooter, and you hear guns. The guns 
 don't sound better that any other shooter i've played, but the biggest gimmick of the wii is the 
 speaker built into the remote. I really don't feel that it adds much to the experience, but it's 
 an interesting addition non the less.
  
  Finally, I would like to hit the controls, by far the most controversial topic with this game. 
 The controls are not forgiving, I must say that. If you run headlong into a large room during a 
 firefight, your bound to be killed. The reason for this is because the neutral zone in the center 
 of the screen where the view won't move is a little bit too large, so it takes a little longer 
 than normal to turn. That being said, I would still prefer this game over any other console first 
 person shooter. It's much more similar to a PC shooter than any other console game I've played.
 
  
  Overall, Red Steel is a great buy if your looking for an action packed shooter for your Wii. If 
 CoD 3 had multiplayer had multiplayer, i would prefer that, but having multiplayer is icing on 
 the cate of a game which is very representitive of what the wii can do. Now i say C'mon guys it's 
 a brand new system, give developers a chance and don't turn them down because the control scheme 
 has a steep learning curve! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Umgar
Rating: 3.3
Date: Nov 20, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Before you play Red Steel I want you to do something. Go grab 'Time Splitters 2' and play for about 
 30 minutes. I'll wait.
  
  Still pretty fun despite aging graphics right? That's what a really good FPS should be - fun even 
 after the shine of new graphics has worn off years later. Red Steel definitely does not score points 
 in the graphics department, it looks *worse* than games that came out for the Gamecube, PS2, and 
 Xbox years ago. And it certainly can't hold a candle to 'Gears of War' or 'Resistance: Fall of 
 Man' from the new generation of consoles.
  
  So one would hope that a game on the revolutionary Wii platform would be able to make up for mediocre 
 visuals in other ways - gameplay, story, sound? Nope. Red Steel will be fun for the first hour 
 or so as you experience the FPS genre on the Wiimote for the first time, but once the newness of 
 that experience wears off (and it won't take as long as you think) you are left with one of the 
 worst FPS games ever made.
  
  The story is trite and completely unimaginative. The settings are boring and linear; don't expect 
 to be doing any exploring in this game. The dialog is so bad that you will find yourself laughing 
 out loud. The background music sounds like a demo track on an electronic keyboard and the sound 
 affects are equally dull. The weapons are boring. The characters are boring. Are you seeing a common 
 theme here?
  
  Once you get the hang of using the Wiimote to play you will also find that the game is ridiculously 
 easy. It's nearly impossible to die in even the fiercest firefights, and the sword battles are 
 a total joke - a combination of waving your right hand back and forth and using the Nunchuck to 
 continually dodge in one direction will end every dual without taking damage.
  
  If you've purchased a Wii do yourself a favor - pick up Zelda: Twilight Princess and avoid the 
 debacle that is Red Steel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talnar85
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 20, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Waited for the Wii and Red Steel outside a Best Buy, the game itself is worth the time do to it 
 is a new way to play shooters and it will give those who play this and Call of Duty 3 an edge on 
 Metriod Prime 3 when it comes out.
  
  The game play of Red Steel is a little slow but I think its worth the training, I have spent a 
 little over 5hrs in the game. If your willing to spend some time to learn the game its worth it. 
 I have yet to get a multiplayer game going but I think it will be fun to see how that is going 
 to work out in any of the shooters for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hollin24
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 20, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  Picked this game up with the Wii, and i must say I liked it. The controls at first are kind of 
 confusing with the cursor and all. Once you get into it, its fun. The sword fights might not be 
 the best , but once you learn how to do everything its a fun game. The storyline isnt the best 
 but youll find yourself wanting to finish the game because of it. the vioce acting IS terrible 
 but most games dont have good vioce acting anyway. but this game definitely does not deserve to 
 be a 5.5 so i remend if you dont buy it at leased rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berto628
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 20, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  There is a reason that Stephen Segal is still making tons of money in movies. Whether it's straight-to-DVD 
 or in theaters, people watch those movies simply because they are just that: Stephen Segal Movies. 
 They're full of action, overdrawn stereotypes, and campy humor. Plot, dialogue, and cinematography 
 come second to the outrageous action sequences and 1-man-army odds that fill those films and others 
 like them.
  
  Red Steel follows those tried-and-true features to a T. It's not as pretty as Gears of War or as 
 smooth as F. E. A. R, but by no means does the game look bad and the environments react fantastically 
 to gunfire. It's not as well written as Final Fantasy XII or as well acted as Metal Gear Solid, 
 but the voice acting is solid and the plot is present enough to keep you interested in slashing 
 and blasting the bad guys. All in all, the action is frantic, the control scheme is fluid and intuitive, 
 and the stereotypes and campy humor are dead on.
  
  Many people discount the game because they picked it up and expected to wield a katana like Miyamoto 
 Musashi or gun from room to room like Inspector Tequila. When that didn't happen, they called the 
 game clunky, and began berating everything they didn't like about the title before playing at it 
 enough to appreciate the control scheme. Flaws are easier to point out when you have no love for 
 the target to begin with.
  
  Remember the first time you used an analog stick? Go back and look at reviews of some of the Nintendo 
 64 titles that used the analog stick. They were called the same names. Now not one, but two analog 
 sticks are an absolute must to effectively play a console-based shooter. The point here is that 
 no one mastered analog control the first day they used it. Aiming in Red Steel takes some getting 
 used to, but soon enough you'll be running from cover to cover, wildly flailing an Uzi back and 
 forth as though you were born with the WiiMote in your hand. The sword fighting seems to have been 
 given the same review treatment as the gun play. Many players seem to want the sword on screen 
 to mimic their actions with the WiiMote. Remember, Ubisoft explicitly stated that swordfighting 
 in Red Steel would not be a 1:1 imitation of what the player is doing with the controller. Instead, 
 the player is given sword katas to use in combat (defining a series of movements with the WiiMote 
 to execute them) , similar to how other games require the player to press a series of buttons to 
 do a combination attack. The results of these kata motions range from flashy to vicious, and once 
 the player learns the limitations of the motion-based attacks, swordplay goes from clunky to smooth, 
 fast, and intense. There are, admittedly, some issues with the game that should be noted. From 
 time to time the aiming system glitches out, although this seems to be more of a hardware issue 
 than the game itself. The consequences, however, are only slight annoyance because of how forgiving 
 the gunfights usually are (hide for a few seconds to regenerate your health) . Cosmetic problems 
 abound, such as clipping and lower-than-desirable resolution textures. Occasionally, some enemies 
 won't respond to you, but for the most part the AI moves and attacks well. One gripe in particular 
 is that the game does not have the option to skip cut scenes, so you must watch them each time 
 you start a particular level, should that level be preceded by a cut scene.
  
  Overall, Red Steel is a satisfying purchase for this gamer because of it's unique and relatively 
 concrete control scheme, fast paced action, and smooth swordplay. There have been many occasions 
 where I have gasped in amazement at the outcome of a gunfight or a flashy sword move mid-game. 
 While the plot may feel bland, the fierce action is enough to keep you going from room to room, 
 blasting and slashing your way towards your gorgeous fiance similar to the way an innovative (albeit 
 devoid of plot line) , 8-bit plumber jumped, shroomed, and burned his way to a princess all those 
 years ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dante565
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 20, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  When first laying eyes on Red Steel you see what looks like a promising game full of fun and excitement 
 but soon after you begin to realize that maybe you were wrong. I feel this game was rushed to make 
 the launch which results can be seen in the game of that push. The controls do take some getting 
 used to but after a while you can play throuh it with relatively little difficulty but other than 
 that the game could have more to offer if it was not pushed for release. The graphics are nothing 
 to impressive but the Wii focuses on Functionality rather than graphical power. I must admit this 
 game had some fun areas in it but overall is a pretty standard game. Im glad to see the Wii controller 
 is very useful for this game but they could have done better. Still i believe give this game a 
 shot before just ignoring it. Happy gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_Ewok178
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 20, 2006 7:29 am PT
Review:  Wth all the review of this game, it's not as bad as is being said. I'm just saying the game has 
 a very steep learning curve. For me the first hour of me playing it I hated, but now after a couple 
 more I really like it. People have to get used to the idea of point and shoot, not 2 joysticks. 
 At first the games feels very sensitive, but you can change that in options. If your worried about 
 your accuracy don't, just press a and move the remote forward for a lock on, it works quite well. 
 Another think I thought was neat is using the nunchuck for certain actions like stabbing people, 
 opening doors or flipping a table. Sword fights are ok, a little slow from time to time.
  
  Overall gameplay was good, once you get use to it. Graphics ok, but it would have been nice to 
 see some really cut scenes, not that comicbook thing. Sound was good, and I thinks it's pretty 
 cool to hear some sounds from the remote. Value i'm not sure since I haven't beaten it yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D00MGIVER
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 29, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  I played this game for a week, then let it sit on my shelf for the next 2 months. I sold it. The 
 single-player mode was extrordinarily repetitive, and and the sword-play was difficult to use.
 
  
  Multi-player was terrible because of terribly small levels + screenlooking + no online.
  
  You also get to use every weapon in the entire game within the first 4-5 levels of using the 
 game. Also, there are 3 weapons you should have with you, but only 2 slots.
  
  All that said though, the bit about aiming at the screen to shoot was a great idea, and working 
 quite nicely. The environment was pretty dynamic, and had lots of shoot-to-blow-up stuff like cars 
 and barrels. However, this was all downplayed by simple AI, short hunt-and-retrieve missions, and 
 unexpectedly bad swordplay (which occured way too often) .
  
  Fun for a while, then boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StaticPlayer
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 20, 2006 12:07 am PT
Review:  I think nintendo has set the expectations of the games a bit too far. Upon seeing the new controller 
 and seeing how it works, we were all amazed. But now that we are not seeing it anymore, but rather 
 feeing it in action, feeling the revolution I mean Wii controllers. Yeah i know this is a first 
 gen game, and even some PS3 games and first gen 360 games felt like they where tacked on. This 
 game was either rushed, or made without much thought. Sure by the time 2nd or 3rd gen games roll 
 around, the controls will be very intuitive, and responsive, and actually fun to play. However, 
 This new great revoluionary controller doesn't make the game. Not when the Ai is utter crap, the 
 story is something I can make up myself, and there is no replay value for multiplayer or whatnot, 
 the game is crap. Notice how I didn't even bash the graphics or the sound since Nintendo openly 
 admits they are not competing with Sony and Microsoft graphically + sound-wise.
  Red steel is Ubisoft's way to get paid while they get some programming experience for the Wii. 
 The games will get better, after developers, and the consumers learn that playing broken down games 
 with pretty graphics (PS3, and Xbox360) , or a new controller (Wii) , doesn't make the game any better 
 even if you have used all the new hardware, becasue you forgot the gameplay. Most 1st gen games 
 are that way, red steel is one of them, I'm gonna get what store credit I can on this game and 
 probably pick up another Wii game instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Henilla
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Though this game is far from perfect, it is quite fun once you learn how to play it, which takes 
 some time, Just give it about 20-30minutes and you'll get it and will be able to enjoy it. Aiming 
 takes some getting used to and I still have a hard time turning to my left. The graphics are okay, 
 backgrounds are quite dull (no blood) . Enemy AI is shakey, sword fighting is pretty cool. One thing 
 I must say is that I have NEVER sweated and felt tired while playing a game, I mean I almost felt 
 like I was there. All in all the game shows us what the future of gaming may be like, good game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shotgun4292
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2006 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Red steel a ffun game but really hard to aim and besides that it is a prettty good game. This is 
 one of the first wii first person shooter sure it wasn't the best ever and it was hard to control 
 and well what were you exspecting this was a first try there were no other wii firsr person shooters 
 to look at this was the firsst one it did adeeasent job. The graphics were all right and I thought 
 it was fun to play and it really uses all the buttons on thr wii remote but htis is onlt a start 
 to the wiis first person shooters and I exspect better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonballgt05
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  well i think its a good game, fun and exciting to play because of the new innovative way of playing 
 it. Of that aspect it is a good game but it does have its problems such as few glitches, hard to 
 move and not that good graphics. But remember this , it is a rushed title like alot of other new 
 games for ps3 and nintendo wii. The games will get better so just loosen up and have fun with it. 
 i have aim and yahoo if you want to talk. my aim is mrniceguy81290 and my yahoo is diablohackv10. 
 ill be looking forward to hearing from you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kyzamo2889
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  dont waste your time buying this game... its so confusing when u first start it and from what it 
 looks like playing it today for the first time its going to be a sucky game......... and another 
 thing you cant save it at all i was though 2 diffucult levels and i was done ( shoulder and arms 
 getting tired) and i was looking for a save option and couldnt find one....
  The Sword sequences in this game are bad too... they take up too much time and they hurt your whole 
 arm.... the only good thing about this game is either the story line or that u have a gun... I am 
 very unhappy with my purchase! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mo2521
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  The Wii is not about graphics, it is about revolutionizing gameplay. It's not fair to compare this 
 to the graphic wonders from the 360 and the PS3. Red Steel is a solid shooter that will is a step 
 away from what video games have been, and a step towards what video games can be. It takes some 
 time to get used to the controls so be patient! If you stick with this game you will discover what 
 the Wii is trying to do, which is provide gameplay that is considerably more realistic than what 
 we are accustomed to. If you are a Nintendo fanatic, I strongly recommend this game. If not, it's 
 still worth giving a try so rent it or buy it used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reptile711
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Ubisoft Paris first unveiled their first Nintendo Wii game since E3 2006 and back then, the graphics 
 were nasty, the gameplay was clumsy, and the controls were just hard... Well. One and a half years 
 later, the graphics are much better, the gameplay is still a bit clumsy, and the controls are still 
 hard. That's not to say it's a great game. Red Steel is about Scott, an american male who is engaged 
 to Mihu, a Japanese-American woman. In the process, it is revealed that Mihu's father is an ex-Yakuza. 
 He is soon killed and the girl, kidnapped; by a power-hungry Yakuza gangleader. This entails Scott 
 to master his gun and his sword.
  
  Gameplay:
  What we see here is a product being rushed to the Nov 19 release date. Ubisoft was working very 
 hard to make this a great shooter, but Red Steel lacks a lot of structure that makes an FPS fun. 
 Slow turning, harsh glitches in graphical and controllable display, and messy initiative come into 
 play. Red Steel REALLY requires you to play the game at least 20-30 minutes before you actually 
 get the hang of it. It's not complicated, but it's not easy either. What is great is the creativity. 
 You zoom and cover yourself by different gestures and the sword fighting, while flawed, still is 
 great fun.
  
  Graphics:
  Possibly the reason why Red Steel will sell is because of its graphics. It's definitely one of 
 the best looking games on the Wii. However it has a few problems. One: Ubisoft definitely touched 
 up some Hi-rez picks to make the game look better than it actually is. Two: Many problems with 
 jaggies. It's just plain nasty to look at them. Three: There are some nasty glitches in movement 
 and character models that really dumb it down. But overall, the lighting, particle effects, destructible 
 objects, and nice rim light on the character models really bring out the style of the game; which 
 is really derived from manga/noir genres.
  
  Sound:
  Great stuff. Seriously. The soundtrack is amazing with lots of energy and it's very immersive. 
 When enemies are near, you know when they are here just by the music that is played. The sword 
 clashes are just beautifully synced and created and the gunshots are just beautiful. The only minor 
 problem is the ridiculously crappy voice acting. It just doesn't cut it. I've seen better voice 
 acting using my grandma, literally. It's just horrendous. But all in all, it's a great tool that 
 is well-used.
  
  Value:
  With about 14-16 hours of gameplay, this game is a nonstop action-packed game. I think it is well 
 worth the 50 dollars, as I payed for Resident Evil 4 with the same amount of gameplay. And I think 
 I can play this game at least twice. So I don't see too much of a worry about it being a rip off. 
 however, those who are skeptical based on some reviews need to rent this game. Because I can't 
 really say it's DEFINITELY worth keeping. You might want to just rent it and put it back on the 
 shelf.
  
  Overall:
  This game is great, but it has many flaws which are real hardhitters. If Ubisoft delayed this game 
 for a few months, I'm sure many editors would be a lot happier playing this game because it feels 
 rushed and unfinished. Nintendo could have also advised them more because they were the guys who 
 let Ubi have the getgo on things. So this game is a nice game to play, but it just has a lot of 
 stuff missing that could've been added. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GnarlsB
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 6, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  The second game I got for the Wii and it's a good one, Red Steel pits you into a Yakuza enviroment 
 complete with crazy gangsters and a blah story. Although some points of this game are not so good, 
 it is for sure worth your time playing and it showcases much of the Wii's unique games.
  
  Pros+: Awesome shooting gamplay mechanics, Graphics are nicely done with tons of lightings effects, 
 explosions, you name it, Sword fighting is done nice and is fun to boot, Story mode is crazy to 
 follow, but it works, Soundtrack is nicely done, 2-player action is fun for a while.
  
  Cons-: Controls are a little bit floaty, but nothing bad enough to make you frustrated, 2-player 
 modes really don't have exciting options to keep you interested enough, Voice acting, Some noticble 
 glitches and bugs.
  
  Overall: If you just got a Wii, rent this game, it's one of the Wii's best launch titles, but that's 
 not really saying something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zelda187
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  I definately don't think it's worthy of a AAA or high AA score at all, but it's better than 5.5/10 
 for sure.
  
  The animations are a little jaggy in some spots but the gameplay is fun. It looks like a last gen 
 game, but it does put the Wiimote to good use. It's not the kind of game that will drop your jaw, 
 but it's a solid pick me up when your bored game.
  
  Red Steel is..... fun. If you want to play a solid FPS game then it'll be worth your while. Just 
 don't expect it to be in the same category as Halo, Half Life, Metroid, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninjo222
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 19, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  To keep it short, Red Steel is about your fiance getting captured, and then your quest to save 
 her and do some stuff for mafia/yakuza reasons along the way. I pre-ordered the game awhile back 
 from EB and when I saw GS's review I was quite nervous about my purchase, but after playing it 
 I'm really quite happy.
  
  First the controls, they perform pretty well, certainly better than many people have been ragging 
 on it for forever. The bounding box and options work nicely. Their is sort of a high learning curve 
 on the controls, not so much for during action but moving around or whatever is fairly difficult 
 to remember that your right hand cannot just drift off and go idle or you'll be looking ever direction 
 till you get recentered. That being said, swordfighting is easy and worked well, and the only control 
 I had a problem with was the zoom by moving the controller forward (which did not act responsive 
 for me) .
  
  Presentation is good, the graphics and sound are quite good. My only issue is the fact that the 
 Wii-mote speaker has such low sound quality. Also the gunshots could have been louder and more 
 unique. The levels are nothing fantastic, but they are def cool.
  
  Lastly, all around gameplay. If you like 007 Goldeneye, you will probably like this game. It plays 
 well, and is quite fun despite sometimes foolish AI. My only issue with gameplay is you should 
 have been able to do more stuff to make cover than just flip tables, like pull open doors on the 
 various ovens, electrical boxes, and other items like that in many levels. This game was not 100% 
 with no great areas, but is all-in-all a very good release game especially to rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoubleAxe
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 19, 2006 1:27 am PT
Review:  This game is FUN.... and truthfully isnt that all that matters ??? This game brings back memories 
 of good old times I had with Golden Eye. The graphics are nice in some areas, bad in others... 
 totally feels like a game that should have come out 2 years ago... but the controls are definatly 
 very nice and make up for the lack in graphics. Yes the game has some tiny bugs, nothing major 
 that Ive seen so far... and it definatly controls better then what Im seeing in the videos, I got 
 the hang of it quite fast. Definatley check out this game, even if you must borrow or rent it. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
