-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/residentevil4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Intuitive, elegant controls make playing RE4 a joy all over again.
 Nail-biting action features creepy enemies and gargantuan bosses.
 Top-notch production values create an atmosphere of tension and dread.
 Long, suspenseful story and excellent replay value make this a steal for 30 bucks.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The controls soften the difficulty level a bit.
 No Wii-specific content.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 19, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 9.1, 62 Review (s)
User Score: 9.2, 7,075 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date: Jun 19, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This is the definitive version of a modern classic and a must-play, even if you've already experienced 
 the unique thrill of Resident Evil 4 on another platform. 

  There's a very good chance that you've already played Resident Evil 4 on the GameCube or PlayStation 
 2 (or, heaven forbid, the PC) . Yet the best games are worth playing through all over again. Not 
 only does RE4 itself remain a heart-pounding thrill ride and a modern classic, but the Wii Remote 
 and Nunchuk controls breathe new life into a game that is still a treat to play, two years after 
 release.  

          Un forastero!     

  If by some miracle of chance you haven't played Resident Evil 4 yet, you've got some catching up 
 to do. You play as Leon S. Kennedy, a secret agent in charge of recovering the president's kidnapped 
 daughter. His search leads to a creepy Spanish village whose residents are, well, not quite lucid. 
 The story drops the occasional clich, but for the most part, it avoids the usual horror pratfalls 
 to deliver an interesting, intense narrative with a number of fascinating characters. It's also 
 genuinely creepy, leading you through abandoned farmhouses, dank churches, and dripping caves, 
 all the while throwing progressively weirder and stronger enemies at you. Like the PS2 version, 
 it also includes a side story called Separate Ways, where you take control of spy Ada Wong and 
 explore some of the same storyline from her perspective. Unfortunately, the Wii version doesn't 
 include any new, exclusive content.  

  At its core, this is the same Resident Evil 4 that multitudes of players have grown to appreciate. 
 It's a carefully paced, often breathtaking action game that keeps you on the edge of your seat 
 with lumbering almost-zombies, chanting cultists, and challenging fights against gargantuan bosses. 
 You view the action from a third-person view, and when you ready a weapon, the camera zooms in 
 close. Once you've drawn your weapon, you can't walk, but you can aim. It all feels very deliberate, 
 but it's perfectly countered by the measured speed at which your enemies approach you. However, 
 you shouldn't take this to mean that the action is any less exciting than in a traditional shooter. 
 These are dangerous foes, and you've got to pump them full of lead before they fall.  

  The fundamental combat is where the game shines most. Your arsenal consists of pistols, shotguns, 
 rifles, and more, with every weapon producing credible results. Popping pitchfork-wielding villagers 
 will cause them to drop their weapons. Or you can shoot them in the knees to make them momentarily 
 fall to the ground. Because ammunition isn't plentiful, being able to handle a crowd of shambling 
 psychopaths with as few shots as possible is a main priority. You've always got a knife as a last 
 resort, but unless you want to take a chunk of damage, it's better to keep your distance.  

  But what makes this release so special are the subtle differences wrought by the version's definitive 
 controls. Movement and turning are controlled using the Nunchuk's analog stick, and you enter aiming 
 mode by using the remote's B button. But the most noticeable improvement is in aiming your weapon. 
 The laser sight has been replaced with an actual reticle that you fully control with the remote, 
 which gives you more mastery over where your shots land. It's absolutely intuitive, more so than 
 the original scheme, but you shouldn't take this to mean that Resident Evil 4 on the Wii is a cakewalk. 
 You will notice an increase in your hit percentage, but hordes of Spanish not-zombies and gigantic 
 boss battles are as nerve-wracking as ever. Granted, there is a subtle softening of the difficulty 
 level due to the greater degree of control. Yet the newfound fluidness in the gunplay is a welcome 
 adjustment, and the controls still contribute to the deliberate pace.  

  Other changes are just as welcome. Getting your knife to find its mark is a lot easier thanks to 
 an auto-aim function that makes melee attacks land on the nearest available target. You can still 
 use a more familiar control scheme by holding C and pressing A to slash, but even better, you can 
 waggle the remote to do it. The same is true of reloading: You can enter aiming mode and push down 
 on the D pad to do it, or wave the remote. The famous context-sensitive actions are still a hallmark 
 of the experience, and the addition of the motion sensing makes them feel fresh again. The end 
 result of all these improvements, both subtle and obvious, is a logical and comfortable control 
 scheme that makes perfect sense and heightens your immersion.  

  Resident Evil 4 sounds as fantastic as ever. It's a sonic spookfest, from the creepy minimalist 
 soundtrack to the outstanding weapon effects. In fact, the most memorable aspects of the game are 
 accompanied by equally thrilling audio, such as the roar of the humongous bosses or the disturbing 
 murmurs of villagers as they infiltrate your personal space. But even here, the Wii version sneaks 
 in a small but notable enhancement, thanks to the remote speaker. Hearing the swoosh of the knife 
 and the clatter of reloading your shotgun emanate from your own hand sweetens an audio design that 
 was already practically perfect.  

          El Gigante is an appropriate name for this towering monstrosity.     

  On the other 
 hand, RE4 on the Wii doesn't bring anything new to the visual table, though like the PS2 version, 
 it supports progressive scan and widescreen displays. Yet it still looks superb, featuring beautifully 
 designed character models and environments that were obviously created with deliberate care and 
 detail. Of particular note are the boss characters, which get more vulgar and imposing as you progress. 
 But even the minor details are impressive, such as flocks of crows that flutter away as you approach 
 or the way flames flicker realistically. And unlike the PS2 and PC versions, which used prerendered 
 cutscenes, the engine renders them in real time here, making the scenes look more natural.  

  Resident Evil 4 isn't quite as groundbreaking now as it was two years ago when it was first released 
 on the GameCube, but that doesn't make the Wii version any less dazzling. It is undoubtedly the 
 preferred version for anyone who has yet to experience the thrill of climbing up El Gigante's back, 
 and even if you already have had such an experience in the past, this iteration is still most certainly 
 worth playing. The exquisite controls make this the defining Wii action title and a must-play for 
 anyone who enjoys the act of shooting things.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (578 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Shadowtails9000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Okay, first off; I own the title for PS2, in fact, it was my first horror game of all time. I was 
 terrified then playing it, but loved it all the same. If not for Resident Evil 4, I never would 
 have played Silent Hill, Fatal Frame, or even Fear! So for Easter, as a gift, I got the Wii edition 
 of Resident Evil 4. I was excited to check this port out, but still a little worried, as it is; 
 after all, just a port. Luckily, RE4: Wii edition offered not only a great game, but redefined it! 
 I honestly could not easily imagine going back to the PS2 version, and considering I spent four 
 years on it, that means a lot.
  
  Gameplay: First off, to the two people in the world who don't know this, RE4 has a totally different 
 gameplay style than previous Resident Evils. Behind-the-shoulder shooting style, and running with 
 the analoge stick. One of the realistic-but-irritating parts of the origonal was Leon had a shaky 
 hand. The guns laser sight would shake in odd ways. This is where Wii-edition really shines, you 
 control the aiming with the remote, and honestly, I like this aiming more than the aiming in Metroid 
 Prime 3! The games difficulty is a bit less, unfortunately, but there is always hard mode after 
 you finish the game! The game is filled to the brim with content, regular single player lasts up 
 to fourty hours. And that mode isn't a fourth of the game! There is hard mode, a whole OTHER story 
 mode for Ada (ten to twenty hours) , a mini-mission with Ada that lasts about three hours, Mercenaries 
 mode (which can last up to a hundred hours if you like it enough, and a chance to unlock all cutscenes. 
 Not to mention unlockable costumes, which actually show during cutscenes unlike the PS2 version. 
 Only flaw is the game really isn't all to scary, but hey; a game this great doesn't NEED scary 
 anymore. 10/10
  
  Graphics: Resident Evil 4 origionally proved the Gamecube could have amazing graphics if done right. 
 Hell, RE4 looks better than almost every PS2 game on the market, and a lot of Xbox games. While 
 the graphics weren't completely redone (which may be a good thing) for the Wii version, I can definitely 
 see some little touch-ups here and there, which is always good. Enemies look scary, characters 
 look great, it doesn't get much better. Also, the dogs man, let one get on your face; it looks 
 like a real effing' dog! That really stuck out to me, and I love it. Best Wii may have to offer. 
 10/10
  
  Sound/Music: Music-wise, is great! Intense heartpounding battle music, and many creepy sound effects. 
 Some parts actually made background noises almost feel like music, an effect often seen in Silent 
 Hill. Only problem is the game deserved a good main theme to recognize it be. Voice acting was 
 really good actually, especially for Resident Evil. Leon, Ada, and Luis probably win the best voices; 
 though Salazar was pretty good too. Ashley sounds like a good enough damsel in distress; though 
 her yelling does get a bit grating. 8.5/10
  
  Replayability: Read 'Gameplay'. 10/10
  
  Overall: I am proud to own the same game on two different systems, as RE4: Wii Edition offers a 
 whole new way to take on one of the best gaming experiences of all time. If you have a Wii, buy 
 this game. You won't regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Head_of_games
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 3:51 pm PT
Review:  RE:4 Wii edition is just one of those complete no-brainer purchases. While I can understand some 
 of you out there may have something against the massive amounts of violence, if you aren't among 
 them this game MUST be owned. The graphics, although a generation old, are some of the best on 
 Wii. The gameplay is flawless but for the lack of strafing, and the sound is great. One of the 
 things that really stands out about this game is how long it will last you. Allthough it should 
 only take about twenty hours to beat the story mode, if you intend to unlock everything you will 
 likely be playing for 100+ hours, and then some. The replay value is simply spectacular because 
 of all the diffrent ways you can play and the extra stuff they packed in. Even if you have had 
 one of the last-gen versions, you ought to buy this masterpiece again because it is great fun to 
 play with the IR pointer. This game is virtually flawless, and even though it's a generation old 
 it still holds it's own, and hold's it well. If you don't have this, immeadiatly stand up, head 
 to your local game store and get it. End of story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 12:21 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing the Resident Evil (RE) games since their inception on the original Playstation. 
 There has never been a series of games that has creeped me out and scared me more than the RE games. 
 The main criticism of the series was it's reluctance to evolve with the times in terms of camera 
 and controls. RE4 took all of that nonsense and through it out the window. It really changed the 
 way we play 'survival-horror' games and it has been copied many times in the years since.
  
  With RE4, Capcom decided to ditch the whole zombie storyline and go for something completely 
 different. RE4 is certainly not as scary as the other RE games, but it has TONS of tension filled 
 moments that really make up for it. The over-the-shoulder view let Capcom develop a game that has 
 way more action than previous entries. Yea the story was completely crazy (as usual) and some of 
 the voice acting is bad in a 'cheesy B-movie' kind of way, but that has always been the case. But 
 the game looked amazing and was the most polished of all RE games. 
  
  I won't waste your time going on and on about the actual game itself, as you know it's great or 
 you probably wouldn't be here reading this. I will just go into what this Wii edition brings to 
 the table.
  
  The big difference here is, obviously, the motion controls. To play the game you use the WiiMote 
 and Nunchuck. At first, I didn't really like the new controls and would have preferred a gamepad. 
 But now after beating the game again with the new controls, I think it would be really hard to 
 go back to the gamepad. In other words, if you don't dig the new controls at first they might grow 
 on you over time.
  
  The game received no visual upgrades, but it still looks fantastic. This Wii version does include 
 all of the extras that the PS2 version received (the Separate Ways side-story) , wide-screen support, 
 Ada's missions, mercenary mode, etc. A big plus with the game is the fact that once you beat the 
 main story, you have a lot more game to explore if you so choose to.
  
  This is how you do a 'Wii-make' as they are now called. RE4 is a must-own game to begin with, and 
 this Wii version is really the best out there. To top it off, you can get this, brand new, for 
 around $20. I really can't recommend this more and any Wii owner who is a fan of the RE franchise 
 or just survival horror games in general, you must own this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tedhlfc4life
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 9:16 am PT
Review:  In resident evil 4 you are rejoined with leon. s kennedy six years after resident evil 2 where it 
 was his first day as a cop.
  
  This time leon is sent to a spanish island where the president daughter ashley has been kipnapped. While 
 trying to do this leon has to fight a fictional group of zombies called the los ganados lead by 
 a guy called saddler.
  
  To make things worst leon gets injected with the virus aswell as ashley so now leon has to cure 
 himself and escape off the island.
  
  I didint know what to say in the difficulty thing since it depends what dificulty u pick!. Anyway 
 what i believe to be the best things about this game is the wii's motion sensor controls and the 
 overhead view and the interactive movies.
  
  What i thinks the best bits of the story are when you are trapped in the house with luis and the 
 knife fight with krauser. The worst part of the game is the castle because it is dragged by a bit 
 much.
  
  This game leaves you with plenty of stuff to after story like mercenaries and seperare ways where 
 you play as ada wong or if you want you can do story mode again on a higher difficulty.
  
  Anyway this is probably the best game the wii has to offer.9.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferraro007
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2009 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Point... FIRE! This port of the 2005 Resident Evil 4 is amazing. If you think playing it once on 
 cube or PS2 is it, you were very wrong. The Wii features:
  
  - True Widescreen 16:9
  - Controls that make shooting so much more easier 
  - Extras from PS2 version
  - The best Resident 
 Evil experience yet
  
  Sure, the visuals have improved only slightly, but it's better. The previous consoles were pushed 
 to the point of exploding, the Wii serves more, but could of served even more. Aside from that 
 if this is your first time, your in for an adventure! A 20-hour non-stop action rollar-coaster 
 filled with zombies that get stronger is amazing. 
  Playing the game over and over was like eating fudge, you want more, and more, and more. The blood 
 and gore is great, and with the Wii controls you can shoot much easier to get the desired reaction.
 
  Going through the village for the first time is scary, facing an extremely powerful creature called 
 "IT" while trying to escape from a falling death is scary. Running out of bullets and facing El 
 Giante is scary. This has so many great moments in it you would think this was a blockbuster movie.
 
  Being Ada and going through her role in the game is just more on the plate, and with a never-ending 
 supply of different weapons that always could use upgrading, makes facing a party of zombies, interesting. 
 
  Leon is the best hero out their, and while trying to keep the president's daughter Ashley safe 
 you will feel like a hero of horror. If all horror games were as put together as this one is, you 
 would be pushed to nut them all.
  
  Graphics: Spectacular 2 years ago, still good today. True widescreen makes this excellent.
  
 
  Sound : Great zombie lines, often repeated, but Leon's comebacks and other characters Voices make 
 this great. Spooky sound tracks are put into place right when the action starts!
  
  Gameplay: Great controls and a long epic story, puts all the game's effort right in this amazing 
 Resident Evil experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daniel72296
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2009 1:58 pm PT
Review:  First off, this game is just flat-out amazing. The control schemes are so easy, there are numerous 
 game modes you can play, different guns to buy, many characters to unlock, costumes to unlock, 
 you name it. It makes it even more fun on the Wii Remote, having to keep your arm steady and aim 
 correctly, it makes the game have so much to keep you hooked on it. It's also fun with the knife, 
 how you have to swing the Wii Remote constantly to stab somebody! And it's also pretty realistic 
 when it comes to battle and gameplay. For example, if someone with a chainsaw comes up to you and 
 swings it at you, you're head flies off and you fall on the ground, dead, with blood all over the 
 ground. I mean that it's just realistic how it kills ou in one hit with chainsaws, hahaha. But 
 the health system is realistic, how some items will hurt you differently and some will hardly hurt 
 you at all.
  
  There's not much to say but that this game is an instant masterpiece and an amazing game for the 
 Wii. You will be addicted to it for weeks. I've had it for a few months and I still play it every 
 now and then. Don't even think about buying this game, because you should have bought it by the 
 time you're done thinking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMLSLAT
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 8:22 pm PT
Review:  The Good: The graphics are from the Gamecube and the content is from the PS2, making it the best 
 of both worlds; the graphics haven't really aged; the music is haunting, and adds to the intensity 
 of the gameplay; you have plenty of controller options; the story is creepy and incredibly handled; 
 surprisingly good voice acting; I personally got the crap scared out of me; there are multiple 
 difficulties; you can roll over your old weapons; the movie browser is a nice touch; the Wii remote 
 controls are way better than the old ones; quite a bit of replayability.
  
  The Bad: The dialogue seriously sucks; difficulty is pretty spastic; you can't move and shoot, 
 even if that adds to the tension.
  
  Resident Evil finally changed its ways from controlling the characters like tanks, keeping the 
 camera fixed in place, and a bizarre, dated control scheme with Resident Evil 4 in 2005. The title 
 was first released on Gamecube, with visuals that were spectacular coming from the system, a unique 
 story, and plenty of gore.
  
  The PS2 version came soon after, with weaker graphics, but a new mode called Separate Ways, allowing 
 players to go through a main adventure as Ada Wong.
  
  The PC version... is an epic failure.
  
  So the Wii version was questionable. Was it just a 
 cash-in?
  
  Fortunately no. This is the definitive version of one of the most spectacular titles ever created, 
 and it's a steal at $30.
  
  The story of Leon S. Kennedy coming to save the President's daughter in Spain allows for a change 
 of pace from the regular franchise. You'll be fighting somewhat human enemies, not slow, mindless 
 zombies. This adds to the intensity of the game, as does the fact you can't move and shoot simultaneously 
 (although it's a shame that you can't) . However, the game does connect to the rest of the franchise, 
 with Leon, Ada, Wesker and Krauser from previous titles making appearances.
  
  It's presumable that this one will tie into the rest of the franchise a bit better in future, but 
 for now we can just enjoy the bizarre and truly scary twists the game throws at us. I'd tell you 
 what you'll be fighting, the story behind the terrifying Plaga Virus and just what Ada and Wesker 
 are searching for, but spoiling this game would be regrettable for you and me both.
  
  The graphics were absolutely amazing on Gamecube, and still hold up pretty well. It's good to see 
 that even though Separate Ways was previously only using PS2 graphics, the engine from the Gamecube 
 version was used for this rendition.
  
  The music is haunting and the voice acting is excellent. It's humorous seeing that Resident Evil 
 4's script is B-grade horror movie type, not as serious as you'd expect, but it doesn't fit the 
 bill here. While that may be a decent fit for the previous Resident Evil titles, here the game 
 is so intense and fast-paced that the script takes you out of the story sometimes. The voice acting 
 makes up for this every once in awhile, but it's hard to ignore some of the lamest lines ever put 
 into a video game.
  
  The control scheme is something people worried about. You can use the Gamecube controller or a 
 Classic Controller if you actually dislike the Wii Remote controls, so either way, you can't complain. 
 However, I found the Wii Remote controls far superior to the old scheme. Aiming is much faster, 
 easier, and feels better, it's much simpler to use the knife, reloading is just as efficient, and 
 the menus are easy to reach and navigate. That might take the difficulty down a notch, but if you 
 want the horrifying, insanely hard game from PS2 and Gamecube, you can still use the Gamecube controller.
 
  
  Also, if you love the story in a game when it's good, like me, then you'll be glad the Movie Browser 
 allows you to go over previous cutscenes.
  
  People say that this game doesn't scare them at all. The first time you play through as Leon, though, 
 scares me quite a bit. I was truly terrified of the new monstrosities coming at me. Admittedly, 
 though, Assignment Ada and Separate Ways (also with Ada) and repeated play throughs (you can bring 
 all your good weapons back with you to the start of the game as Leon and dominate the baddies once 
 you get through once) aren't nearly as terrifying. Mercenaries, a mini-game where you kill as much 
 as possible within a time-limit, is both challenging and terrifying, since you'll be near death 
 at all times.
  
  All and all, the controls are better, the graphics and content are the best they've ever been, 
 and this version of RE4 denies nearly every flaw that could've arisen. This is a must play, and 
 it's the best version you could ask for.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattc7691
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2009 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Here is the review that I gave to RE4 for the Cube Version: (This is a very great game. It is the 
 best game to ever come out on the GameCube, in my oninion. It is just great how in how it was done 
 and presented. The only thing that got on my nerves was Ashley, the president's daughter, who was 
 always yelling "LEON HELPPPPP!!!!!," and she is always in the need of saving. The game also has 
 some familiar faces and some cool new characters, like Krauser. The knife fight was absolutely 
 awsome, and one of my favorite video game moments ever. It also comes with the awsome Mercenaries 
 Mini-Game, which lets you play as either Leon, Ada, Hunk, Krauser, or even Wesker, plus there is 
 also the Ada mini-game, Assignment Ada, which was cool, and I love the Tommy Gun you get for betting 
 Assignment Ada, and the Handcannon rocks too, so it is just a game that is fun playing through, 
 and has a lasting appeal.) All around, the Wii version is great to check out if you have a Wii, 
 and a must play if you haven't played it yet.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lateralus_1
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2009 11:41 am PT
Review:  The good points:
  
  - Well paced in terms of action sequences, puzzles, boss fights etc.
  - Enemy AI is generally good (see bad points below) with enemies trying to dodge your shots, and 
 surround you when in a group.
  - The game benefits from the use of third-person 'begind shoulder' view.
  - Graphics are great, 
 even if the game is a two year old port.
  - Atmospheric soundtrack increases tension. 
  - Control system; makes effective use of the wii remote and doesn't feel gimmicky.
  
  The bad 
 points:
  
  - Occasional glitches in enemy AI - sometimes enemies will not attempt to attack you, and remain 
 'stuck' within the environment. On the other hand, enemies will run through their own wire explosive 
 traps to attack you, killing themselves instantly. 
  
  -Woefully bad dialogue at times. This may be a result of translation issues, but still: the dialogue 
 is full of cliches, humour is misplaced at times and undermines the overall tension of the story. 
 Plus the Merchant's cockney accent is dubious.
  
  Overall:
  
  Resident Evil 4 is a great, tense, and ultimately fun game despite the bad points mentioned. For 
 me it is one of the best in the series so far.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: toth_szabolcs
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2009 12:25 am PT
Review:  So lets talk about the Resident Evil 4 for the wii. First thing I had observed about Resident Evil 
 4 is the great graphic, and how easy I can aim at the enemy. This is my second wii game, and I 
 don`t regret that I had buy`d this game (in my country its about 50$) . This the first time I had 
 playd Resident Evil, and my first oppinion is that this is a fine 3rd person shooter game, and 
 I`m sure that no one who is a Wii owner wont regret that they had buyd this game. the only bad 
 thing about the game is that theres not enought ammo. This is a very good game, but hard to, but 
 if it would be an easy game, that probably it would be borring to, no? Thanx for reading my oppinion 
 and if U want, U can leave a comment , or joing my forum, U can write Ur opinion about the best 
 Wii games what are on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatalityFreak
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2009 8:27 am PT
Review:  When I played Resident Evil 4 for the Nintendo Gamecube it blew my mind. Resident Evil had a complete 
 makeover. But when it came out for the Nintendo Wii I knew I needed to bye it. The new control 
 sceme was a complete success. Pick up the Wii remote and aim it at the screen and Leon reacts and 
 he holds the gun up. It is like you are in the game. You finally know what it feels like to be 
 in the ultimate survival horror. The graphics are breathtaking and satisfying. The enemies and 
 bosses are very intimidating. I would have never guessed that crazy spanish people would be chasing 
 you in Resident Evil. Somehow it works so well. This is one of the best Resident Evil games ever. 
 The Nintendo Wii just makes this game even better. Whether your waving the Wii remote to run from 
 a boulder or using the Wii classic controller, this is a great game. If you are a die-hard Resident 
 Evil fan, you should buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rc93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 6:35 pm PT
Review:  As a RE series fan I knew the behind-the-back camera would be revolutionary. To be honest, everything 
 was good about this game. The graphics were so realistic. I like the selection of weapons but i 
 must say I think there should have been more. I like how in the cutscenes they had the button scheme. 
 I really enjoyed that. People usually skip the cutscenes but this made it less boring. The AI was 
 pretty smart. The story line was fantastic. And i like how you get all the bonus missions after 
 you beat the game once. Though it had its many pros it had 1 peticular con with me. The controls 
 made me mad because when the ganados threw axes at you, you couldnt move fast enough and would 
 get hit. Other than that It was a great game and it is a must buy. 
  
  P. S. I used the Classic Controller, i never use the Wiimote 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightning-Angel
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2009 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition is Truly Fantastic Even Though the Game was Released a long time ago, 
 It still Remains an Experience that you Should not miss, Even if you have already Experienced the 
 Awesomeness of this Game on Another Console, You still Should Try it, Especially for those of you 
 who have not Experienced the Magic of this Amazing game, Not many Improvements have been made only 
 Minor but Helpful Changes have been made, Take the Crosshair for Example the Crosshair makes the 
 game Easier but still a Joy, you may Have Tried it before on the Game cube or the PS2 or the PC 
 but still you will want to live inside the Survival Action Again, Even though the game has been 
 Changed Dramatically From Horror to Action, It still Remains a fun and Addicting game, For any 
 of you fans of Resident Evil out there, I'm Sure you have Tried it Before, but I'm Also Sure that 
 you miss it and that you will want to try this Great game Once Again, And Again want to Control 
 Leon through this Amazing Nightmare that has Fallen upon him, My say is that if you have or have 
 not Experienced the game, I say try it Again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11CrimsonRubies
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2009 2:59 pm PT
Review:  First off, I am a fairly pessimistic person, so I apologize if I rant about the negatives with 
 this game (which are fairly few) . So, without further ado, my RE 4 review!
  
  Okay, the positives. Wow, there's a lot. Okay, the controls. For the Wii, of course. They're AMAZING. 
 Fit the game perfectly. They get some time to get used to, but after you get the hang of it, they 
 become almost second nature (note, the attache case controls are not included in this...) . The 
 fact that you can't move while shooting just makes it more intense. And, for the people complaining 
 about it, how many people do you know that could shoot someone's head while running? Not many, 
 right? 
  Then the characters. Yes, Ashley's a little annoying, but she's supposed to be, she's the president's 
 daughter for crying out loud! Luis is annoying to, but he's supposed to be, just like Ashley. Ada's 
 voice REALLY got on my nerves, but she's a pretty good character too. Her dress kinda bugged me 
 though. Now, Leon. I've played the RE 5 demo, watched countless gameplay movies and cutscenes from 
 the RE series, and I can say without a doubt that RE 4's Leon S. Kennedy is my favorite character. 
 He always keeps his eyes on the mission, and places the people around him above himself. I find 
 it much more fun to play a morally sound character than one straight from the gutter  
 
  The creature design is quite good, though none of them were above faintly creepy, and not near 
 terrifying. Definitely not for a young audience though.
  The setting is very good, with a good amount of dust and grime covering everything, rotting food 
 about, and starving animals, it really emphasizes the feeling that whatever overtook the villagers 
 left them frozen in time, not caring about basic necessities or chores.
  
  The negatives. Alright, are you ready for the possible rant fest? Okay, you can't move while holding 
 your knife. I know that sounds silly after I defended the fact that you are basically sessile while 
 aiming your gun, but if you think about it, a trained government agent should be able to move and 
 slash his knife at the same time. And since your knife doesn't reach very far, you will only use 
 it to break open crates and in the shoot-kick-knife strategy. 
  Also, the controls in the attache case menu are fairly confusing, and I still constantly mess up 
 and use an herb when I meant to mix it.
  The merchant doesn't sell ammo! This kills me! you can frickin' SEE it when he rips open his COAT 
 to SELL STUFF! Sigh, I'm better know. But I hope this is fixed if he ever returns. Though I doubt 
 he will, since he was left to blow up. Oops, did I just give a mild spoiler? Silly me!
  Okay, now this might seem kinda nit-picky of me, but this bothered me. So, I'm studying Spanish, 
 and this game is set in Spain, right? So they should all speak the original dialect of Spanish, 
 right? But they don't! Let me explain. Just how someone can speak English but still have a distinctive 
 Australian or British accent, so someone can speak Spanish and have a different accent. Now, Mexicans 
 speak a different dialect than Spaniards. Just like Brits speak differently than we Americans do. 
 The Mexican dialect is very guttural, and they even pronounce some words different. So, you'll 
 hear a couple of Ganados speaking, and then, suddenly, one will speak with a Mexican accent! And 
 they're supposed to be in a remote village in Spain! Unless Saddler kidnapped some illegal immigrants 
 and hauled them over there. It's like going to an American only school and hearing an Irish person 
 speaking. It's that glaringly obvious. So, I hope you can see why that bothers me.
  
  Overall, GET THIS GAME! it's the best game I think I've ever played, and I cannot wait 'till the 
 release of the fifth! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cburtenshaw
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 12:40 am PT
Review:  The game itself isn't groundbreaking. But with the addition of the Wii controller as a point and 
 shoot gun, it makes it really worth playing on the Wii. It's a pretty linear game. One or two path 
 choices along the way, but you end up in the same place eventually anyway. One boss in particular 
 can be a little hard, especially if you've run low on ammo. There's nothing new in the Resident 
 Evil franchise per say, which isn't a bad thing. 
  
  In my opinion the Resident Evil games have been the best of this genre. 
  
  This is a great 
 game. If you've loved any of the games before you will love this just as much; if not more with 
 the added fun of the Wii remote as a gun. It has a good storyline, scary sound effects and immersive 
 ambiance (especially with the lights out) and lots of stabbing, shooting and blowing up Zombies 
 and monsters. Play it on the hardest level and it's pretty hectic.
  
  Only thing that could have improved it would be 2 player co-op. That would have made it outstanding. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eric813
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 Wii Edition gives you everything you'd think it promises. First of all the controls 
 in this game handle beautifully. The wii was build for shooters and this game just proves that 
 fact even more. The visuals are pretty good and we know can play the game in 16:9. This game also 
 keeps you on the edge of your seat. The story in this game is amazing and is deffentially a real 
 thriller. I think this version of the game surpasses the original gamecube and later ps2 release. 
 You also get the bonus missions in the Wii version of the game like you did in the ps2 version. 
 I would recommend this tiltle to any horror fan looking for more mature games on their Wii. Currently 
 I dont beleive there is a better Horror rgame for the Wii and by now you can probally pick this 
 title for around $30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirRailton
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 = Awsome
  
  Resident Evil 4 is problably one of the best games I have ever played. Especially the Wii version 
 of the game. It's basically a shoot 'em up gore fest with an awesome story.
  
  The story = You are Leon, a secret agent that is on a mission from the president to save his daughter 
 from some mysterious cult who plan to use her to spread their evil across the globe. Leon was from 
 Resident Evil 2 I believe, I am not sure. Along the way, you discover mysterious zombie-like villagers 
 of a Spanish civilization who will try to stop you from rescueing the poor damsel in distress. 
 On you journey, you will find some original characters from the classic games who will either fight 
 you, or help you. Other than that, I will not say.
  
  The Gameplay= You will first notice that you are in a strange third-person view, similiar to that 
 of Dead Space, Leon is not in the middle of the screen, but off to the left. If you are not familiar 
 with this perspective, it will get some time to get used to. At first when you play, EXPECT TO 
 DIE A LOT!!! The game is very direct, no tutorial, or nothing. Although one enemie will be your 
 target practice, and thats it.
  There are only two levels of difficulty, Normal and Proffesional. 
  
  After you beat the game, 
 three more game modes are unlocked.
  One of which you play from the perspective of Ada, an in game character, to give you a parallel 
 story line of the same game. Another, Mercenaries, is a survival mode were you get to choose your 
 lvel and character and survive an onslaught of zombies. Another, Assignment Ada, you play Ada in 
 a whole different story where you collect 5 plagas samples without dieing.
  
  Overall=
  Gameplay= 9/10 (It is hard to get used to, but after that, fun)
  Graphics= 10/10 (For Wii, awesome)
 
  Story= 10/10 
  Bargain= 10/10 (I got this game for 20$ at Best Buy)
  Control= 9/10
  
  48/50 or 96/100.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: elpapirri_retur
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2009 9:20 am PT
Review:  Ive played this game on Playstation 2, and it is a great game, then i had the oportunity to buy 
 it on the Wii, thinking that it will be boring cause ive finished on PS2, but i was wrong, its 
 a completely new experience, you get involved in the game, more thant the PS2. Cause aiming with 
 your wiimote, and pull the trigger to kill some mofos it feels great cause you remember all the 
 suffering youve been through. Ive played with my girl, and she loves to watch this game, imagine, 
 a dark night, raining outside, playing this game with 5.1 surround system, it makes you wet your 
 pants. And ive played the Resident Evil Umbrella Chronicles, i dont know why people dont like 
 rail-on games. Its thrillers you up. Im just waiting for the people of Capcom please take the 
 Resident Evil 5 on Wii, cmon they only interest on business, well i think that will be the bet 
 business ever, I mean, if Resident Evil 4 it sold more than 1,000,000 copies, imagine Resident 
 Evil 5, with the same gameplay than RE4. Im a ver fan of Resident Evil saga. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiiownzzz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 11:14 am PT
Review:  During the gamecube era, I bought this game. It was amazing! I enjoyed every second of my life 
 when playing this game. Few years past and now it came to the holy Wii. I was ecstatic, I could 
 not believe what I was seeing. I had to buy this game. Back to the review, the simply touch of 
 Wii controls and the pointer made this game unbelievable. Using the pointer to shoot and different 
 movements to do certain things was a very nice touch. There is absolutely nothing wrong with this 
 game at all. I beat this game at least 25 times. I would beat it again too. Some of you may be 
 wondering why I gave it a 9.5 if it's such a great game. I gave it a 9.5 because it was too short 
 for me. RE4 is so fun that I didn't want to stop playing. Now... let's see if Capcom has a little 
 more thought into RE5 for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JERMINITIS
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2009 4:11 pm PT
Review:  To sum it all up in one sentence, this is a great game for an innovative console. 
  
  Before this game, I hadn't experienced too much of the RE series. But now, I'm a lifer for any 
 RE game that comes to Nintendo. 
  
  Even if this game is a port from another console, this game provided guidance for a lot of the 
 Wii's future shooters. The idea that you can actually aim a gun's crosshairs by moving the Wii 
 Remote is fantastic. It sure beats moving an analog stick with your thumb to aim. And, its this 
 specific Wii Remote to aiming relationship that makes this game fantastic. All of the game's functions 
 that are tied to the Wii Remote's movement are oustanding. I really liked the ability to reload 
 quickly using the remote. My only gripe for the game's controls, or lack there of, is the lacking 
 ability to strafe. It would have cemented this game as my favorite if the strafe ability were present.
 
  
  As for the gameplay, I loved the game's layout. Each stage was a bit different, and each stage 
 had its own chilling layout. Some parts of the gameplay will raise hairs on the back of your neck 
 more than other parts. And, the cut scenes aren't too numerous to bore any player. As for the foes 
 in the game, you'll quickly learn that some are easy, and that some are PCP injected and steroid 
 fed villains straight from hell (example, the freaks with the potato sack masks and chainsaws) . 
 But, worry not, you'll have varying weapons to show your dislike for them. Throughout the game, 
 you'll have to decide which weapons to get, and which weapons to pass on at that specific time. 
 Because, to add a degree of difficulty, the game only allows you to carry a specific number of 
 items in your case. I mean, you wouldn't have as much fun if you had infinite ammo, guns, and explosives, 
 right? I'm sure some people would, but not all.
  
  In conclusion, this game is a steal for any Wii owner. Obviously, this game isn't for the kiddies, 
 but any mature fan of 'shooters' will definitely learn to love this game. At the time when I bought 
 this game, I paid $30, and I thought it was a heck of a deal. Now that its $20, you'd be a fool 
 not to pick it up.
  
  So, do what most of us have already done. Buy the game, release some anger and aggression on 'deadish' 
 villagers, and simply put, just enjoy.
  
  Happy hunting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Issac0118
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2009 8:15 am PT
Review:  This was the most amazing game for the gamecube and one of the best games on the PS2, but now its 
 on the Wii with a new control setup. The controls are obviously the best part of the game, with 
 its spot on shooting mechanics and its motion sensitive dodge sequences. The game gets to be too 
 easy as it continues thanks to the controls. once you master the shooting you will only die on 
 the bosses and rarely on the dodge sequences. the dodge sequences in the previous versions were 
 some of the hardest parts in the game. thanks to the new control scheme they have become brainless 
 sequences of you shaking the wiimote while hammering on the A and B buttons. the wii version also 
 includes all of the content that was on the PS2 version as well as the gamecube version. one thing 
 that is going to turn off the hardcore RE4 fans is that the PRL kills every enemy on screen with 
 one shot. when it was on the PS2 you had to have alot of skill in order to get through the game 
 with only the PRL because you had to aim it, now its the cheapest gun in gaming. all the problems 
 aside, you dont need this game if you own any of the other copies but if you dont then you need 
 to buy this game, it is still one of the best action games out there even if its been around now 
 for 4 years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CazmoV
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2009 11:30 am PT
Review:  When I heard about a zombie horror/action/adventure game being released on a console that was had 
 gained it's fan base mainly through casual games, I really wasn't sure what I'd think of it. After 
 excessive brilliant reviews, I finally bought the game. It turns out I never should have thought 
 twice.
  I must say first that I have never played the original version of this game, only this Wii re-release. 
 It's a pretty long game, filled with more zombies you can shake a shotgun at, and some very creepy 
 creatures on the way. You play as Leon, and you are accompanied by Ashley, a young women who seems 
 to rely on your help. Throughout your adventure, you will be fighting a lot of zombies, as well 
 as crazy boss levels and creepy creatures and monsters. The atmosphere of the game is pretty scary, 
 with graveyards and dead trees at every turn. 
  To start with, the gameplay is spot on. Although you cannot run whilst firing your gun, firing 
 is pretty simple and practically has no learning curve. You aim with the wii remote, and move around 
 with the nunchuck. Stab by shaking the remote, and also perform various instructions by doing so. 
 You have access to several different weapons including the shotgun, pistol, bazooka, rifle and 
 more. Ammunition is pretty limited, but this just adds to the gameplay as you are afraid to die 
 and savor your bullets wisely. I don't have many problems with the gameplay, other than the lack 
 of scares. For a zombie horror game, there are very few moments were you actually jump or get shocked. 
 Sure, it can be relatively tense at times, however there are never any truly scary happenings. 
 
  The music is pretty good, quiet, spooky and tense. Sound effects are awesome, however Ashley's 
 very few phrases ("Leon!", "Help me Leon" etc.) can get on your nerves very quickly. I even ended 
 up shooting her once as I got so annoyed with her. T
  The storyline is absolutely awesome, and your enemies are pretty cool also. The overall game is 
 great, with plenty of unlockables, extras and replay value. You'd be a fool to miss out on the 
 excellent hardcore wii game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyzerx12
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2009 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 was the best game of the series until Resident Evil 5 came out. In this game you 
 will play as Leon an ex-cop (since the Raccoon city incident) who is working for the president. 
 You must find Ashley, the presidents daughter. Through the game there will be various weapons and 
 abilities for use. Even though beating it once is kind of hard, you can beat it again but this 
 time, with whatever you had when you ended the game. Or you may also want to try the harder pro 
 difficulty. Beating the game on certain difficulties allows you to play other game modes, such 
 as mercenaries. Also the game allows you to take the role of Ada Wong in the side story, Assinment 
 Ada. The bosses are one of the things to make the game better in both graphics and gameplay. The 
 bosses are hideous and through the design very believable. They are quite hard to beat, like most 
 bosses should be. Over all the game has really no mistakes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrpygmy1
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2009 3:45 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 is truly a spectacular achievement. In fact, it is quite hard to describe how fantastic 
 it is. From the first moment you set your eyes on your first enemy, you know this will be a spectacular 
 adventure you will never forget. 
  
  Resident Evil 4 uses a brand new engine and system that challenges the previous game's gameplay. 
 In fact, it practically gloats its new system in the previous Resident Evil/Dino Crisis series 
 formula's face. But, it delivered. Perfectly. With the complete new over the shoulder view, it 
 is a feat to be commended for. After all, who in their sane mind would dare challenge the previous 
 Resident Evil games?
  
  Another change for the series is the AI. This time 'round the enemies are infected with the 'Las 
 Plagas', a parasitic virus different to the previous T/G viruses implemented in previous games. 
 Instead of mindless zombies who just aimlessly wander the place towards the smell of blood, it 
 is regular human beings who have lost all sense of sanity and co-ordination. These "Ganado" are 
 being controlled by Osmund Saddler, the main boss. While it may not seem as zombie-ish as the previous 
 games, the new AI provide a challenge to fight because they actually have a sense of control in 
 combat. However, zombies are zombies, aren't they?
  
  For being released half way through 2007, and also considering the original version was released 
 earlier than that, the graphics for the game are top notch. Occasional lighting buffets and model 
 glitches that occur, the graphics truly stand for a new era of the Resident Evil series.
  
  But that's not to say this game is an outsider to its predecessors. Absolutely not. In fact this 
 game holds as much Resident Evil as any other game will. Because if you take out the new system 
 of aiming, you will actually realise it is the most Resident Evil-ish game to be released yet!
 
  
  With added Wii capabilities, the game's playability stand much higher than ever before. With the 
 intuitive new aiming system using the Wii sensors, players may be able to aim more freely than 
 the PS2 or GC editions. The Wii version also includes the exclusive content which is found in the 
 PS2 version, adding much more replay value to the game.
  
  With this said, Resident Evil 4 should stand out as an absolutely fantastic game of the genre, 
 and is still an definite must buy today.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sportsmen2008
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2009 11:34 pm PT
Review:  I never reviewed this game when I first got it. I realized it was time to fix this horrible mistake 
 that I had made. Sure thousands of people have said what an amazing game this is, and I doubt anyone 
 will read this review, but the game is so good it deserves this review. I have played some of the 
 best games ever on the Atari, Nintendo, Sega Genesis, and the PC. From 1985-2000 I was a huge gamer, 
 but from 2000-2007 I really had not played any games. Enter 2007 and I just got a Wii after playing 
 wii sports at a friends house. One of the first game that I got was Re4, and I had NEVER played 
 a Resident Evil game before. 
  
  The graphics look beautiful, I had not seen such an amazing graphics in a long time. well ok ever, 
 since it had been a long time since I had played a game. I was really impressed as I played deeper 
 and deeper into the game. The characters, the monsters, the scenery, with such a vast array everything 
 looked so fantastic. Monsters looked "real" with great detail yet where very scary, and really 
 made the game even better. The houses, mountains, lakes etc all looked wonderful and again the 
 detail was revolutionary to me. I am one of the few people who played so many great games with 
 horrible graphics but loved the games because the game play was so fantastic. This was the first 
 game where I could honestly say they made this game even better!
  
  The music is also a 10. This game has just the right music to set any mood. They way it alerts 
 you when danger is near, even when you cannot see it is perfect. It also makes the game feel perfect. 
 You are just drawn into the game even further with the fantastic ballad. 
  
  The game play is really fantastic and I would put this game heads up with any game ever! The story 
 is very well made and it draws you in and makes you want to play and figure out more of the story. 
 Its great to put every piece of this puzzle together and figure out the entire story. Each level 
 has a unique feel, and makes perfect sense with the story. Each boss, is special and challenges 
 you in a different way. The ending is satisfying, but makes you want to play the game again! However 
 just when you get this feeling and your sad it ended, whats this mini games, and mini adventures! 
 ts just too perfect. 
  
  The controls are really wonderful, and work better then most games on the wii. You are able to 
 point and shoot, and run to perfection. The ability to change weapons, add health, check the map, 
 and use your treasures is just perfect. 
  
  This is really a game you must own if you have a Wii. Every person who I have recommended this 
 game too has loved it. Even people who do not like shooters/RPG's cannot get enough of this game. 
 This is by far my favorite game on the Wii, and when I am frustrated by another game this is the 
 game I turn too. I have beat it many times on every level. I have beaten all of the mini games 
 also. I can still pop this in, and lose 10 hours playing this game, its just that good. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheinei
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 10:23 am PT
Review:  I havent played a RE game in a long time. So I decided to pick up RE4. I DO NOT REGRET UYING THIS 
 GAME. In the biginning I got bored with the game, almost to the point when i was going to trade 
 it in. I AM SO GLAD I DIDNT. The beginnign is slow but its worth the wait. The story gets BETTER 
 and BETTER. There were some times I fell out of my seat from jumping in fear. One thing that surprised 
 me about the story is that there arent any zombies. They are possesed Spainards. lol But they still 
 have that zombie nature. They dont die unless you shott the head. 
  Ive only played about 14 hours worth of the game so far, and im not even halfway done!! Its so 
 greatfull to have a nice long game to last me. ( since I dont have any money at the moment lol) 
 
  There are freaky moments and there are some WTF WAS THAT moments. 
  Best game in my stack. GET IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatalmagic46
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2009 6:54 pm PT
Review:  ahh resident evil. one of my favorite series. i loved the game play of the original games. so when 
 i heard resident evil 4 was coming out i was phyched. i saw a buddy of mine play it and i was severly 
 dissapointed by the lack of zombies. when i first got a ps2 i decided to give the game a chance 
 and i made a good decision it was one of the best games i played. but enough about my life story. 
 few years later they relweased re4 wii edition. i recently got a nintendo wii so i bought it and 
 this version is even better. from what i understand its the gamecube version with the ps2 extras. 
 hell it can even be played with a gamecube controller. anyway, you play as Leon Scott Kennedy, 
 a former cop and survivor of the raccoon city incident. after the downfall of umbrella Leon serves 
 the government and his first mission is to rescue the president of the united states of america's 
 kidnapped daughter. when Leon arrives at the village were she has been sighted he notices something 
 is wrong. all the villagers are controlled by a parasite called las plagas. a cult group named 
 los illuminados is behind this. Leon is captured and injected with a plagas egg and so was ashley. 
 so throughout the game your finding Ashley who somehow manages to get her self caught countless 
 times. along the way you meet your old friend the supposedly dead Ada Wong. Shes is there to retrieve 
 a sample of las plagas and helps Leon out every now and then. now lets talk about the major improvment. 
 the controls! not only can you use the gc controller but the wii remote and nunchuck combintion 
 works great. you use the nunchuck to move and the wiimote to aim and attack. overall its a great 
 game and i reccomend it to anyone who is looking for a nice action game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UVERproject
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Ok technically there not zombies, there different kind infect known as las plagus or whatever don't 
 really care cause I would have rather fought zombies. These dudes were beast. Anyways a simple 
 port game for the Wii, like most games. We Wii gamers are discriminated. Any ways if you played 
 the one for the game cube or the ps2 pretty much the same cept for the graphics. Same story pretty 
 much the same game with different controls and better controls. Shooting with the Wii is fun and 
 gives a game a more "i'm being attacked" feel. I'm pretty sure they have all those secret weapons 
 and that mercs mode. If you feel a bit of nostalgia you should go out and get it. Probably really 
 cheap. I got it for about 20 bucks on a black friday. So theres really not much to say since I 
 feel it's the same but I never played the one for the gamecube and ps2 since zombies scare me. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brannor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Most people have played an earlier version of this game and enjoyed it. Some couldn't get enough 
 and others were content with one play through. This game was so popular that the game was released 
 three times. The original Gamecube release had great character models, you could see the wrinkles 
 and dirt on their face; however, it was lacking in bonus content. The PlayStation 2 release had 
 an abundant amount of bonus content including Separate Ways, Assignment Ada, and Mercenaries modes. 
 Though the PlayStation 2 version had more content it was severely lacking in the model detail, 
 you could clearly see the polygons that made up their faces not to mention the game suffers from 
 slowdowns when a shotgun shot hits multiple enemies. The Wii version combines the best both prior 
 releases and adds a new aiming system that makes the game feel as if it should have been on the 
 Wii from the start.
  
  The camera view remains the same, but the laser is replaced with a green target reticle that turns 
 red when aimed at an enemy or breakable object. This system makes it much easier to hit targets 
 and it feels natural. Using the Wii-mote to aim and the joy stick to turn. Unfortunately the game 
 play does not support the Wii Zapper or the Nyko Perfect Shot. When grabbed by an enemy you must 
 shake the controller to free yourself from his grasp, in an attempt to simulate an actual struggle. 
 In dodge sequences you must either swing the Wii-mote or press A and B simaltaniously.
  
  The creatures you fight are either very large, very fast, or can take quite a beating. The first 
 time you play through this game you will most definitely jump at one point or an other from the 
 creatures you fight or the waves of varied enemies that require you to move and stratagize rather 
 quickly. Head shots may not be your savior anymore due to the parasites known as the plagas that 
 are much more dangerous. They can be taken out instantly with a flash grenade, but if you do that 
 with every plagas enemy your fight you will quickly run out of them. It's recommended that you 
 use them only when one or more of them are present.
  
  The plot and scenery are unchanged, you are Leon S Kennedy, a special agent under the presidents 
 direct order who is on a mission to rescue the presidents missing daughter, Ashley. As the story 
 develops you will run into some interesting characters and some old ones from Resident Evil 2. 
 Unfortunately it is a babysitting mission when you do find her, which can be quite frustrating. 
 If Ashley dies then its game over of course, luckily the game doesn't have her around when you 
 are fight some of the more difficult enemies.
  
  Resident Evil 4 has a nice mix of action and suspense and even though everything is as it was in 
 the first two version it is still one the best in the series to date and one of the best games 
 I've ever played. This game released on the Wii for $30, an appropriate price for a game that has 
 been released a total of three times and it is well worth the money. The bottom line is if you 
 haven't played this game yet, the Wii version is the one to go with if you have a choice.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: diehard121
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2009 11:38 am PT
Review:  I Found a hidden enemy group of dogs. The way to find them is at the lake. Right when you ch.1-3 
 and start Ch.2-1 go back to the boat that you used to cross the lake. Go to were you first go on 
 the boat and walk up the path and the dogs will jump out. If you are daring to do this Make the 
 head dog follow you back to the lake and get on the boat. Then kill it with two arrows that used 
 earlier. After the dog is dead get off the boat and go bake up the trail to alert the other dogs 
 then go back to the boat again to kill the rest. Also their is a secret merchant in the cave near 
 the blue lights on the lake. Also their is a couple treasures near the merchant. Once you are at 
 the front on the place go to the left and push the box next to you. Then go right to go up the 
 stairs to the roof of the place. Then push away about two or three more boxes till your on top 
 of the entrance. There should be a barrel there break it and you get a treasure. Also in the basket 
 on the right of the place their is another less important treasure their. You could also go behind 
 the desk. On the roof go all the way the left of the place. Look to the right and the option should 
 appear to jump down. When you do you end up behind the merchant desk. Also you can find some rifle 
 ammo their too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denisfcporto
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 9:02 am PT
Review:  Its the best game of all REs the graphics tipe of game story all great, but in my opinion it should 
 have a co-op mode, i think RE 5 has a co-op mode but i steel prefer RE 4 its more creepe, scary 
 and darck, alot of suspense thet parts in the game thet you dont know whats coming on the next 
 corner, and the haed shots (whoO) but when i blow them haed of and comes thet strange theng from 
 the neck i really dont like thet it make our work harder but inthe oder side i like it because 
 if its not hard its not cool, the reason thet i dirnt rated 10 it because dont have co-op, the 
 graphics but wel, and some litle thengs in the game it shod be shanged but steel, its a great 
 game. Thans CAPCOM
  
  Sorry the bad English, im Portugueseeeess 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Private-Ryan101
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  It is a very good game and you can get easily hooked onto it. The graphics are amazing for the 
 wii, as and the gameplay is also awesome. There is 2 or 3 cons though. The Controls suck, A is to 
 shoot, B to aim, use numchuck joystick to control movement and where you look when aiming. Besides 
 that i reccomend it to any fps or shooter game fan. It has a very long action story line and you 
 will be kept quite busy while playing this game. The controls are difficult but you can get used 
 to them very easily. And i have to have 100 words for this review so im just going to put "buy 
 this its 19.99" until i have 100 words. buy this its 19.99 buy this its 19.99 buy this its 19.99 
 buy this its 19.99 buy this its 19.99 buy this its 19.99 buy this its 19.99 buy this its 19.99 
 buy this its 19.99 buy this its 19.99 buy this its 19.99 buy this its 19.99 buy this its 19.99 
 buy this its 19.99 buy this its 19.99 buy this its 19.99 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabz_95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  So Resident Evil 4 Wii Edition... A remake of a 2 year old game...
  
  What's the point? Complete rip-off right?
  
  That might be your initial thoughts, but once 
 you play the game you'll be eating those words...
  
  So what's new with this version?
  
  Well if you only owned the Gamecube version then there's a lot of new things in this version.
 
  
  Of course there are the Wii controls but we'll talk about that a bit later. First of all there 
 are all the extras that the PS2 version had. Not only does it have all the new weapons that the 
 PS2 version had but it also has extra modes such as Assignment Ada, Separate ways and Mercenaries. 
 Assignment Ada and Separate ways are both brand new missions that are played using Ada, so you 
 can know find out what Ada was doing all those times you were playing as Leon. Mercenaries is a 
 mini-game of sort where you can choose up to 4 different characters. This mini-game is pretty fun, 
 especially as there are a lot of high scores people have made online which are pretty tough to 
 beat.
  
  Ok so what about the people that owned the PS2 version? Is there any reason to buy this version?
 
  
  Well apart from the new wii controls not much... But the game is worth it just because of the wii 
 controls. Yes they are that good. The controls in the game are brilliant. When shooting, you hold 
 B to take out your gun and you press A to shoot. The controls here are very tight and extremely 
 responsive and are perfect for making those vital headshots. If you were a big fan of the PS2/GC 
 version, the controls in this version will be a breath of fresh air. Motion controls are also used 
 for slashing people with your knife. Even though this is a simple mechanic as you literally just 
 slash the air with your wiimote, as it is a perfect representation of how you would slash someone 
 in real life, it makes slashing someone a lot more satisfying. Motion controls have also been added 
 into the Quick time events. Usually during cut scenes, when one of these came up you would tap 
 a button. In the wii version you peform a certain motion with the wii remote. Although this isn't 
 particularly big it is rather fun shaking the wii remote to make leon run from a boulder.
  
  Even though there is no extra content for the wii version is it still worth it?
  
  Yes. 
 Yes it is! The controls make such a difference in the game that it is definitely worth it. The 
 reception the game has recieved is proof of this! And even if you think that you won't think the 
 controls will make that much of a difference, trust me, it will. And plus, this is Resident Evil 
 4 we're talking about. It's such a brilliant game that don't you just want an excuse to play through 
 the game again. Don't you want to headshot ganados, take out El Gigante, kill ashley for fun, wet 
 your pants when the Novistadors jump out at you all over again?
  
  Whether you're a die hard Resident Evil fan or you've just owned Resident Evil 4 or even if you 
 only have the slightest interest in this game it's worth getting.
  
  The game was brilliant in 2005 and it's still brilliant now and deserves to be in your wii collection.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: horrorboy
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2009 11:28 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 continues to scare as it makes a system change to the Wii, a console with few good 
 mature titles such as this wonderful game. 
  
  There are hardly any changes from the PS2 version, except for the fact that the graphics have gotten 
 a lot better, and the controls are extremely easy and fun to use. 
  
  This was probably the best game on the PS2 and it is probably the best game on the Wii besides 
 No More Heroes and Brawl, it is definitely a title that shouldn't be missed by anybody who owns 
 a Wii and that wants a fun and intense and scary journey through the horrid wretches of a far out 
 place in Europe. 
  
  I've beaten the PS2 version about 7 times and I've beaten this version twice and it still continues 
 to freak me out and get my adrenaline pumping every single time i play through it. A perfect 10 
 out of 10.
  -horrorboy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toothpick91
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  Ok first of i dont realy think its that scary but its got its moments anyway its amazing. The graphics 
 r the best i have seen on the Wii so far and i have a old crudy tv so wicked. I havent beat it 
 all yet but but so far the story is realy good 2. Good amount of wepons cool 2 so lol thats good. Plenty 
 of enemys realy wierd creapy lookin witch is great :) love the controles with the Wii motion stuff 
 is ok swing the mote back and forth to slash ur knife and things is fun and easy bunch of other 
 stuff 2. If u got a Wii and not this and ur 17 lol GET IT!!! is sweet i give it a all around 10 
 :) Note: get used to geting killed...... ALOT!!! lol GET IT BOI!!!! ITS AMAZINGLY AWESOME TO THE 
 MAX!!! Ok they need to mack this smaller 120 is way to many words to wright lol srry ppl. Candy 
 moutain charlie yea candy moutainnnnnnn ok u guys u do know there is no such thing as candy mountian. 
 Shun the none beliver shuuunnn sssssshhhuuuuuuuunnnna!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mythbuster5000
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2008 2:30 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil was an instant classic and after about 10 years the 4th game was made. The game only 
 made it to the wii in 2006 or 2007. When it was added to the wii not much was changed. The merchant, 
 changeable guns, the zombies (well dur) and great story line are all still in it, even that stupid 
 hunigan idiot's still in the game.
  
  Now the bad parts. There are'nt many bad things i can say here they are...
  1) its unrealistic 
 when you kill the merchant cuz later on when you meet him in different places hes STILL ALIVE!
 
  2) in the middle of boss fights if you run out of ammo your screwed.
  3) ashely is a screaming slut on the game so don't bother rescuing her cuz shes painful. (eventho 
 you have to rescue her at some point)
  4) Dr. Chainsaw Craphead gives you nightmares.
  
  Finally, this is one of the best games i ever brought. It's definitely well worth the money so 
 nice work CAPCOM!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaCookie7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  I've been gaming for awhile. Not since its humble beginnings, but long enough to consider myself 
 a Vet. And during these years, I've watched developers destroy some of my favourite series with 
 spin-offs or sequels that don't stay true to the game itself. But there are exceptions, and one 
 of those exceptions is this masterpiece - Resident Evil 4. Not only does it manage to complete 
 overthrow the old gameplay of the Resident Evil games and still manage to stay true to the series, 
 but it also manages to completely outdo them.
  
  The game has been out for quite some time, so I'm sure most of you have already played it, so I'll 
 keep my review brief. Fans of the previous games will probably be turned off by the new 'over the 
 shoulder' gameplay at first, but given time, I'm sure even the most disgruntled Resident Evil fan 
 will come to appreciate how great Resident Evil 4 is, even if it is fairly departed from it's origins. 
 
  
  The game starts with Leon S. Kennedy, survivor of Raccoon City, being sent to a remote area in 
 Spain to retrieve the Presidents kidnapped daughter, Ashley. Players will gain their first control 
 over Leon as they approach an old house, stationed in seemingly nowhere. Once inside the house, 
 a cutscene is triggered, and you get your first taste of combat as a seemingly normal villager 
 attacks you. After his defeat, the house is quickly surrounded by more villages. This is your first 
 small taste of the many brilliant moments the game throws your way.
  
  The gameplay in the Wii version is unsurprisingly different from that of the PS2 version. You'll 
 find yourself using your Wiimote to point and click at the screen as opposed to simply aiming and 
 hitting X. This makes things much easier, but also a lot more fun.
  
  As you proceed through the game, you will encounter a number of enemies, bosses and characters 
 - including a friendly merchant who will allow you to purchase and upgrade weaponry. This weaponry 
 carries over between saves and can become quite devastating down the line.
  
  The bosses in the game are rather unique, most of which will mix little mini-games in with the 
 combat. Unlike the PS2 version which involves clicking certain combinations of buttons or tapping 
 them repeatedly, the Wii version makes uses of the Wii's motion sensing capabilities, forcing you 
 to waggle and shake your Wiimote quite constantly. These bosses are quite impressive and mixed 
 with the new RE4 engine, are easily the most fun I've encountered in the RE series.
  
  The game has a number of bonus games, such as Mercanaries and Project Ada, which has you playing 
 the game from Ada Wong's perspective. These will add a bit of extra value to the game, but most 
 of the games replayability will simply come from replaying through the main story mode on harder 
 difficulties or with stronger weapons, trying to fully deck out and max your characters stats.
 
  
  Finally, the graphics in the Wii version are vastly superior to that of the PS2 version. With the 
 better graphics of the Gamecube version, bonus mini-games of the PS2 version and the new gameplay 
 mechanics made possible with the Wii version, this is by far the greatest version of Resident Evil 
 4 - worth a look to anyone.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 9.5
  Sound: 9.5
  Replay Value: 9.7
  Overall: 9.5/10
  
  Vastly superior to the PS2 version, I recommend this 
 game to any Wii owner.
  
  Note: Thanks to kingkilla3 for pointing out two spelling errors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rami_keyblade
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  its an amazing game, my only complaint are that controls could have been better, the controls aren't 
 bad-not by a long stretch but the quality of the game deserves more. overall i give this game 9.5, 
 the graphics are amazing they look so good that they can go head to head with 360 and ps3 games!!!
 
  
  nonetheless its one of the greatest games I've played on the wii!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  now i have to try umbrella what else can I write oh
  the target sometimes isnt exactly in place 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  its an amazing game, my only complaint are that controls could have been better, the controls aren't 
 bad-not by a long stretch but the quality of the game deserves more. overall i give this game 9.5, 
 the graphics are amazing they look so good that they can go head to head with 360 and ps3 games!!!
 
  
  nonetheless its one of the greatest games I've played on the wii!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  now i have to try umbrella what else can I write oh
  the target sometimes isnt exactly in place 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pat12kenny
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  Resident evil 4 brings us back with leon s kennedy six years after resident evil 2 to a spanish 
 island. Where a fictunal cult and their leader sadler early on in the game you are faced with hoardes 
 gannados and a guy with a bag on his head with a chainsaw. So what can i say about this that already 
 hasent been siad about this game. The bosses are great the story is great the only bad thing i can 
 say about this game is that it ended. On the hardest difficulty this game can hard as **** The game 
 keeps u in suspense all the way through. Now the gameplay was great but it did drag on a little 
 in the castle a bit but other than that the game is a masterpiece. I loved the over the shoulder 
 view just set this game apart from the rest. All the people who have never played this game have 
 missed out on possibly one of the best games in history. cant wait for resi 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: singe2241
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  resident evil 4 is one of those games that comes once every 100 years and i am not kidding this 
 is one of those games 
  
  resident evil 4 is a survival horror and it is amazing the way you head shot someone the way you 
 dont know what will happen next or what will come around the corner.
  
  Graphics: the graphics are really good in this game from cutscenes to gameplay
  
  controls: good 
 for wii
  
  Storyline: The story is very compelling and you have to know what will happen next because it is 
 so good.
  
  Gameplay: This is the most fun i have ever had with a single player game. The campain will take 
 about 17 hours and after that you unlock so many more things such as a new campaign, a bonus level 
 and mercenaries which you chose a character and loacation and try to survive for an amount of time 
 (to bad you cant play this in multiplayer) . when you have finished the single player you can play 
 it over and over again with more powerful weaponsand on much harder difficulties.
  
  overall: this is a game you cant miss on the wii it is outstanding and a must buy for what ever 
 price 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardabs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  OK maybe not that much but... yea. its fun to hit zombies with a bullet and play with them, like 
 by knifing them and kicking them in the face. the story is really immersive as it unfolds until 
 the end. there are loads of characters that are very mysterious and you get to find out about them 
 in the game play. and in the story i find out that they injected me with the las plagas virus and 
 i get so pissed off i start nailing everyone i see even the merchant (who sells you goodies... obviously) 
 dies against my will (lols) .
  the bosses are amazing and fun they take s#!+ from Leon who is a bada$$ guy with nice hair. like 
 one of them is a Freddy Couger + an FD up Santa x a millipede that you incinerate so that his top 
 half looks like that but then you separate his legs and then you... oh its just to fun!. you occasionally 
 get into a hole bunch of traps that are fun to do as you go into a maze that they say is hard but 
 is actually surprisingly easy but there are a whole bunch of wolves that pop from the bushes and 
 boom they start nailing on you and im like oh $#!+ this is crazy and my adrenaline heightens then 
 i start moving the left stick up n down to get him off of me and people who can see me out the 
 window of my house see me and they think i do some nasty stuff (lols) . its also fun to cut barrels 
 and hope that you get ammo, as capcom did a good job in trying to keep ammo scarce but still enough 
 to do the task. at the beginning i was so scared but than after you just unload all your ammo (or 
 should i say rage) you develop a fun factor in the game. 
  
  it is great on any platform defenitly get it. i hope this helps. also get re5. you should check out 
 on youtube psychadelicsnake 's channel he has an awesome walk through of the game with bonus commentary ( 
 definitely a +++) it is so funny. it inspired me to play this game. just check it out you'll love 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daniel_br
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 is a amazing game that should be played by everyone. This game have a great gameplay, 
 high replay, gorgeous cutscence and a lot of action that makes you play it at least 3 times again 
 and you will want more.
  
  This version for Nintendo Wii is the best, because the gameplay was changed to make use of the 
 wiimote, so what is vicious and great, became extreme addictive for everyone who played it before 
 and more intuitive for the beginners. 
  
  The graphics are great, like the Gamecube version, but they could make it a lot better. The sound 
 is good and makes the game more immersive. The gameplay as I said is the best part of the game 
 and of this version because the wiimote works flawless with the RE4 controls. Another good stuff 
 is that you can play the extras of PS2 version in the Wii with a better graphics and gameplay.
 
  
  If you don't played this game until now make a favor for yourself and buy it now, because it's 
 a instant classic that everyone should play, and if you played it before and liked it a lot I think 
 it's time to remember of this classic.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tag599
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 8:08 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 is one of my favorite games ever created due to the fact that you get kick-ass 
 and take names... or limbs.
  
  The best part is the story, which is pretty deep by the way, is that it sucks you in easily and 
 quickly. I kind of miss the original story with the T Virus and Zombies roaming the streets idea, 
 but I'm not complaining all that much.
  
  It seems to be a little easy, but of course, it is the Wii version.
  
  The best part of RE4 
 is the different view point you experience rather than the far away 3rd person view (which wasn't 
 bad at all) but this just made the game fresh and likable for much more people out there while 
 not jeopardizing the old fan base.
  
  This game is soooo cool, you'll play and beat it at least twice because of the rewards you can 
 get through out the game so it's a definite buyer!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: superawsomedman
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Where do I start? Well, probably by telling you that this is one of the greatest, if not the greatest 
 game of all time. The Gamecube version was considered a masterpiece. This version takes it one 
 more step.
  This version only differs from the Gamecube version only in the fact that it has the bonus content 
 of the PS2 version, which gives you another couple of reasons to play this game again. The controls 
 have also been altered to fit the Wii remote, and it worked out incredibly. The game feels much 
 better. But, if you liked the Gamecube controller more and miss the laser sights on all your guns, 
 you can play using a classic controller or a Gamecube controller by unplugging the Nunchuck before 
 the main screen, and when it asks you to plug it back in, just plug in the classic or Gamecube 
 controller to play. Be warned, though, the game is insanely hard using the laser sights. But you 
 can switch back if you want to, so at least give it a try.
  The game's main storyline is a little short, but incredibly fun. It comes in at about 10-15 hours 
 for the advanced player, depending on how much you adventure in the game. The better you get, the 
 faster the game progresses (I am on my 4th playthrough, and I got to 4-1 in 5 hours. Not a record, 
 but just saying the game goes by a bit more quickly) . Even though the game is short, the plot is 
 amazing. When the game is over, you will feel a sense of victory, bvut you will be left wanting 
 more. Thankfully, upon beating the main storyline, you unlock exactly that.
  ALL of the special content (not including the names of bonus weapons) is already told about in the 
 manual, so this is not a spoiler. When you beat the game, you unlock Assignment Ada, where you 
 play as Ada in a quick side mission that takes about 3 hours to beat. There are no save points, 
 but that is because it is so short. You also unlock Mercenaries, which is a minigame where you 
 choose a character and attempt to kill as many people as you can. The combat was one of the strong 
 points of the game, and this mode really gives you a taste of that. If you do well in each of Mercenaries' 
 4 stages, you will unlock a character for use in Mercenaries. Beat every stage with every character 
 with the highest score possible, and you will unlock one of the best weapons in the game in the 
 main storyline. Depending on your skill level, you could probably beat Mercenaries in 2-20 hours (I 
 still haven't unlocked everyone yet) . New to the Nintendo consoles, there is a bonus mode called 
 Separate 
  Ways from the PS2 version. This lets you play a brand new storyline as Ada, and throughout this 
 game, you discover all of the secrets from the main storyline. This is not a minigame, but a complete 
 storyline, the game takes another 9-14 hours to beat. Lastly, there is a movie browser to view 
 all of the cutscenes from the main storyline and Separate Ways, which is VERY useful and fun, and 
 another movie browser for Ada's reports. 
  Along with all of the replay value, the game clocks in at about at least 100 hours, if not 200. 
 You can easily play more. The game is also $20 at Gamestop, less used. There is no reason to not 
 buy this game, unless you are under 18 and don't have parental permission. If you don't have a 
 Wii, you can get the Gamecube, PS2, or PC version, although none of them is as great as the Wii 
 version. Please, give this game a try. You won't regret it. P. S. This game is very violent, grotesque, 
 and gory. If you don't like that stuff, stay away, or man up and give it a try. If you're anyone 
 else, you will love this game and it's awesome head explosions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hXcAndy32
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  I owned this game on Gamecube and played through it 6 times then bought it the week it came out 
 on Wii and have played through it another 6 times in addition to all of the side missions.
  
  It is that good.
  
  This will meet all your survival-horror needs. Never have I played 
 a game that lives up to this one. The graphics are great, the gameplay is just down right fun. 
 This was the first video game to ever make me jump. Just because it's cheap doesn't mean it should 
 be disregarded. I would have paid $50 for this game even though I had beaten it many times. I have 
 never played any other game as much as I have this one.
  
  If you're wondering if you should buy it even after playing it on Gamecube, the answer is YES. 
 There are a lot of additions that shouldn't be missed out on.
  
  If you like survival-horror games and have not played this yet, you are truly missing out. Go buy 
 this game right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samslayer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is really amazing. I've played RE4 on the GameCube and I really enjoyed the experience, 
 so I wanted to buy it for the Wii once I got the system. I was even more blown away.
  
  The control scheme that the Wii provides is truely amazing. It allows the ease of using the wiimote 
 to aim, but also provides a more authentic experience as well. 
  
  I did not see a large improvement in how the game looks. The lines seem to be a bit smoother, but 
 in reality there isn't a real big change. This is ok, because the semi-grainy look works very well 
 with the atmosphere. Overall, the game looks good, there really isn't any spot that needs a large 
 improvement.
  
  There is one thing that I am disappointed in. I wish there was a little more added content, at 
 least specific for the wii. However, this does not turn me away from the game, and I believe I 
 will be playing this one for many days to come! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bleux33
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is good, but there are some bad things about it. First it is not that scary then you 
 think. Second of all you can't buy ammo. Third of all it is so short there is only about 6 chapters. 
 The thing that made me so mad, is some of the enemies shout before they attack. You can't be suprised 
 by an enemy. By my review you think this game is bad, but it is not. You can aim with the wii remote. 
 You can slash stuff with the wii remote. the game has alot of cool cut scenes. There are alot of 
 weapons and you will just love shooting zombies heads off which is so fun, the heads explode. The 
 thing that makes this game so much fun is the things you can do or get when you beat the game like 
 Play as Ada. You can see her part of the story. I want to see the part where she was shooting saddler 
 with the I think TMP. This game is good. I gave it a 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Napolean366
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Ok first off, I first played this game when i was about 11 years old on the GC and i thought it 
 was uber-hard... but there was something about that couldnt keep me away. Now its back and better 
 than ever with even more content than before. With a mix of the GC graphics and the extras from 
 PS2... this game is well worth your money (about 30$) . So basically... even for the Wii the graphics 
 are amazing, the sound is top-notch, and the control scheme is is well-thought out with the Wii-mote. 
 If you like the classic gameplay you can still use the GC controller. Also the enemys in the game 
 are smart and come in wide-varities. ie. there are ganados (zombies) , Dr. Salvador (evil chainsaw 
 dude) , and my personal favorite the Iron Maiden (Spiky humanoid) . The only thing that i wish they 
 could of added was a multiplayer. And the voice acting is great. So overall this game is a must-buy 
 for any Wii owner unless you would miss the multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macabre190788
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil, I'm not a big fan of the series. I used to own Resident Evil 2, but I never bothered 
 to play it all the way through. In fact, I'm not a big fan of survival horror games in general. 
 So why did I play through Resident Evil 4 while loving every second of it? I guess the simple reason 
 is that it's way more action-packed. RE4 successfully mixes elements of action/adventure with survival 
 horror. Starting the game you'll notice the major change from the previous games, the camera. The 
 new camera works, not only does it work, it completely changes the series, for the better.
  
  After getting used to the controls, which actually takes a while, you'll have a great time 
 shooting zombies. Wait, zombies? Oh, that's right, no zombies in this game. Instead you get these 
 infected spanish people attacking you. Does it matter? No, they pretty much act like zombies, some 
 can run though. And the bosses, man, the bosses. They're awesome, easy, but awesome. 
  
  I wasn't really scared or jumpy while playing the game, but the music is chilling. The voice acting 
 is surprisingly good as well, isn't that Rino Romano voicing that spanish good guy? You know, Romano, 
 the voice of Batman in "The Batman"? Anyway, yeah, the audio portion of this game is more or less 
 flawless.
  
  If you haven't played the game before, like me. This is an excellent way to discover it for the 
 first time. The Wii controls are spot on, and if you don't like them, you can just use the Gamecube 
 controller. This is undoubtedly a classic. Now, can Resident Evil 5 top this? We'll find out next 
 year. I know I will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toon_Link87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 Wii Edition is an awesome game, especially for the price I got it which was $20 
 dollars new. Although there really isn't anything new as far as content this game still has a to 
 offer.
  
  The best feature this game has that no other version has is the specific Wii controls. In this 
 game, the nunchuck and the Wii remote provide a whole new experience of playing this game. One 
 way it does this is by utilizing the motion controls. Using your knife in this game is easy, all 
 you have to do is wave your Wii remote. Other parts of the game use the motion controls as well, 
 such as scenes that will make you wave the remote to dodge an attack. This game also uses the Wii 
 remote's pointer function to use your gun. Using the gun is simple, all you have to do is hold 
 B and point on the screen to aim, and then simply press A to shoot.
  
  This game also has some cool content in it, although its nothing new. After you beat the main game 
 you can unlock some really cool different games, weapons, and new clothing for the main characters. 
 This content is great and it makes the game have better replay value, but its the exact same things 
 as the PS2 version. It would have been great if Capcom made some more content just for the Wii.
 
  
  The gameplay is a little different than other Resident Evil games. Resident Evil 4 focuses more 
 on action and has a faster pace than problem solving like the other Resident Evils. Also in this 
 game you are not fighting actual zombies, which means the enemies are a little smarter, and they 
 actually use weapons like pitchforks, axes, and knifes. Some of the really tough enemies have better 
 weapons like chainsaws and machine guns. Many fans of the older Resident Evil do not like the change 
 in gameplay however I thought it was a great new direction for the series.
  
  The graphics are still great despite it being a port from a last generation system. Everything 
 in the game is detailed and really great looking. The graphics do a great job in making a scary 
 atmosphere for this game. The sounds are pretty good also. When music does play, it usually helps 
 create the creepy atmosphere. The voice acting is also decent.
  
  Overall, for the price you can get this game now I would say it is definitely worth it. The game 
 is fun, can be challenging at times, and will last you awhile especially if you play all the extra 
 content. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skydog7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  It will be too easy for some but a excellent game for the Wii If it is too easy then turn up the 
 heat. Played all the series up to date. this is the best by far.
  
  It is better played with the Wii crossbow but it still can be played with the Wii remote. Cant 
 wait til RE5
  Graphic are good comparing it to other games on the Wii Sound is excellent better with surround 
 sound. Although the PS2 and Xbox may look better with the graphics the fun of the Wii makes it 
 far out wiegh the better graphics of the other systems. Some of the puzzles are way too easy but 
 the different armorment you get to use and the sound effects make up for the shortness of the game. 
 U can replay it as many times as you want and it is still fun!!
  
  The price is right also.
  
  Only main issue is if u replay a scence twice you can beat it. 
 nothing really changes after about the 3rd time played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shalafein
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, so i got the game not really expecting much, but i was surpised. the graphics are really 
 good for a Wii game, the Gameplay is ok i dont know if the other ones that you had to stop and 
 shoot which i didnt like, cause if i had to run away i couldnt shoot and run i had to stop.... aim.... fire, 
 then run, stop... aim... fire. and the story to the game was ummmm wierd. it didnt make much sense 
 and some of the Characters werent the best ive seen better none of them were cool or awesome. Some 
 of the bad guys werent cool. But the good side is that the voice acting was good, really good. 
 And the weapons were good i wished you could buy ammo. but other then that it was a great game, 
 you also get more then your money's worth, in the game you get like mini games that are cool and 
 fun. But i think this game would have been even better with Co-Op. All in all the beginning was 
 the best part then it kinda fell apart after that, but i was a great ame i wuld recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperReviews
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  The Resident Evil series is most recognized for violence. But, why? Resident Evil 4 can be recognized 
 for all the reasons. Resident Evil 4 is OBVIOUSLY the best in the series. Memorable Death Sequences 
 are easy to remember. But one thing holds true: Leon S. Keneddy is the coolest cop alive.
  
  Gameplay 5/5: Resident Evil 4 is a crazy game. I can't evil tell if it's a platformer, 1st 
 person shooter, or whatever. But it still keeps it good. With OoT-like Equips, Resident Evil 4 
 could possibly be considered an RPG at some parts during the game.
  
  Controls 5/5: Since this is under the Wii game, I must say: BEST CONTROLS ON THE WII. I don't care 
 what Mario Galaxy or Brawl people say. The controls brought swinging Wiimotes fun again!
  
  Music 5/5: The Music for Re4 is spooky and is perfectly fitting!
  
  Leon S. Keneddy 5/5: Leon 
 is the coolest cop I've ever seen. It doesn't matter about the Narc guy or whatever. Leon will 
 kill any zombie he sees, and this is truly cool!
  
  Overall, Resident Evil 4 gets a 10. If I could rate it highter than 10, I would! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ogachi
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  This is the fourth installment in the Resident Evil series and you take on the role of Leon S. 
 Kennedy, one of the protagonists from the second game, in an unknown location somewhere in Spain. 
 You will go through the game fighting "zombies", Infected parasites, giant monsters, and insane 
 chainsaw wielding mad men. The style of the game play has changed extremely going from fixed cameras 
 and guessing at aiming to over the shoulder full control aiming, which does make it easier to take 
 down the hordes of enemies. It is an extremely challenging game. This version also has the Ada 
 side story like the PlayStation version had and the graphics of the Gamecube version. The dialogue... Well 
 it's not that great. But that's not important, this all about the game play. This is a milestone 
 in the survival horror gaming genre. A must have for any gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vividnightmare
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition is exactly what you'd expect yet on second thought it's less. How 
 so? While Resident Evil 4 is still just as fun as before that turns out being it's weakness, it's 
 just the same as before except for the addition of Wii controls instead of the Gamecube controls. 
 The game hasn't been updated or upgraded in any way which for some games would be a positive, but 
 Capcom rarely does bad work so the lack of an update is rather disappointing. 
  
  Controls  The controls this time around are based off of the Wii-mote and Nun-Chuck, you can also 
 use the classic controller but if you do you're missing the point of getting the Wii edition since 
 the controls are the only new thing here. Without a doubt in my mind the Wii controls are ten times 
 better and more enjoyable then the Gamecube, which says something since I loved the Gamecube edition. 
 Aiming is now much easier and more accurate, the funny thing is that Capcom didn't lower the damage 
 of weapons even though you can fire much more accurately much more quickly now. This is a good 
 thing though as combat feels more intense with the new controls. As well now the games QTE combat 
 system, the system in which you rapidly would press buttons to shake off an enemy or fight a boss, 
 has now been transferred over to the Wiis motion sensing which has made it MUCH more enjoyable. 
 Now instead of mashing buttons and dying anyway, if you can hit the motions correctly you may have 
 a solid chance. Most notable is a knife fight that takes place in the game, with the old button 
 mashing layout this was a rather difficult part for some, but now with the Wii-mote it is fun but 
 much less frustrating. The only down side, if you want to call it that, to these new controls is 
 the inventory system which hasn't been updated. This isn't a serious issue just an annoyance since 
 while the game offers you a sort of point and click interface with fighting the inventory works 
 off the D-pad of the controller and by such is slightly disorienting if you switch to the menu 
 during heavy combat or right after. It's a small detail though and does nothing to hinder the games 
 quality.
  
  Story  The story is the exact same as the Gamecube. Leon, the young R. P. D recruit from Resident 
 Evil 2 now works for a secret organization and is on a mission to rescue the president's daughter. 
 Through a series of events you find there is a much more sinister plot a foot than a simple kid 
 napping and end up more or less saving the world by the end. It's a great story, again though it 
 was a great story the first time.
  
  Graphics  This is where the ball was dropped. There is NO graphical update what so ever from the 
 original on the Gamecube. This is very disappointing. Now I believe avid Wii fanatics probably 
 won't notice this if the Wii is the only thing you play. I and others on the other hand are used 
 to playing the Xbox 360 and the Playstation 3. While I know the Wii isn't as graphically capable 
 as either of those the fact that zero cosmetic upgrades were made is very disappointing, switching 
 from a 360 or a PS3 to this is almost painful on the eyes at times. While the game does tend to 
 keep quality with some of the lower quality titles out today on the 360 and PS3 it certainly feels 
 as if some sort of update could have been made from the Gamecube to the Wii.
  
  Overall  Resident Evil 4: Wii edition is great, but only slightly better than the Gamecube edition 
 and ONLY because of controls. Nothing else is new or better, for those that are serious Resident 
 Evil fans this is a must buy since it's just an upgrade control wise from the original. For those 
 that never played the 4th Resident Evil and own a Wii this is a must have to add to your collection 
 as well. But for those of you that played the Gamecube edition and got your fill of it, you need 
 not bother with this title. The game is good, but the lack of graphical update makes the game less 
 immersive than it was years back and can be down right disappointing at times with some really 
 weak texture work at certain parts of the game. The game is still enjoyable though without a doubt, 
 but this is really just the Gamecube version with motion controls and nothing else. For 20 dollars 
 I would say anyone who likes Resident Evil should buy it regardless, it's a good add to the collection. 
 The problem being that at the time I bought this game I got it brand new for 29.99 and I had to 
 really look around for it because Capcom no longer makes RE4: Wii Edition, so if you must have 
 it I recommend finding it online because I had to go through five Gamestops before I found ONE 
 copy and I did find the ONLY copy. Of course used the game IS much easier to find and in stock 
 at many stores, but if you're like me a used game just doesn't shine in a collection. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghaz013
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  -Pros-
  *Awesome story w/ twists and turns
  *Creepy Visuals
  *Immersive Audio
  *Hair-Standing Gameplay
  *Upgradable Weapons
  *Addition of Wii remote make it better than a 
 controller
  *Movie like Cutscenes
  *Light but fun puzzles
  *Bonus Content
  *Mini/Side games
  *Fun and scary boss battles
  *Extra goodies you wont find unless you explore
 
  *Superb level design
  *Cutscenes MAKE you pay attention (No Spoilers)
  *Ability to play as different characters
  *A few, but short lived funny dialogues
  
  -Cons-
 
  *Poor Dialogue
  *Controls can be overwhelming to newcomers
  *Went through alot of adult diapers
  
  This is a great game I picked up for $15 at Gamestop. 
 Its got alot of replay value and theres alot of extra bonus content to unlock. I could have paid 
 $30 and not shed a tear, theres just that much fun on the disc.
  
  Highly recommended 10/10
  
  *Note- This was one of my first games to play on the Wii. Luckily 
 I picked it up rather fast. Older folks like my parents had trouble with all the controls in this 
 game. While I thought the control scheme was done very well, I can see how this game would appeal 
 to younger players who can be more adept at picking up the more elaborate control system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowSonic20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil has re-created the meaning of survival horror in the gaming world. Ever since it's 
 first installment, the Resident Evil series had captured the element of fear while providing solid 
 gameplay and characters. Now, a whole new system is created, ever since approaching the Playstation 
 2 system, some of the 'horror' was removed and replaced by a basis of action. While some funs may 
 shun the game in utter disappointment because of their love of the first three, others look at 
 the great graphics, acting, weaponry, and overall gameplay.
  
  I mean honestly, this is one heck of a game. It includes features that have never been thought 
 of in the past numbers. The pace of the game keeps you guessing and the replay ability is extremely 
 high. One could not say enough about it, although I did enjoy how the originals were.
  
  So change for the better or worse? I don't know about the consistency of the series, but this game 
 is a NEED buy not a must buy. It is just to great to pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samet04106
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 5:04 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition will give you the taste that you want from this game.
  
  As you all know, Resident Evil series are Horror Action Adventure Game. You'll want Horror, Action 
 and Adventure in these. Definitely, You'll get it in RE4.
  I only played this version and I loved it. I'll try Resident Evil: The Umbrella Chronicles, and 
 I think, it's also worth to play.
  
  Boss fight is a bit hard but you'll know how to kill boss. You'll kill all boss the same way. "Hit 
 his eyes". But you never bored from this feature.
  
  Sometimes you'll upset because of losing your friend, sometimes you'll happy when you kill the 
 boss who kill your old friend. That is to say, this is great story.
  
  At last 30 min, of game, You will suffer out of ammo problem. This is the only bad side of game. 
 Other all features will satisfy you. Don't catch this game, Just buy it.
  
  I wish Resident Evil 5 will be out for WII too. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyperactiveno1
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  From the grapics to game play I give this game a 10/10. The voice acting doesn't even suck (like 
 in the first RE *cough*) ! xD Im actually glad they had the Chicago Typewriter as one of the guns 
 in the game since you don't need to find ammo. The controls of this game were smooth and so was 
 the game play. And for the more expirienced players there is professional mode. The costumes were 
 very handy too. Like the suit of armor for Ashley. This game is very well done.
  
  
  The plot is interesting, but the only tiny flaw is it doesn't really invlove much about UMBRELLA. 
 This game seems like a sub- RE game to introduce the new Leon and Ada. Oh well though.. its one 
 helluva game. It's alsp too bad that they didn't have a co-op mode. That would have been pretty 
 cool. RE4 is very addicting, I can't stop playing it! xD
  
  This game was the first RE game I ever played and it made me into a RE fan. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakes3425
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Ah Resident Evil, if there was ever a game that defined the Survival Horror genre, it's this series, 
 and RE4 takes the series to a whole new level, in terms of atmosphere, enemies and storyline.
 
  
  RE4 picks up six years after the events in Racoon City. The once powerful Umbrella Corperation, 
 has collasped under the fallout from the Racoon City incident. The player takes control of Leon, 
 a member of an elite government unit tasked with protecting the President's daughter. When the 
 president's daughter is kidnaped by a mysterious cult operating out an old spanish village, Leon 
 is deployed to rescue her. However he finds that the villiage's inhabitants have been driven completely 
 insane by the cult, and Leon must fight his way through the village, in order to accomplish his 
 mission. 
  
  All in all the game is a fairly well done port, preserving much of RE4's atmosphere, and dark storyline. 
 The atmosphere is only enhanced by the game's graphics, which are Wii graphics at their best. The 
 enemies the player entounters through out the game are extremely well done, and have a nice depth 
 of realism to them in both their appearence and behavior. 
  
  However, like every game, even RE4 has it's flaws, and the biggest of these are it's controls. 
 While the WiiMote's motion sensing technolgoy is used to aim your weapon and preform meele attacks, 
 this can become very dissorenting, especally in the thick of a battle. However the worst feature 
 the game has is that the B and A buttons are swapped. Instead of A preps your weapon and B (the 
 trigger button) fires, B preps your weapon and A shoots. This set up ultimatly makes use of a lightgun 
 accessory all but immposible, and will alienate many gamers who are used to the trigger button 
 being the fire button. The game's other major flaw is that you are unable to change the button 
 layout.
  
  Dispite the flaws it has with the controls, RE4 is actually one of the best Wii games out there, 
 and a excellent hard core game that the Wii desperatly needed in order to break it's kids only 
 feel. Over all the game will appeal to fans of Resident Evil and Survival Horror in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  PROS: Excellent audiovisual presentation; great story; great voice acting; the game provides intense, 
 gory action throughout; the controls work so well with a Zelda Wii gun; bonus extras to play through 
 and unlock; lots of wise-cracking jokes throughout; memorable boss battles
  CONS: The aiming can be a plodding chore since the Wii remote isn't all that steady; the difficulty 
 level could've been tuned down a bit.
  
  The Resident Evil series has always been the source for survival horror games. But calling Resident 
 Evil 4 the best game in the series would be an insult, since this is not only the best survival 
 horror game ever to be released, but one of the best action games I've played and one of the best 
 games of 2007. Resident Evil 4 is an excellent game, with its lengthy adventure filled tons of 
 zombies and added extras. This game obviously isn't for people who are afraid of anything that 
 has to do with horror, but it's too bad that they're missing all of the elements Resident Evil 
 4 has to offer.
  
  You don't actually have to be a Resident Evil fan to understand the plot or to enjoy the game. 
 But Resident Evil fans who've played Resident Evil 2 will recognize the game's main character, 
 Leon S. Kennedy, a government agent investigating a small village in Spain where the US president's 
 kidnapped daughter was sighted. Resident Evil 4 was being claimed as the game that sends the series 
 in a new and exciting direction. The statement takes action just moments after the game begins, 
 where Leon is confronted by a weird man who ignores the threat of Leon's revolver as he steps towards 
 him, axe in hand. You'll encounter similar threats like his throughout the game, and they are creepy, 
 showing basic signs of intelligence to try to kill you. If hesitant about killing them, you won't 
 be after just one slash from a pitchfork. Around five minutes into the game, you'll find the small 
 village Pueblo, and when the villagers spot you, around twenty of them come out along with Dr. 
 Salvador, a villager with a potato sack covering his face along with a chain saw in hand. Without 
 spoiling anything, those villagers are just the beginning.
  
  Throughout the game you'll view this gory action from a third-person view behind Leon, and when 
 you ready a weapon (depending on which one) the camera will zoom in to give you a close over-the-shoulder 
 view. Most of the combat revolves around close quarter shooting, and the aiming is best with the 
 Zelda Wii Gun (that's how I played through the game) but it isn't that steady all the time, though 
 sniping is surprisingly easy. You can't move and shoot at the same time, but Resident Evil 4 plays 
 just like a typical shooter otherwise. While aiming a weapon, it can be a bit tricky to get headshots 
 on your enemy, since the Wii Remote tends to get shaky in your hand. You'll also lose your peripheral 
 vision when aiming at what's in front of you, since you won't be able to see what's on either side 
 or behind you without turning.
  
  Your foes also love to try to surround you, making you want to kill them before they kill you in 
 some memorable but horrible way. The enemy design in Resident Evil 4 is really amazing. The inability 
 to side step your enemies isn't really a bad part about the game, but it makes you feel like you're 
 both watching a horror movie and actually walking in Leon's shoes. One of the best parts about 
 the actual gameplay is how you kill the enemy. You can either trip up a ganado (that's what the 
 zombie's are called) and put his lights out by a shot to the head. Another good way is by shooting 
 an enemy in the head making him stagger as if hit by a stone instead, and you'll be able to perform 
 a roundhouse kick that sends him spiraling to the ground, where you'll be able to knife him. When 
 multiple foes surround you, a way to draw some distance is by running away from them, and even 
 though Leon doesn't run all that fast, you'll be able to see enemies on either side of you. Another 
 cool thing they added was the ability to either quietly open a door or to just violently kick it 
 open. You can kick, shoot or knife locks that are on some doors, though some are on the other side 
 so you'll have to find another way around. There are some puzzle elements, but they aren't all 
 that hard and they make you think (not that you didn't already) but they are a nice addition to 
 the core gameplay.
  
  Leon's arsenal will expand from shotguns, sniper rifles, pistols, magnums and even a rocket launcher. 
 All this can be viewed in his attache case, where all his weapons are stored. You can rearrange 
 the case by moving some items around to make more room, but it can sometimes be a plodding chore 
 when your case is jam packed. There are healing items throughout the game called herbs, and you 
 can mix some up to increase your overall health (which is a bar on screen) or to completely fill 
 your health to maximum. As for ammo, you'll find some lying around in smashable pots and crates, 
 and one out of every three or four enemies drops either ammo or money. You can save up money to 
 get new weapons from a mysterious merchant along the way. You can sell your weapons to gain more 
 money, or you can upgrade your weapons. What would you want to upgrade? You can upgrade your weapon's 
 power, firing speed, reloading speed, or more bullets in your weapon's round. You can buy new weapons, 
 a bigger attache case, accessories for your weapons (stock, scope) but you can't actually buy ammo. 
 Overall the merchant system is a nice addition. If you want to save your game, there are typewriters 
 throughout the game, usually right by a merchant where you can save your game. The story is told 
 through either letters you'll find or through cinematic cutscenes.
  
  One of the best parts about Resident Evil 4 is the audiovisual presentation. Everything looks very 
 detailed, and the cutscenes look great. Some enemies look terribly lifelike, adding to the game's 
 realism. Even the smallest objects have detail, and Leon along with others look like they could 
 actually be real people. It's hard to say if the audio is even better than the visuals, since the 
 sound is truly outstanding. The only problem I had with the actual game is the difficulty level. 
 The game could be beaten in around 20-30 hours, but there are some parts that are very frustrating, 
 so I think they could've tuned down the difficulty level a little bit. You probably will want to 
 play Resident Evil 4 again, just to experience the adventure again. But there's also bonus content 
 and unlockable weapons to look into. For anyone who likes shooters or survival horror games, this 
 is the best there is.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastiffchild
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who cares will now have a good opinion on this but here's mine to bore you for a bit. Leon 
 Kennedy is back and the legions of the infected, their great bosses (Salazar has to have the best 
 voice for any boss ever-whinetastically shrill) and sundry natural problems all lay in his troubled 
 path to save the"Lovely" Pres's daughter Ashley Graham from her own fate worse than death.
  
  Practically perfect in every way. Possibly my favourite PS2 game ported lovingly to the Wii 
 with, imo, the awful control system exchanged for one that really works from the off. It says loads 
 that a game which I'd seen almost exactly the same before still gripped like it did even with just 
 the one major change. Yes, i'm sure many, like me, could have done with more Ada and less whiny 
 Ashley "action" but there you go-you can't have it all. TBH, I'm through boring you. Just brilliantly 
 done all the way through with the controls fixing the games only real problem in the first place.
 
  
  There could have been a real problem porting a bona fide classic that people already care deeply 
 about to another system so long after the event but Capcom's masterpiece more than survives the 
 experience-maybe Wesker had something to do with that operation too. Very, very classy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Essian
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so just for kicks I am going to review a game that I dont exactly love. This game is definately 
 great, but it has a few gameplay quirks that really drive me insane. I will probably get flamed 
 for giving this game less than an 8.5, but so be it. Here is my review of Resident Evil 4:
  
  Story: The fact that this is a Resident Evil game should cue you to the very nature of the 
 story. BUT WAIT! There are no zombies in this game! That's right, no mutilated corpses chasing 
 after you. Now you have some spaniards who honestly look like they havent bathed in a few years 
 chasing after you. The story is actually more intriguing than the games before it in my opinion, 
 but thats just me. What really surprised me is that some of the voice acting didnt make me want 
 to hurl. Sorry guys, but no "Jill sandwich" worthy line can be found in this game.
  
  Gameplay: Okay, so this is where it gets tough. I have to say that many of the aspects of this 
 game make it quite a bit of fun. You get to pop enemies in the knees, head, and other parts of 
 their body to watch them fall over. Yes thats right, you get to shoot less priveledged people and 
 then proceed to laugh at them... until their chainsaw happy friend finds you. However, there are 
 some annoying quirks to the gameplay that I just cannot understand. First of all, the game obviously 
 follows standard action routes, but following a traditional (lets limit your ammo) game mechanic. 
 They either should have made it less like an action title or given us more ammo. If it means stronger 
 enemies, then great, but let me shoot them instead of trying to knife groups of 10! That is my 
 next point. If you want to me to conserve ammo, then for the love of whatever god you believe in, 
 dont pit me up against groups of 3-7 enemies. While I try to knife a few of em, the rest will shove 
 sickles up my butt. Not a fun time. Lastly, if you are going to limit ammo, dont make it essentially 
 mandatory that we kill every enemy we see. Let us pick our battles like in previous games. Honestly, 
 these few gameplay faults can really get on your nerves after a while.
  
  Graphics: Graphically, this game is pretty good. You get some great varying environments, all of 
 which are atmospheric and creepy, and each with their own style. You arent going to be running 
 through generic gray corridors in this game. The enemies also look pretty good, and the bosses 
 are absolutely disgusting. Great graphics really do compliment this game, thats for sure.
  
  Overall: This is the kind of game that you really want to love, but find that you just cant. 
 It just has a few gameplay faults that keep you from devoting yourself to it, and for that reason, 
 I just cant recommend this game to everyone. If you like situations where you really have to conserve 
 ammo despite having groups of foes to kill, then this game is for you. However, if you think that 
 having to kill loads of enemies with limited ammo sound annoying, then you are probably best avoiding 
 this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 10/10
  First thing i wanna point out is the gameplay in Re4 is the best of any other game in the genre 
 simply because its unique and controls flawlessly. And on the wii it only gets better, since the 
 wii uses mothion control you really get the full feel of being leon and you feel like you're actually 
 getting chased by chainsaw weildind maniacs. But of course this game is not for the faint of heart, 
 why? because its full of blood, guts, gore, slime, ooze and pretty much anything nasty and stomach 
 churning. But its fun none the less and the wii is the best way to play this game bar none.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  Now few games from the last gen systems could top Re4 and its still hard 
 to top it. The wii version is simply the nicest looking version since it can be played in 480p. 
 Its gonna take an amazing looking game to top Re4.
  
  Sound 9/10
  The sound of heads exploding and guts falling to the ground are both disgusting and awesome since 
 capcom found a way to make thoes sounds. Also the guns and voice acting aren't to shabby either 
 though there is some goofy diologue. Theres also an unsetting soundtrack that will give you the 
 chills.
  
  Value 9/10
  At 30.00 this game is totally worth it even if you bought it before on a different console. It 
 also has the bonus content from the ps2 and GC so its all here.
  
  The Good 
  Amazing graphics, gameplay, sound and pretty much everything else.
  
  The Bad
  The wii version 
 makes headshots a breeze, No wii exclusive content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bornabuckeye
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  Great story
  absolutely immersive controls
  graphics are great
  gameplay changed to make it more challenging
  
  
  Cons
  Late to the party.
  
  
  As 
 a Resident Evil Homer, I have to say it first.....
  
  ~ Resident Evil 4 is my favorite game of all time. Its absolutely amazing.
  
  The wii version 
 of the game is better than its predecessors based simply on the control scheme. The wii control 
 scheme blends movement and shooting into an easy to grasp amazing feeling that gets more and more 
 rewarding. I have beat this game 4 times on 3 consoles and it is by far the best expirience on 
 the wii.
  
  With subtle changes to the game (less ammo and potions) its by far the most challenging of the 
 series.
  
  The only downfall to this game is that its a little late to the party and quite frankly, this game 
 was "cool" five years ago. If you have a wii and your thinking of getting a survival horror, this 
 is the by far the best offer on the wii hands down.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedler1234
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 3:36 am PT
Review:  The thought of motion control in a resident evil game makes people drool... and the second this 
 came out, i joined a queue to get this game.. and have been rewarded greatly for the wait- this 
 game almost has everything that a solo one player game should have.. 
  
  straight away, you are thrown into a deserted village, confronted by some weak zombies.. but are 
 almost thrown into the deep end straight away with what at first seems like clunky controls.. but 
 as you get a grip for the controls and manage to keep your head and aim properly at the zombies- 
 tihs game gets a lot of fun...
  
  upgrading the guns and blasting the heads of zombies is incredibly satisfying, and aiming with 
 the wii remote just makes it that much better.. the boss battles are intense, scary encounters.. 
 the camera view which is just over Leon (the main characters) shoulder doesnt allow you too see 
 much- which enhances the games scaryness.. 
  
  the atmosphere is made more heavy with the demonic chanting- the occasional silence and the sudden 
 noises that the various animals and zombies make when they pounce you is just incredible.. which 
 makes playing this game alone by yourself, in a dark place pretty much impossible- but a damn good 
 experience..
  
  ive had this game a long time, and am not sick of it.. there is no multiplayer, no replay value, 
 but this experience just should not be missed... working your way through the little mazes and 
 occasional puzzle is greatly rewarding, finding new guns and weapons just makes it more enjoyable.
 
  
  I would have liked some sort of replay value in this game, once you have finished it, there is 
 absolutley no reason to play this again. however if you are looking for a shooter in which you 
 can blast EVERYTHING in sight- do not get this game.. get metroid prime.. in this game, bullets 
 are limited, health is hard to come by, and kills are somewhat tactical. this game is not as linear 
 as you may think.. you need to use your head, and keep your head in tense situations..
  
  the voice acting and graphics are great, and you will not regret buying this game.. get it first/second 
 hand, it doesnt matter just do what it takes to get this game.. this is a great game for when you 
 are alone and bored and have nobody else to play wii with.. but this game will be of no use whatsoever 
 in a wii party/gathering of any sort. this game is frightening and should not be missed. difficult 
 to find flaws with this game, there isnt much you can find wrong with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master-dude
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  Well, the other day I went in to Gamestop looking to buy this game. I picked it up off the shelf 
 and went to the cash register, and I couldn't help thinking is it all it's cracked up to be? Should 
 I believe the hype and amazing ratings of the game? Should I? I was answered at home after I popped 
 the disc in the wii. And I was answered with a "yes." 
  
  I was hooked on it immediately, my eyes fastened on the screen, always ready to blow another zombie 
 away. I couldn't stop playing it was simply the best game I ever played. Everything about it. There 
 was endless action, difficult puzzles, horrifying undead zombies trying to slice, bite, or rip 
 my head off, and finally to top it off, a great story, with twists and surprises and everything 
 a good story should have. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razorbrain_47
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  i would also classify this as "instant classic", "grows on you", and "guilty pleasure".
  
  graphics - 8/10 - not the best graphics, but this is because it is a 2005 game. so for 2005 graphics 
 this would get 10/10.
  
  gameplay - 11/10 - this is the reason i love this game so much. from blowing heads off to the fear 
 of running out of ammo, this game is just amazing. the controls for the wii are the best controls 
 i've ever played for any video game and my favorite controls.
  
  sound - 10/10 - this game has amazing music, sound effects, and voice acting (except ashley's) . 
 there's nothing like running into a room only to hear a monk's sinister whispering or a regenerator's 
 haunting breathing. this game's sound will scare the hell outta you.
  
  story - 9/10 -a little different from the other resident evil games due to the fact that you're 
 not killing zombies, but infected humans. Leon is a very likable character from the beginning. 
 it also has a few surprises in it.
  
  replay value - 10/10 - i dont think i've ever replayed a game so many times, it's that good. plus 
 it includes two mini games and another story mode after you beat the original story mode.
  
  i'm one of those people who hates hard games, but for some reason i didnt find this game to 
 be too challenging. the wii controls help, and everytime you die you start from the last room you 
 entered before you died. if you are looking for a game that you can never get old of, try this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto_88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  What to say, in a lot of characters, about a game that can be simply summed up in two words: "buy 
 it". This game offers a fantastically long and entertaining gameplay, with a great level of difficulty 
 which reminds keen gamers of the good old times when most games would easily take more than 8 hours 
 to beat. 
  
  Let's start by describing the extra content (everything except the main story) . Very entertaining, 
 challenging and addictive. Even when you beat the main story mode you will want to come back and 
 not miss out on the extra missions/story mode, or the timed missions with unlockable extra characters 
 (provided you get high enough scores) . Even challenging your friends to see who can get the highest 
 score on a certain place can be entertaining for weeks.
  
  The controls are pretty much the same throughout, and are so simple that they are reminiscent of 
 arcade games where you are provided with a gun like control and you shoot the screen. That being 
 said, this game is so much more than that , mainly because you control where you go to (where you 
 move) . This will allow you to run into puzzles, mazes, and a number of other obstacles that will 
 keep you busy.
  
  The bosses are incredibly powerful and fun to beat, not impossible but difficult enough for you 
 to try at least a few times. The main story mode is filled with detail, somewhat unravelling the 
 mistery behind the Umbrella Corporation, and somewhat creating even more confusion. And with a 
 number of side quests, you should be busy for quite a while.
  
  The variety of weapons is superb, but the amount of ammo will have you aiming rather than blind-firing 
 everywhere. There may be some times when you run out of bullets and you will have just a knife 
 to defend yourself. My only say to that is: "good luck". That being said, you probably will get 
 enough bullets if you look for them, and kill a few small enemies. The action sequences where the 
 timely press of a button affects whether you live or die is a fantastic addition to the game, and 
 it gives it a more realistic feel.
  
  All in all, a great game, a must buy for avid gamers and newcomers alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karatedude007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  This Game Is amazing. I played it and beat it 12 times. It is worth the money. This game is a very 
 long 3rd person shooter. It takes a least 15 hours, depending how good you are at the game. When 
 I heard this game was coming on to the Nintendo Wii, I was excited. The controls are flawless. 
 It feels like your really in the action. This game took the special features from the game cube 
 and ps2. Now for the only bad part. The motion control works great, but their is not much of it. 
 Also their is not much new extras as I hope. Before you get this game make sure you read about 
 the 2nd one if you have not played it. You need to know the history of Leon and such. If you go 
 to a game store you can get this for about 25 dollars. It is worth every penny. If you love 3rd 
 person shooters and horror games you need to get this game in your Wii collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jomaster007
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  this is perhaps the best game i have ever played on any system and certanly the best on the wii, (not 
 really trying to diss it, I own it) this is first and foremost a classic masterpiece, the gameplay, 
 atmosphere, story, and yes even the visuals are all polished to a high shine. the game offers the 
 most immersive singal player experience i have felt to date. It has absolutely TONS of unluckables 
 to keep you coming again and again it also has multiple weapons and upgrades that allow everyone 
 to choose their own style, and unlike in most games there is not a obvious choice in every category 
 they are actual choices that depend on style without having a clear winner. i have only 2 comlaints 
 about this game but the high quality makes it feel blasphemous to utter anything against it, no 
 multiplayer and 
  
  (spoiler alert) 
  
  ada wong's story speperate ways should have been the main story and leon's a secondary 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bacchus2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 11:05 pm PT
Review:  While Resident Evil 4 : Wii Edition is a remake, it shows how remakes for the Wii should be done. 
 It is a tense survival action game, that makes the most of the available controls.
  
  You play as Leon Kennedy, reprising his role from Resident Evil 2. The game begins with Leon being 
 tasked to track down the presidents daughter, who has disappeared. Leon quickly learns that she 
 has been captured by the Los Illuminados, a sect of infected people. The story unfolds via cutscenes 
 which pop up when Leon reaches certain locations, and other optional information is available for 
 Leon to pick up, such as documents left on tables.
  
  The story is pretty hammy, and the cutscenes are not terribly engaging. You can skip the custscenes 
 entirely and won't be missing any critical information; all critical information, such as new gameplay 
 elements introduced as you play, are stored in a diary so you can look at them at any time. While 
 not bad, the voiceovers in the cutscenes sound lazy.
  
  Thankfully, the gameplay is fantastic. The game is played third person, with the camera close to 
 Leons back. The analog stick on the nunchuck controls your movement, and holding the Z button makes 
 Leon run. Slashing with your knife or going into aim mode (which uses the remote as a pointer) 
 stops Leon in his tracks; there is no running and gunning here. While Leon starts out with a pistol 
 and a knife, he can obtain more weapons. While a scant few can be found lying around the game world, 
 most of them will have to be purchased from merchants if you want to get your hands on them. There 
 are 5 classes of guns, such as shotguns and rifles; each class has a few different weapons to choose 
 from. Furthermore, the merchant offers upgrades for each weapon. Of course, you will need currency 
 to pay for these, which can be dropped by enemies or found in the environments. You can also sell 
 items to the merchant. It's impossible to own all the weapons, and unlikely that you will fully 
 upgrade all the ones you do own. While the latter comes down to money, the former comes down to 
 an interesting inventory system.
  
  At the beginning of the game the inventory screen comprises a case, of 7 by 11 dimensions. This 
 case holds your weapons, ammo, grenades and healing items. If it doesn't fit in the case, you either 
 can't pick it up or buy it, or have to discard something else to make it fit. While your opening 
 inventory doesn't take up much space, as your gun collection grows and you start hoarding ammo, 
 grenades and healing items, you will start to yearn for more space. Luckily, the merchant offers 
 some larger cases as the game progresses for a price.
  
  All these goodies would be useless if you didn't have some interesting enemies to take down with 
 them. When you encounter your first enemy in the game, you realise they bear some similarities 
 to run-of-the-mill zombies, such as no regard for their safety while you fill their skulls with 
 lead, and often with a slow steady march towards you. However, the infected still retain their 
 human traits, and the enemies you face will increase in complexity and wield weapons such as rakes, 
 throwing sickles, and dynamite, as well as some other non-humanoid enemies. At times they will 
 also dash towards you. You quickly learn that running headlong into a group of ganados is often 
 a bad plan; any of their attacks can be disastrous to your health. There is no regenerating health 
 here; health can only be restored by items.
  
  While the stop-to-shoot mechanic might sound restricting, it really adds to the tension of the 
 game, forcing you to judge whether to stand your ground or run for you life. While most of the 
 enemies you fight will be ganados, the number you face at once, the area you have to work with, 
 and the weapons they wield will force you to use a number of different strategies throughout the 
 game. Some of the best battles are scripted events that put you in a challenging spot, such as 
 sealing all the exits while a dozen ganados jump down on all sides from an area above. These battles 
 can be intense, but are extremely satisfying when you come out unscathed. It's also worth noting 
 that while you pick up ammo from the environment and from downed enemies, you can't buy any. This 
 adds another level of depth to the game; making sure you are making the most of your weapons, and 
 risking your safety to get up close and use your knife when you can. There are also some tough 
 enemies that only show up a few times, and some boss battles. These comprise some of the more challenging 
 battles in the game, but again, are extremely satisfying when you take them down.
  
  While the game is mostly linear, the level design is superb. While you will walk through some areas 
 more than once, they are all unique, and a map makes it easy to navigate where you need to go to 
 next. They all exhibit a gritty design, as though colour has been drained from the world, which 
 suits the tone of the game. Some areas have interactive elements, such as ladders that Leon can 
 climb, and also push away from walls to slow down pursuit. There are also some puzzles which break 
 things up nicely, and none of these are too difficult to solve. Save points and checkpoints are 
 also located liberally; you will usually have the opportunity to save after most of the more intense 
 sections of the game. While it is unfortunate that this remake has not had a graphical overhaul, 
 the consistently great art direction in both enemies and environments make it irrelevant. The animations 
 of both Leon and the legions of enemies he fight are varied; enemies won't always react the same 
 way when you send a bullet their way. In any case, they are quite convincing, and should you die 
 at the hands of certain enemies, you are subjected to some brutal death scenes as they stab or 
 dismember you.
  
  The sound is equally impressive. The music is low key, which is mainly just hollow whispers of 
 the wind until some ganados catch sight of you; then it builds to a tense number. Your enemies 
 will often call out in Spanish to each other or mumble under their breath, and when you hear their 
 groans or splashes in the water when they aren't in your field of vision, you will frantically 
 look around, praying they aren't directly behind you. The use of sound is certainly integrated 
 into the experience rather than an afterthought.
  
  Once you have completed the game, you unlock a hard mode. You can also restart the game with your 
 ending inventory, plus some new weapons to buy, which refocuses your careful first playthrough 
 into something more akin to a blastathon. Some other modes are also unlocked, allowing you to play 
 some alternate segments of the game from Ada Wong's pespective, that allow you to play other characters, 
 and a scoring mode. These extra features give you plenty to do after you finish the main game.
 
  
  Resident Evil 4 doesn't go for schlock horror thrills. It will rarely make you jump out of your 
 seat, but it will keep you on the edge of it until the end. The gameplay elements and well-implemented 
 controls add up to make for a thoughtful, deliberate survival shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robert21194
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  this game is great on any system but the wii controls make it a lot easier than it is supposed 
 to be but over all its a great game. the story is about leon s kennedy a special forces member 
 that fought in racoon city. he was sent on a mission in spain to rescue the presidents daughter 
 when he gets to there he gets attacked by the villagers which leads to more things later in the 
 story. the graphics are probably the best on wii. the game play is easy to get used to but it doesn't 
 get dull in the first few days. the controls are much easier than on the other systems its on which 
 makes it slightly shorter than them also. But over it is one of the best games i've played, also 
 the aiming is almost impossible to miss your target unless its a small animal a treasure or the 
 blue medallions most people can do head shots almost every time. the characters are very creative 
 as far as dialogue, story-line, and fighting. so i would give this game about a 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyRice
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  The Good: The graphics are from the Gamecube and the content is from the PS2, making it the best 
 of both worlds; the graphics haven't really aged; the music is haunting, and adds to the intensity 
 of the gameplay; you have plenty of controller options; the story is creepy and incredibly handled; 
 the purposefully B-grade cheesy lines are a delight; I personally got the crap scared out of me; 
 there are multiple difficulties; you can roll over your old weapons; the movie browser is a nice 
 touch; the Wii remote controls are way better than the old ones.
  
  The Bad: ... Yeah, pretend like you're complaining about the 'dated' graphics.
  
  Resident Evil 
 finally changed its ways from controlling the characters like tanks, keeping the camera fixed in 
 place, and a bizarre, dated control scheme with Resident Evil 4 in 2005. The title was first released 
 on Gamecube, with visuals that were spectacular coming from the system, a unique story, and plenty 
 of gore.
  
  The PS2 version came soon after, with weaker graphics, but a new mode called Separate Ways, allowing 
 players to go through a main adventure as Ada Wong.
  
  The PC version... is an epic failure.
  
  So the Wii version was questionable. Was it just a 
 cash-in?
  
  Fortunately no. This is the definitive version of one of the most spectacular titles ever created, 
 and it's a steal at $30.
  
  The story of Leon S. Kennedy coming to save the President's daughter in Spain allows for a change 
 of pace from the regular franchise. You'll be fighting somewhat human enemies, not slow, mindless 
 zombies. This adds to the intensity of the game, as does the fact you can't move and shoot simultaneously. 
 However the game does connect to the rest of the franchise, with Leon, Ada, Wesker and Krauser 
 from previous titles.
  
  It's presumable that this one will tie into the rest of the franchise a bit better in future, but 
 for now we can just enjoy the bizarre and truly scary twists the game throws at us. I'd tell you 
 what you'll be fighting, the story behind the terrifying Plaga Virus and just what Ada and Wesker 
 are searching for, but spoiling this game would be regrettable for you and me both.
  
  The graphics were absolutely amazing on Gamecube, and still hold up pretty well. It's good to see 
 that even though Separate Ways was previously only using PS2 graphics, the engine from the Gamecube 
 version was used for this rendition.
  
  The music is haunting and the voice acting is excellent. It's humorous seeing that Resident Evil 
 4's script is B-grade horror movie type, not as serious as you'd expect. This helps the game avoid 
 feeling too dark, even though it's dark anyway, and it's a nice, clearly purposeful touch.
  
  The control scheme is something people worried about. You can use the Gamecube controller or 
 a Classic Controller if you actually dislike the Wii Remote controls, so either way, you can't 
 complain. However, I found the Wii Remote controls far superior to the old scheme. Aiming is much 
 faster, easier, and feels better, it's much simpler to use the knife, reloading is just as efficient, 
 and the menus are easy to reach and navigate.
  
  Also, if you love the story in a game when it's good, like me, then you'll be glad the Movie Browser 
 allows you to go over previous cutscenes.
  
  People say that this game doesn't scare them at all. The first time you play through as Leon, though, 
 scares me quite a bit. I was truly terrified of the new monstrosities coming at me.
  
  All and all, the controls are better, the graphics and content are the best they've ever been, 
 and this version of RE4 refuses to have a flaw. This is a must play, and it's the best version 
 you could ask for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoulofMikau
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 9
  Tilt: 9
  Value: 10
  
  The Resident Evil series makes its debut on the Wii with Resident Evil 4. It is, in essence, a 
 port of the PlayStation 2 version, meaning it includes bonus content such as Assignment Ada, Separate 
 Ways, etc. Unfortunately the graphics haven't really been updated, and there is no bonus content 
 that's exclusive to the Wii. As an added note, the graphics haven't been improved much; it's basically 
 just a touched up reproduction of the PS2 version.
  
  Now that the con's are out of the way, we'll move straight on to the infinitely more bountiful 
 pro's. The game has a near-perfect score complete with eerie melodies and stark progressions that 
 serve their purpose admirably without trying to do too much. The music is really what makes Resident 
 Evil 4 a survival horror, and on many occasions you'll find your heart racing as the music transitions 
 to signal the presence of an enemy.
  
  Resident Evil 4's gameplay is outstanding as well, and players who own one of the previous ports 
 (for the PC, PS2 or Gamecube) will find that Leon is easier to control than ever. One addition 
 worth note is the targeting reticle, which is mapped to the wii-mote to provide unsurpassed accuracy 
 and shot control.
  
  The 3rd person perspective is another facet of Resident Evil 4 that sets it above the rest. To 
 shoot, you must hold the B-button, which brings up your firearm and allows you to shoot with A. 
 This means that you cannot move while shooting, but while this may seem uncomfortable, it's easy 
 to get used to and soon seems like second nature. The motion-sensing capabilities of the wii-mote 
 are implemented to swing your knife, reload, and interact during cutscenes by dodging, swimming, 
 running, etc.
  
  Resident Evil 4's storyline is really what makes it a great game. At first, it seems pretty cookie-cutter: 
 You are government agent Leon S. Kennedy, sent to a remote village in northern Spain to rescue 
 the president's daughter from an unidentified terrorist group. However, soon after arriving, Leon 
 uncovers a horrific plot involving a deadly virus that threatens himself and his target, but all 
 of humanity.
  
  The story is expertly crafted, rife with plot twists and jaw-dropping surprises around every turn. 
 You'll feel like a part of the story, which makes it all the more frightening when you turn a corner 
 and come face to face with a hideous beast hell-bent on your demise.
  
  All in all, Resident Evil 4 is a powerful gaming experience. Its memorable characters and story, 
 intuitive gameplay, and sublime soundtrack combine admirably into a game you'll find yourself coming 
 back to for years to come.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brysterdude
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Let's knock this out of the way... The graphics are amazing! The gore is easily some of the best 
 ever, you'll love how realistic those pesky zombies are, and more detail than ever on those extravagant 
 levels!
  
  First, the weapons. Here's a RPG element on Resident Evil 4 - The guns cost money to buy, and cost 
 money to level up there skills (Ammo, rate of fire, fire-power, and weapon kick) . It's cool, you'll 
 like it!
  
  The voice-overs are excellent, and the game isn't to hard at all.
  
  Bonus features? Well, just the best of the best! After you beat the game, you get an additional 
 costume and the option to play on a hard mode. Then, you can view all the movies you've unlocked. 
 THEN you can play assignment Ada which portrays Ada's side of the story helping Leon and such. 
 THEN you have a excellent mini game called "The Mercenaries" Just an all out (timed) death match, 
 you vs. zombies!
  
  The story-line is great, and it's just as fun to watch as it is to play! The bosses are all very 
 extravagant and just challenging enough to keep you on your feet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatSTERLINkid
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  Like i said, its not what i expected... I expected at least a few new boss fights and features, 
 but the only new feature is the RE Umbrella Chronicles trailer. When it comes to game play, graphics, 
 and sound however, the game seems to have the "standards" of the Gamecube Version. As for what 
 it contains from the PS2, there is nothing, nothing except for the extra costumes and game types, 
 id rather not name them in case someone who hasnt even played this for the GC or the PS2, would 
 hate to spoil for future buyers, BUT this game still has some flare.... though its pretty much 
 exactly the same as the PS2 version, the motion sensitivity for the Wii-mote is very well placed 
 on the scale. The game also did a good job sorting out the action commands.
  
  Overall this game is Good, graphics are awesome, Music (well, sounds) are good, and gameplay is, 
 ok i guess, it'd be better if they made the B button shoot tho... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shaun832
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 is a horror FPS game that does things differently compared to the other Resident 
 Evil games.
  
  You play as Leon Kennedy, a survivor of the Raccoon City incident that occurred during the events 
 of Resident Evil 2 and 3. He now works for that government and is sent on a mission of find and 
 rescue the President's daughter who has been kidnapped by a mysterious cult. There's a sighting 
 of the President's daughter in an isolated village in Europe and Leon investigates. While he is 
 there the villagers start attacking him for an unknown reason so Leon has to find the President's 
 daughter and find out the secret of the village.
  
  There are no zombies this time around. I know what you're probably thinking. 'But its a Resident 
 Evil game, the only thing you do is shoot zombies'. Yes, that is true but they have been replaced 
 by something so original (/sarcasm) that it will make you think, 'Wow, why didn't I think of that.' 
 Possessed humans, fully equipped with pitchforks, axes, knifes, other whatnot that has a sharp 
 end and dynamite sticks.
  
  Gone are the absolutely horrible (and somehow awesome) 'frozen' camera angles. Instead of the camera 
 pointing at you in some awkward position, the camera is in an over-the-shoulder position which 
 is alright but it seems like its been done, which it has, many times before.
  
  Almost the entire game is an escort mission. I hate escort missions especially if they make the 
 NPC who's following you a complete idiot. Unfortunately sometimes in this game, your partner does 
 something so stupid that it makes you not want to care about her and just push her into a mob of 
 charging bloodthirsty villagers.
  
  The guns in this game range from pathetic to freaking' awesome. You start off with a handgun and, 
 if you are like me and chose the easy mode (which I'm pretty sure is Wii exclusive) , a shotgun. 
 You eventually get a sniper rifle that is hopeless in a close-up situation, a rocket launcher and 
 a few different types of grenades like the hand and flash grenade.
  
  The enemies are good and bad at the same time. The case for the game says that the enemies work 
 together but I've never seen them once perform this feat. The enemies react differently to where 
 you shoot them. Shoot them in the feet and they stumble to the ground. Shoot them in the arm and 
 they drop their weapon. Shoot them in the head and they die, sometimes.
  
  Ammo is everywhere in this game. They are in boxes, the enemies drop it but you can't buy them 
 from the salesman who looks like one of 'them' and will turn on you at any moment. When you run 
 out of ammo, you are screwed. This time you have a knife if you run out of ammo so you aren't as 
 screwed as you would be if you ran out of ammo in any other Resident Evil game.
  
  The whole game takes some advantage to the Wii's motion sensing capabilities. You aim using the 
 wiimote, slice the knife by shaking the wiimote and that's actually it but I don't blame the lack 
 of motion sensing abilities because that's really all you can do with it.
  
  In short, this is another Resident Evil game, just revamped with a whole new way to play. I highly 
 suggest buying it and keeping it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolcats1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  well to start this out resident evil 4 is the best in the series so far (i think the 5th is going 
 to beat it out.) but anyway i love the wii edition. its much easier than the gamecube and ps2 versions. 
 i think the aiming circle was needed for those people that arent good aimers with the laser dot. 
 also re4 has great graphics compared to the previous games, and i like how they put leon and ada 
 back in the series. i didnt want them to be forgetten after re2 but the game box says it all ( 
 creatures that defy nature) such as el gigante and verdugo ( claw guy) and it got very good ratings 
 from popular companys like gamespot, nintendo, and microsoft. and other reasons its amazing is 
 that its the only resident evil game so far that is a 3rd person view. the other games were just 
 annoying. but over all leon makes this game worth buying. and the good thing about the wii version 
 is they gave the same guns from the ps2 version that the gamecube game did not have. this is my 
 review.
  
  `spoilers/
  1) the prl 412 shoots at everybody 2) jack krauser is a boss
  3) chicago typewriter is 1 million dollars.
  4) and last you have to save a stupid girl named 
 ashley [ she is a headache] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: re01234crusader
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  It's been three years since we gamers have ever heard about RE4 from Capcom, and it's been worth 
 the wait. When I heard about Leon's return to the gaming world, I had already lost my interest 
 in the RE series, and I was ashamed to admit that. But when I started playing, it all came back- 
 The thought of shooting Ganados and beating boss-monster baddies. It was as though I had never 
 given it up. With the Wii, the controls were much easier to pick up and use, unlike the other consoles, 
 and with the Wii-mote, I could easily have more choices with my knife. With the knife, I became 
 quite a master with it and accomplished things I couldn't have in the Original, like saving ammo 
 for the bosses by knifing Ganados when they came up the ladder, using hand grenades in the cage 
 fight, using the Killer7 in the U-3 fight, and how handy those railings were fighting Saddler. 
 I even managed to get the Chicago Typewriter, Infinite Launcher, and the P. R. L. 412! Anyways, I'll 
 break it down.
  
  Gameplay: Brilliant, from story to controls. There couldn't be a simpler controlling system in 
 any other RE game. The story was kind of off series, but it makes sense with the fact Umbrella's 
 dead and that a new threat comes up. (10/10)
  
  Graphics: Extremely detailed! Everything seemed so lifelike. The environment also played a huge 
 part in the game, like shooting overhead lamps to burn the occasional Zealot (and Ashley ^_^) , 
 and shooting torches to get more spinals for money, or shooting that large Novistador nest in the 
 castle for eyes. Enemy AI was impressive as well! When I aim at a Ganado long enough, it will try 
 to dodge the shot by crouching or strafing. (9 1/2/10) 
  
  Sound: Good. The "enemy alarm" came from both Music and Enemy AI calls. You could hear Leon's footsteps, 
 the growing of the insane phrases the Zealots had, and the patter of rain over the shouts of the 
 Ganados. Capcom always had a song for every stage and part you played in the game, so it was very 
 impressive. (9/10)
  
  Final Word: Finally, the game makes all the difference. Over the years since 1996, Capcom brought 
 a new meaning to the genre "Survival Horror". Over the last 12 years, their games have progressed 
 farther than ever, making them look like something from the future. Capcom is truly the future 
 of gaming, and, it's good to have you back, Mr. Kennedy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TwistedMetalFan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Back in 2005, Capcom released Resident Evil 4 on the Gamecube, changing the way people saw Resident 
 Evil forever. Then months later it released on the Playstation 2, with some more content than the 
 Gamecube version had the same effect on PS2 players that it did on the Gamecube players. Then a 
 couple years later, Capcom released the very unnoticed PC version, had almost no effect on with 
 PC players. Then later in the mist of 2007, they released the Wii version. The Wii version of Resident 
 Evil 4 turns out to be one of the best versions of the game and one the best Wii games. All of 
 the content from the PS2 version is still on this Wii remake, you won't find any no content on 
 this version of the game. But what you will find is some of the tightest Wii controls on any Wii 
 game. With the bean if light being replaced with a red circle, and the aiming system is one of 
 the tightest in all of the Wii shooters. It all ways stays on the screen, if you have shaky hands 
 you don't have to worry bad aiming, its easy as came be. Just press the B button to aim. then A 
 to fire. The difficulty is easier than the other versions of the game. The Wii controls slim down 
 the difficulty down a bit. But don't worry, its mostly like it was before, hard at first, but as 
 you get used to the controls, and get better weapons the game gets easier. And the graphics are 
 slightly improved, the sad part about that is it's still one of the best looking Wii games out 
 there. If you've played it already on the other consoles, don't worry, its still worth playing 
 though the Wii version. The Wii controls make it fell like a new experience, the Wii control mini 
 games, using the knife ,and of course the aiming system, makes it feel entirely new, with still 
 as satisfying as it was before. So if you have a Wii, and your a fan of survival horror games, 
 this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alphonse405
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 12:00 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil, a series that needs no introduction. Truly, one of the most recognized on the industry. 
 Released in 2005, Resident Evil 4 was one of history's best games. Now, a port onto the Wii, this 
 games is put up to the test one more time. Does the Wii make this game better or worse?
  
  Gameplay: This game's story could not be described as less than awesome. It takes a whole new twist 
 preserving the resident evil lineage. Controls- Thousands of miles of difference between the ps2 
 and gc versions of the game. The Wii's motion sensing capabilities make a lovely addition the game's 
 long list of almost perfect build. (9/10)
  
  Graphics: Even in this age of super uber realistic graphics, this game still manages to somewhat 
 drop your jab as you wonder through/into weird Spaniard villages, giant monsters and beautiful 
 castles. (9/10)
  
  Sound: Without a doubt one of the game's most perfect moments. The voice acting is not only perfect, 
 but the little details that you hear every time you shoot or get close to the "hosts" are oh so 
 rewarding (10/10)
  
  On the end: This game is pretty much the same thing but wtih enhanced controls. You might have 
 to give it some thought if you already bought this game for the gamecube, even so , at its discounted 
 price, this game is more than able to drag back previous owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexh_99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Resident evil 4 was a great game on the last gen consoles, but on the Wii its amazing!. If you 
 have never played this game before, pick it up right now. Its only around 30$ and it takes about 
 20 hours to beat. Also it has the bonus levels afterwards (GC never had them only PS2 did) which 
 will add more play time . Even after you beat it once, you will still play again to try and unlock 
 better weapons and cool costumes. This game has alot of replayability
  
  If you already played other versions of RE4 it still might be a good buy because of all the new 
 abilities that the wii remote has to offer. Like aiming your gun, slashing your knife, and running 
 away from boulders. 
  
  if you like shooting games, and like to kill zombies then pick up RE4. It has a good soundtrack, 
 awesome graphics, spot on controls, and good camera angle. The wii edition makes it almost feel 
 like your in the game.
  
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fernan17893
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  The original Resident evil 4 can be summed up in these few words :off the chain!! Notice how I 
 inserted two exclamation marks to express the awesomeness in the game. The plot takes place in 
 a creepy setting somewhere in Spain. You are Leon S. Kennedy an agent sent to rescue the president 
 daughter from a religous cult who later you find out is filled with chaos from the powers of Las 
 Plagas. Despite the fact that there are no zombies, the game offers some tense and gripping moments, 
 the sheer intensity you feel when your health bar reaches the red state and you have only but a 
 pistool and 20 bullets while fighting 10 Ganados are one of the miost scary video game moments 
 in history. The inclusion of motion based action controls during action scenes is exiting and tense. 
 The graphics in the Wii game have some minor improvements but they were never dissaponting in the 
 first place. The game also features a slew of extras which can be played once the game is beat. The 
 game is just amzing on all departments and should be played by anyone who owns a wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXecutor195
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  Even though this game is just a remake of something that was already on other consoles, its still 
 an awesome game.
  
  First of all let me tell you what makes it awesome. I like how you can freely roam the area and 
 walk almost wherever you want to. I also liked how scary this game was especially in the part when 
 Leon got stuck in the sewers and had to run away from this scary creature and the part when you 
 get to the hospital, fall down the trash opening and land on something soft, so the presidents 
 daughter asks what it was, and Leon said: Its a dead body with spikes and strange things on it 
 and she went like ewww what is this.
  
  This game does have some comedy in it as well. The gameplay is pretty great though it isnt hard. 
 I remember beating countless bosses with a knife, only because my ammo ended (worst part of the 
 game ammo ends, you have nothing to defend youfself with, but I guess thats what makes it a survival 
 game) . Oh and theres also extra content in it as well. If you complete it in hard mode or I dont 
 remember you get very nice weapon extras, and besides that you can play the extra story of the 
 woman that Leon meets on the island which extends the amount of time you can waste on this game.
 
  
  Graphics: 9 So far so good
  Music: 10 Nothing much
  Fun: 9.5 (Dying makes it annoying when the screen with blood comes out)
  Story: 9 (Story actually 
 makes sense compared to the other RE games)
  
  Overall Score: 9 - A must buy for a horror/surival/shooter game fan.
  
  
  Reviewed by eXecutor195 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthmario123
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  Since it first released back in 2005, Resident Evil 4 has been to many consoles. It started out 
 on the Gamecube, then made its way onto the PS2, then the PC, and now it's found it's way onto 
 the Wii. Trust me, once you play this classic on the Wii, you won't want to go back. Why is this? 
 It is because of the new motion controls the Wii has blessed it with. You aim your weapon by holding 
 down B and moving the Wii Remote. You shoot by pressing A while holding down B. You can use your 
 knife by swinging the Wii remote. You move by using the control stick on the nunchuk. And you run 
 by holding down Z while moving the stick. There are even more awesome controls than I have listed 
 here. A great thing about the wii version is that it has the superior graphics of the Gamecube 
 version and it has the extra content of the PS2 version. The extra content includes the Assignment 
 Ada missions, extra costumes for the Leon story mode, a Mercinaries mode, and you can even look 
 back on cutscenes. Overall this is a game that is considered a masterpiece and should not be overlooked. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Innocent_J
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 should have you playing for a while, seeing as how the game is pretty long. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very good and appealing, seeing as it's on the wii, and the wii 
 isnt know for it's graphical ability. Nothing to complain about here.
  
  Audio: Very satisfying audio. I don't really pay too much attention to audio, but whenever the 
 music comes to mind, you'll have nothing to complain about. The music, just like the action, has 
 its highs and lows. When you're just walking, nothings really happening so there really isnt much 
 music. But when there is an evil creature around, the music lets you know, and lets you know very 
 well. Developers did an amazing job with the music. Suites the game very well.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay, to me, is near flawless. The control at first may get a little getting 
 used to, especially if you haven't played resident evil before. But once you get used to the controls, 
 you feel in control of the game.
  
  Content: Rich Content. Alot to do, buy, and sell.
  
  This game is very entertaining. I have SSBB and MK: Wii and all the other top games for the 
 wii, but when I recently got this game, I haven't been playing anything else... at all.
  
  Great game. Must Buy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirpip
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  I was somewhat skeptical of this game when I got it, but the reviews were unanimously good so I 
 gave it a shot.
  
  I was initially disappointed that the game did not allow strafing. Rounding corners is a bit nerve 
 racking when you have to expose yourself moving forward, and then turn to see what's about to eat 
 your face. The cage match had the feel of running around like a chicken with my head cut off, as 
 I was unable to see the baddie while trying to avoid being ripped to shreds. The other annoying 
 feature was that you can move or shoot, but not both at once. A number of times at the start of 
 playing the game I would backup from the not-zombies and end up staring at the sky when I switched 
 to shooting mode. That said, I learned to get around with out these features, and still very much 
 enjoyed the game.
  
  RE4 has a fairly good story going for it, moving slightly away from the original zombie theme while 
 keeping the same feel. I enjoyed most of the puzzle games and missions, and the mosters where a 
 constant challenge, ramping up in difficulty at a good match to my improving skill at the game. 
 Playing through the first time, especially on PRO level, is very difficult, but doable. the replay 
 value of the game is also quite high, with some new weaponry opening up and a variety of goals 
 you can set yourself each time, like finding every special treasure or getting each bottle cap 
 in the mini-games. Small things like the changes to costume (Special 2 is interesting) and the 
 Ada point-of-view games keep things from being stale.
  
  Each of the boss creatures is progressively harder (except the final boss, who I thought was a 
 bit wimpy) , and each usually requires a different tactic to defeat. Yes, sometimes the best tactic 
 was to stand still and shoot. Sometimes you run around in a panic, trying just about every weapon 
 until the thing falls dead, and wonder that you're still alive.
  
  I don't like dogs...........
  
  I very much enjoyed this game, although the super laser weapon 
 you can get after defeating the PRO version kinda turned me off the game as a whole for now, since 
 it lost much of the challange of the game. I fully expect to go back eventually and play again. 
 Until then, I'll probably coach my daughter through playing the game, after one too many demands 
 that I play it again so she can watch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigguy7786
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  I just beat Resident Evil 4 for the Wii as a 'time filler' game. and I found myself playing it 
 long into the night and day, and night again. The 'almost' perfect game that smashed on the Gamecube 
 is now just as or even better on the Wii. The control dynamics are, I feel, just fun. The Wiimote 
 makes shooting and aiming WAAY easier, which i can see why some people see it as less of a 'challenge' 
 but whatever, I play for fun. I love the added content from the PS2 and PC versions and it just 
 adds to the hours of fun. I had absolutely no problems with the game whatsoever. Other than reaching 
 the 1,000,000 pesetas for the unlimited rocket launcher. I loved the added power to the upgraded 
 weapons, the difficulty was perfect for a horror/shooter/survivor game. BUY THIS GAME you wont 
 regret it, unless your a zombie... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chinoasian
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 29, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  It is an action horror thriller with clean and sharp cinematic. You start off with just a handgun 
 in European villager's turfs. Your goal is to survive and take back the prisoner in the hands of 
 Lord Saddler the leader of the Ganado's. The villagers were formerly peaceful until something has 
 taken over them with parasites. It does not matter if their zombies or not because they are just 
 infested human beings. You fight bosses just like the previous games only thing is the action are 
 completely different besides just run and shoot now you can flick your wrist with the wii-mote 
 to perform certain action like kicking or dodging. It is excellent on the wii and way better then 
 the gamecube but the same as the playstation 2 version of this game as well as the pc version. 
 It is the same as the PS2 and PC with the same extras which the gamecube version sadly doesn't 
 have. The gamecube is the most inferior version out there lacking the extras and contents that 
 the pc, ps2, and wii doesn't have. Wii is the most superior version out there which implements 
 the control of the wiimote and nunchuck which are the most superior control.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamirElrasoul
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  This is actually one of the best games to get for the wii. The graphics are actually good which 
 is rare and made me very happy. For an resident evil fan this is something to pick up. The way 
 you get to use the controller makes it fun. It was a bit difficult to get use to but once you master 
 it, the game is just 10x more fun. The story line was the same but it doesn't matter because the 
 way you get to play the game makes it fun. The sound was great and the cut scenes were very well 
 done. The game play as usually for these games was awesome and keeps you on your feet. The storyline 
 was fantastic and you really get into it and want to find out what is next to come. After you beat 
 the game you get some cool mini games that even after you have beaten it you will want to go and 
 play these mini games because they are just some more fun. Also you will get a rocket launcher 
 with unlimited ammo and going around blowing everyone away was just an extra fun factor. The wii 
 has the potential for great games like this but I am just waiting to see. I recommend that if you 
 have a wii pick up this game and if you don't have a wii find this game and pick it up, you will 
 not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vigoureuxEVIL5
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  Action packed game which Sucks you in and fits with the wii perfectly, if your looking for a wii 
 shooter, get this classic game.
  It takes a while to complete the first time and once finished you will want another go or two.
 
  aswell as this there are lots of other modes and things to do that arent in other versions. so 
 you might wa\nt to get this even if you have the Gamecube/PS2 version.
  However, if you plan to get this because you want to wet yourself scared, be prepared for mediocre 
 shocks and surprises, and the minigames, however fun, arent very deep. with mercenaries only 4 maps 
 and 4 characters you might get bored after an hour or two.
  the wii remote is put to great use in this as you point shoot and reload with the remote and move 
 with the nunchuck, much like other shooting wii games, but it works alot better.
  Overall gameplay, sound and fun are great, the graphics have started to age alot, but dont get me 
 wrong its a must have for wii owners, my favourite for the console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moon015
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Over the years there have been many resident evil games on a variety of consoles but this one defined 
 them all with its new gameplay and story which is nothing short of innovative, whilst still sticking 
 to the resident evil storyline.
  This game is a high suspense thrill ride all the way through and after finishing it you will want 
 to play it again and again.
  The game is riddled with action sequences ranging from simply shaking an enemy off to avoiding 
 a pit full of spikes in the nick of time so that you cant even let the guard down while the cut 
 scenes are on.
  The wii version over all of them is by far the definitive with the game being perfectly intergrated 
 to the wiis revolutionary control system to make shooting more accurate and the gameplay more immersing 
 coupled with the wii remote speaker occasionally giving sound effects.
  The wii version also includes every special feature that the playstation2 version had including 
 the side mission, seperate ways that sees you playing as the stylish spy Ada Wong in a game that 
 lasts around 2 hours and is perfectly fitted within the main game.
  
  The game can be called nothing but perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atom1cPunk
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  Resident evil 4 is an overall great game. My friend turned me on to this game and so i bought it. 
 Even though i have played the gamecube version i just though the wii edition is a way more interactive 
 expierence then the gamecube version. The gameplay is amazing and the graphics are very good. The 
 boss battles are very interactive like el lago (which is one of my favorites) . Some suggestions 
 i can make for this game is that the typewriters annoy me very much. There is either too many or 
 far less. Besides that this game is excellent brilliant and a must have for any fan of the resident 
 evil series, a Nintendo wii owner, Or just a fan of the action, adventure, horror genre. This games 
 difficulty is just right because of easy parts and hard parts not just all and easy and not just 
 all hard thats what makes a game just right on my standards. I highly recommended this game to 
 many Nintendo wii owners even if you don't like horror games this game will turn you on to the 
 genre and the resident evil series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henry2525
Rating: 10
Date: May 22, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  This review is based upon "professional mode" 
  
  So it should do wonders for "normal mode" XP
  
  The aiming with the WII remote is somewhat 
 easy, but conserving ammunition becomes hard when one head shot isn't enough to kill one ghoul 
 in a growing mass of enemy ghouls running towards the sound of that one gun shot that hit the ghoul 
 but failed to destroy the foe completely.
  
  Not to mention, how the tension raises when a mob of ghouls has you cornered and your only option 
 is a spray tactic, you will lose ammunition fast, so don't just sell your grenades use them wisely.
 
  
  I every time I fight "IT" I always end up depleting all my ammunition for every gun at my disposal 
 even the sniper rifle, until that last shot that I like to call the MAGIC SHOT! I fired my last 
 sniper round into my foe and killed it.
  
  If Z day ever comes, I hope I have enough ammunition and grenades!
  
  XD
  
  So use those 
 grenades!
  
  This concludes my review by henry2525 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolf-avatar
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 22, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Hey this is Wolf-Avatar agian and heres meh review of Resident Evil 4, Anyway its a great game. Good 
 guns great extras, Awesome story except Iv beat it about 5 times already and its boring now. The 
 extras are good but there boring now. Anyway back to the game. The Story gets you on the game quick, There 
 are lots of good weapons you can use in the game thats pretty awesome, Including in the mercinaries 
 when you get to play as dif characters like wesker and some other dudes that have dif weapons like 
 the crossbow, Relly cool weapon. The boses are the most unfun part of the game. There just the same 
 thing over and over, The fun starts when you get to the second island cause thats when it gets harder 
 and funner. The wii version I think is the best one of them all, The ps2 has bad graphics (Spelling.. I 
 think  _ ,Anyway I recommend this game but proberly just for a while. So Resident evil away!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulletwaster
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  There aren't very many first person shooters on the Wii but I am sure glad this one is. This is 
 one of the best shooters I have ever played. It is even as good as Gears of War, Call of Duty 4, 
 and even Halo 3. The story is well told through cinematics in the game which use the same graphics 
 as the actual game. The graphics in this game are very impressive for a Wii game.
  The game starts you as Leon S. Kennedy who appeared in previous Resident Evils. Leon's mission 
 is to find and retrieve the presidents daughter, Ashley Graham, who as been captured by an unknown 
 organization in Europe ( I think it's Spain, but the game doesn't actually specify the location. 
 the game makes good use of motion sensitivity, but doesn't over do it. You can choose to play with 
 a classic controller although I haven't used it. The game seems to go on it's own separate story 
 seeing as the zombies aren't infected by the T-virus rather something I will leave you to figure 
 out. When you start the game there isn't much to see other than the campaign which you can only 
 play on Normal. Once you beat the game however, there is the option to play it again on normal 
 or professional and start out with the same equipment you had when you finished the game the first 
 time. There is also a minigame called assignment ada (which I don't know what it is since I never 
 played it) , Seperate Ways (which is 5 bonus chapters that you play as Ada Wong in) , A movie browser, 
 and A mini-game called The Mercenaries. In the Mercenaries you try to kill as many Zombies as you 
 can before time runs out. By earning a certain amount of points you unlock new characters to use 
 in The Mercenaries. When you beat the main game you also unlock other bonuses which I will let 
 you discover. Overall the game is very enjoyable and only 30 dollars which makes this an amazing 
 deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryBomber5
Rating: 10
Date: May 14, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this game, I got it february 2005 for the nintendo gamecube. I only bought 
 it because I saw the review, which was a 9.6/10. Which I thought was a must buy game!
  
  I played it, and wow. I couldn't stop playing, this game sucks you into the game.
  
  Now I 
 bought it for the wii and it's still awesome! I'm not gonna rate it bad just because there isn't 
 any extra wii specific content. The games still perfect!
  
  Gameplay 10/10 - The gameplay on this game is perfect, esspessially for the wii. You aim with the 
 wii remote, and the aim-target is bigger then RE4 for the GC. Thats a good thing, because if they 
 didn't change it, it would be a lot harder to aim. The game's controls are basically the same as 
 nintendo gamecube. The game is still very challenging, and you will never get tired of this game. 
 You will always feel like playing it because theres always a brand new level to encounter! Sometimes 
 you will go back to places, but your always going to be surprised because you will always see different 
 levels and ect. 
  
  Sound 10/10 - The sound is just perfect in every way. Since this is a scary (M) rated game, you 
 WILL hear creepy music! It flows very well with the game, and it's just amazing. Also, theres voice 
 acting which is spectacular also!
  
  Graphics 9.8/10 - Now it's 2008 and the graphics aren't really impressing, but back in 2005, this 
 game definitely had some of the best graphics. The graphics are still near perfection, and there 
 really good. I remember when I use to take my rifle, and zoom into there faces, just to see how 
 detailed and realistic they looked! The graphics are just amazing...
  
  Overall 10/10 - This is a perfect game, I don't really think there is anything wrong with this 
 game. After you beat it theres a new story "separate ways" and it's new to the wii. Also theres 
 mercenaries and assignment ada. Theres also new costumes and lots of expensive guns that are awesome, 
 my favorite is the chicago typewriter!
  
  It's a must have game, for any console... it's just amazing, and it will probably be the best shooter 
 game you ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opossumtrot
Rating: 9
Date: May 13, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  This was the first title I bought for my Wii. I was predisposed to love this game because I am 
 a fan of the resident evil storyline (even though this is a divergent thread) . Meaning.. this is 
 a biased review :)
  
  Pointing at and shooting slow-moving, infected farmers is surprisingly fun (surprising 'cause its 
 still fun 6 months later) . Quickly, the game gets much more challenging than that and your accuracy 
 and other stats are recorded making it fun to challenge yourself. Some of the boss events and cutscenes 
 are ridiculously entertaining and well done. Character development is minimal but you are able 
 to upgrade your weapons quite a bit and there are plenty of unlockables to keep you busy even after 
 your first go through. The mini-games are also a blast, and without giving to much away, I will 
 just say that they alone kept me playing for like 20 hours after I'd beaten the regular mode. Resident 
 Evil 4 is also one of those games that is good for playing in the dark, if you're into that :) 
 Go get the girl! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jesteroflies
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  One of the first games i purchase for the wii, and by far my most prized game. The game opens up 
 with the player asking himself/herself what is going on and why. You play Leon, a very familiar 
 face to many, who is searching for the presidents daughther who has gone missing. Reports state 
 that she has been seen in europe. You must find her and bring her home, under the direct order 
 of the president himself. The game from the get go grasps you by the throat and wont let go until 
 the very end. You start with your trusty gun and your wits. As you progress through the game you 
 can purchase new weps and even upgrades for your weps. The gameplay via wiimote and nunchuck is 
 flawless. While you can use the classic controller and the gamecube controller. Each possess its 
 own unqiueness, but i by far enjoy the wiimote and nunchuck. The story is perfect in every way, 
 keeping you guessing as to what is going on in this village out in the middle of nowhere. Graphics 
 for being a port are excellent and the voice acting is flawless. Your heart pounds as you unload 
 a clip into a chainsaw wielding manic, hopeing he will fall before you have to reload. Your palms 
 sweet and you hold your breath. Its not the end if you run out of pistol ammo, you can always use 
 your hunting knife to slice and dice them. Overall this game was a great experience for me and 
 i find myself going back for more now and then. Alot of extra content can keep you busy for hours 
 to weeks. I give this a flawless 10
  
  Jester 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CPT_0bvious
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 11, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4: Wii edition is easily one of the best wii games on the market, and my personal 
 favorite game. You play as Leon Kennedy, on a mission in Spain to rescue the President's daughter 
 from a mysterious cult. You soon find out that something is very wrong, when an ancient species 
 of parasite called the Las Plagas is infecting the locals. I won't spoil anything else for you, 
 but the plot sucks you in, and hooks you. I have beaten this game so many times, i have easily 
 put in over 100 hours into this game. 
  This game also has an RPG element to it. Each gun you have deals a certain amount of damage, and 
 you can level it up buy buying upgrades from a merchant who apparently likes hanging around zombie-infested 
 areas...
  Although it is flawed (no multiplayer, once you level up all your weapons, the game starts to seem 
 unfair) I would recommend this to anybody looking for a survival action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reo-117
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  this game comes once in a lifetime and it is nearly perfect in every way
  
  you start of as leon s. kennedy a goverment agent who is sent on a mysterious island to look for 
 the presidents daughter but then you relize that all the villagers are zombies and thats how the 
 story begins
  
  graphics:
  10/10 
  
  one of the best looking wii games 
  
  sound
  10/10
  they put the music at the perfect time and it sounds very creepy
  
  controls
 
  9/10
  very slick controls after a couple of minutes you will never look at your controler the only problem 
 is you cant run and shoot at the same time
  
  gameplay:
  10/10
  no battle is ever the same and it never gets old 
  
  pro: long, good characters, awsome action, the 
 zombies (well more like possed people) are acually smart, great controls, creepy music
  
  cons:
  cant run and shoot at the same time
  so if you like video games then by this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcleism01
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2008 3:40 am PT
Review:  Resident evil four has not dissapointed in it's transition to the nintendo wii. Although it doesn't 
 have much specific wii content it still is a brilliant game.
  You play as American agent Leon Kennedy who is trying to find the presidents kidnapped daughter. 
 With some brilliant graphics, a great storyline, and a very good soundtrack it is possibly one 
 of the greatest resident evil games ever made. It has some easy to pick up, simple controls and 
 some other games when you have completed the main story which helps you find out the secret behind 
 the game. On top of all that it's not just a shooting game, there some tricky puzzles and mysteries 
 to solve along the way. However if you get scared very easily don't by this game or you will be 
 hiding behind the sofa. In conclusion resident evil four is a brilliant game with simple controls 
 that I would reccomend to anyone who likes shooter or mystery games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vertiglug
Rating: 9
Date: May 1, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  I personally love this game. I think the wii works very well with it and who doesn't love killing 
 zombies. Althou in this game thier is no zombies, more like infected russians. The game starts 
 you in a village and from there you have to find ashley and rescue her, then pretty much escape 
 from the islane. The game play ranges from very easy to somewhat hard. They have a great arsnel 
 of weapons and great array of bosses. The only real bad part of this game is, from the viewpoint 
 of people who owned it on gamecube or played it on ps2, it can seem pretty old and there is nothing 
 that you get from just the wii. Althou it is called, resident evil 4, Wii addition, might as well 
 of been called, Resident Evil 4- Transfered from the Gamecube Edition. All in all, this has been 
 one of my favorite games the wii have brought out onto the market and I look forward to more games 
 like this in the future 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthTowhead
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game a week ago, and it is one of the greatest single-player experiences I have ever 
 had. The story is great, but once in a while the team AI is a little annoying (i. e. stepping in 
 traps that u walk a long way around, or needing to be caught rather than climbing down the ladder.) 
 The aiming with the wiimote is amazing. Usually you only get that with rail-shooters. All the controls 
 are excellent and flow nicely. The blood-thirsty is AMAZING. With head shots the zombie's heads 
 explode, and you can kick or elbow their heads off. The boss fights are absolutely epic. All of 
 them are fun and challenging. There are some great weapons and side missions. Throughout the game 
 there are many fun puzzles, and some absolutely great battles against many lots of enemies at a 
 time. I would highly recommend this game to all wii owners who are allowed to get M rated games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chewjacka206
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2008 1:14 am PT
Review:  Lets start off with the story: yeah, yeah, Leon S. Kennedy is off embarkig on a secret mission 
 to find the presidents daughter.... Great story!
  
  The gameplay: just right and very entertaining!
  
  The graphics: excerlent, good blood in the 
 face!
  
  In the game you get some cool guns from the weapons dealer! Buy the tmp, don't sell the shotgun, 
 sell the handgun! Keep the punisher!
  
  I am making up for words... i am making up for words... i am making up for words... i am making 
 up for words ... i am making up for words: amazing: must buy!
  
  Overall: 10/10
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamedude404
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Resident evil 4 for the Wii is definitly one of the greatest horror games ever to come out in awhile. 
 If you like juicy, scary, mysterious, suspenseful video games. This is a must have! The Wii remote 
 adds to the fun with its motion censors and shaking your remote when rocks come towards you. It 
 fits in with the game. The story may sound a bit original but is very suspenseful and breathtaking. 
 It's the type of game where want to keep playing 3 hours straight just to see what happens. It 
 really sucks you in. The main character is leon and he is trying to save the president's daughter 
 from a mysterious horrific organization. The boss fights are awesome because they are not to hard 
 nor easy. The sound is very good except for the constant one liners by the villagers. They get 
 annoying after awhile. The visuals are pretty artistic and wouldve been GREAT if this game came 
 out 3 years ago but its acceptable now. The gameplay is pretty damn fun and shooting possessed 
 villagers never get old. In all Resident Evil 4 is a great horror game full of suspense and should 
 not be missed!
  
  Pros: Great horrific and suspenseful storyline. Sound is pretty nice. Wii remote matches nicely 
 with game play. Great boss fights and characters. Sucks you in
  
  Cons: Graphics could've improved (just a tiny bit) . Villager dialogue gets too repetitive (not 
 like it would matter) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScionofEntropy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 9:03 pm PT
Review:  With its release on the GameCube in 2005, Resident Evil was an instant hit. Within just over two 
 weeks, the game sold over 300,000 copies and was subject to highly positive reactions from fans 
 and critics alike. To date, the game has sold roughly 4 million units on the four platforms its 
 been released. Not long ago, Capcom and Nintendo ported the game to the Wii, resulting in what 
 is arguably the best version.
  
  For those new to Resident Evil 4, the story follows Leon Kennedy of Resident Evil 2 on his latest 
 outing-in Spain. The former Raccoon City cop is now a government agent on a mission to retrieve 
 Ashley Graham, the daughter of the United States' president. Shortly after his arrival, things 
 take a turn for the worse and Leon finds himself stranded amidst a chaotic region in remote Spain 
 controlled by a group known as Los Illuminados, who use humans infected with parasitic organisms 
 called Las Plagas to do their dirty work. Over the course of what seems to be just a couple nights, 
 Leon and Ashley encounter the many horrors produced through experimentation with Las Plagas. The 
 thing I really liked about this game was that it actually feels like you're playing out an action 
 movie at times, and others you feel like you're in the latest psychological thriller. This adds 
 a whole new feeling of depth to the experience, rather than take away from it; you can really tell 
 when playing RE4 that a lot of effort went into making this game so atmospheric, tense, and sometimes 
 terrifying.
  
  As is to be expected, RE4's gameplay is outstanding on the Wii. The knife controls and actions 
 like turning cranks or running in cutscenes are now dependent upon gestures, and the aiming system 
 is controlled with the Wii Remote. The only issue I had with the control setup was the minor detail 
 of not being able to change the fire button from A to the B trigger, but this is negligible with 
 how brilliantly the controls work on the Wii. Admittedly, playing with the Wiimote can be somewhat 
 disorienting at first, but once you've grown used to them, it'll all be second nature. Even so, 
 the game allows the use of the Wii Classic Controller as well, for those interested in a more traditional 
 feel. Still, one of the things that really sets this edition apart from the others is how well 
 the motion controls work with it, so those who opt not to use the remote/nunchuk setup are missing 
 out.
  
  Another excellent thing is the fact that, if you missed out on the added content that PS2 owners 
 got when RE4 was re-released, it's all been added onto Wii Edition as an added treat. And what's 
 more, the graphical quality hasn't suffered in the least from the transition. Cutscenes are once 
 again in realtime 3D, rather than run as movie files. Though, one minor detail regarding the cutscenes 
 is a lack of too many different buttons or gestures involved in the timed action sequences. It 
 doesn't take away too much from the experience, but it does feel like they removed a little bit 
 from the effect it had in the GameCube version.
  
  The combat has also had some minor tweaks, the most immediately noticeable being aiming, both through 
 Wiimote functionality and through the new aiming reticle rather than the red beam. Some were put 
 off by the removal of the red pointer, but I personally found it to improve the ability to aim, 
 albeit only marginally. Apart from these changes, though, the combat is by and large the same product. 
 Enemies are still reactive dependent upon where you shoot them-shots to the foot make them stumble 
 or yelp in pain as they're hit, and shots to the head either kill them instantly or stun them long 
 enough for Leon to perform an action like a kick or a body throw. And the boss fights, of course, 
 are varied, intense, and challenging as ever.
  
  And of course, what would Resident Evil 4 be without the unlockable content? There's been nothing 
 added in terms of bonus content, unless you've never played the PlayStation 2 console version, 
 in which case Assignment Ada has been improved by way of adding the knife function, Separate Ways 
 is now a mode of play (in which you play a side story as Ada Wong and find out just how involved 
 in the story she really was-there are some really inventive methods that they explained the puzzles 
 here, and a couple areas that are entirely new) . There are tons of unlockable weapons, and while 
 some are totally useless, there are also powerhouse weapons like the ever-popular Hand Cannon and 
 Chicago Typewriter, and the PRL, which is only obtainable through beating the extremely difficult 
 Professional Mode.
  
  There is no multiplayer functionality in RE4, as is probably to be expected, but there is the challenging 
 Mercenaries Mode, in which you must complete given objectives within an alotted time frame to obtain 
 higher ratings. With higher ratings, you unlock new characters to play as and new missions. Characters 
 include Leon Kennedy, Ada Wong, HUNK, Jack Krauser, whose Plagas arm is available as a powerful 
 finishing move; and even the notorious Albert Wesker, who has a powerful finishing technique of 
 his own. Getting a five star rating on all five missions with each of the five characters gains 
 you the aforementioned Hand Cannon, which isn't initially all that great until you unlock its Exclusive 
 effect. Needless to say, there's a lot of reason to keep coming back to RE4.
  
  Resident Evil 4 still looks great, graphically. Characters are very well modeled in movie scenes 
 and out of them with great attention to details on the characters, like facial hair, blemishes, 
 wrinkles, and even cuts and scratches. When in motion, characters look smooth and fluid, just as 
 they should and movements are never jerky or sloppily done in that almost every little thing moves 
 or happens exactly as one would expect.
  
  When hit, enemies respond immediately with a jerk or spasm, or even being violently torn apart 
 in explosions. Gore in video games has been an issue for some time, but Resident Evil 4 just does 
 it marvelously, from the first time you're decapitated by Salvador to blowing Bitores in half during 
 the boss battle. If you shoot an enemy in the head with a powerful enough weapon, or just hit them 
 with a lucky shot, chances are their head will explode in a shower of bone and gore, and it's just 
 so satisfying to watch that many will find themselves hoping to see it happen again.
  
  As stated earlier, the movie sequences are once again in full 3D, rather than the watered-down 
 sequences used on the PS2 due to functionality issues. Another nice treat is that instead of showing 
 characters in their normal outfits if you've chosen the first costumes unlocked by completing the 
 main story mode, they'll actually be shown in the movie scenes, whereas before Leon and Ashley 
 were always shown in their regular outfits. Unfortunately, it doesn't work the same way with their 
 second unlockable costumes (Leon's mobster outfit and Ashley's suit of armor) . This isn't much 
 of a problem at all, but it would have been nice to see it added in since they bothered to put 
 in the others. Another minor issue is with the absence of improved textures; with the increased 
 hardware power, it was actually a bit surprising to see the same textures from the previous releases 
 rather than slightly improved ones for a higher-specced console.
  
  Now, on to the sound, another area in which Resident Evil 4 really stands out. The sound effects 
 themselves are great; gunshots, explosions, roars and barks, doors closing and windows breaking, 
 and machinery working all sound so realistic that you'd probably think you were actually hearing 
 them if you were playing the game in full surround sound. In terms of the acting, even though the 
 dialogue is about as cheesy as it is in any Resident Evil game-you get some great lines like, "No 
 thanks, bro!" and "MIIIIIIIKE!"-the voice acting in this one stands out above the rest and sounds 
 quite good. 
  
  The musical score, which was commended by several magazines and sites as having the best original 
 score of X year, is fantastic. It's difficult to adequately describe how effective and atmospheric 
 the soundtrack is in the context of the game, but every track gives the sense that it just belongs 
 exactly where it is. It all sounds like it would fit so well in a high-budget Hollywood film, which 
 is, again, something that you kind of feel like you're playing at times.
  
  The bottom line is that if you've somehow managed to miss out Resident Evil 4 entirely, perhaps 
 by living in a cave since early 2005 or by just not bothering to pick it up at all, you may be 
 doing yourself a disservice in not picking up what will surely be recognized as one of the greatest 
 games of the previous generation. Whether you're a Wii owner who missed it completely or a veteran 
 player looking for a refreshing take on an excellent title, Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition is the 
 game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dotXtreme
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 1:13 am PT
Review:  Alright i know this is a bit late but hey I love the game and the guy on the cover is my hero. 
 OKays first of all let me start by saying if you dont have Resident Evil 4 then i really dont blame 
 you since its predecessors were only meant for a certain fan base buy now GO OUT AND GET IT IF 
 YOU LIKE ANYTHING THAT MAKES GAMES GOOD! Thats right RE 4 is completely new and its a bit obvious 
 that its a good game since it was remade 3 times (disregarding the PC version which will be shunned 
 for now) but i recommend you get it for the Wii since you will get the most outta the game with 
 ur trusty Wii remote. Ok this review might be a little short since RE 4 is a great game and i about 
 to fall asleep without realizing it so anyway lets try this the old fashioned way.
  
  Graphics: Just right for the game which means its freaking Spectacular
  OK guys as u may have 
 noticed RE 4 is not on one of those next gen consoles like the Xbox 360 and PS3 but keep in mind 
 that this is a import to the Wii so its not a new game just a new experience sorta. So the graphics 
 may be a little out dated but hey I've seen some next gen titles do way worse than RE 4 and if 
 you rate RE 4 among all the Wii games than dare i say its the probably the best tho Im still at 
 a stand still between this and Super Smash Bro BRAWL!! Ahem but graphics arent really anything 
 and to RE 4 it only counts for only so much (it counts but only so much whatever the hell that 
 means but watever) What im trying to say is RE 4 isnt a "hey look at me sparkle" game though it 
 wouldnt fail at that but its the overall experience that makes this game worth everything. Ok lets 
 hit some characters first of being LEON!!! your everyday secret service (use to be zombie killing 
 cop) parasitic Spaniards killing, (I'm not calling Spaniards parasites just the ones that are infects) 
 grotesque mutant slaying, smooth talking, and all around nice guy. Leon is probably the most generic 
 hero of your usual action flick (that involves a hot chick heroine) with a little more badass-ness. 
 Leon is one lady killer with that slick emo hair of his that works for him unlike other posers, 
 (u know who u r and i hope you die) and his freaking physique (i would kill Leon for it) and his 
 every girl's dream face (i would kill Leon for having it) . Basically Leon is that ideal man for 
 both men and women but hes not real so o well. Not lets go to Ada, Ada Wong that is (hey shes chinese) . 
 Alright now since we can see her face more clearly than the old RE 2 for the PS she looks pretty 
 damn saucy. Ada or, as Krauser likes to call, the b*tch in the red dress feature match her deceiving 
 nature. Though i must say her body is refined, she is probably the ideal women for women and some 
 men (not me i mean shes sexy and all but doesnt really meet my taste) Ada is just ur typical sexy 
 secret agent without an alibi. Ok now lets move on to one more, Krauseeerrrrrr!! or Hitler's right 
 hand man, no hes not a NAZI but if he was i wouldnt be too surprised (classic american hero pwning 
 NAZI scum would have generic so i guess he could be Russian? idk Stalins right hand man would suit 
 him too) All im saying is Krauser is "that guy" yep hes that Nazi communist guy that burns that 
 American flag RIGHT IN YOUR FACE, no he doesnt instead he injects himself with the virus only to 
 turn into a monster right in ur face (oops i guess that counts as a spoiler o well u should have 
 seen it coming unless ur that stupid and in that case dont use the internet) Well Krauser is ur 
 typical anti American villain waiting to slice up Leon god like body (actually Krauser is not anti 
 American he was actually training with Leon to become a Secret service agent o shnap was that another 
 spoiler o well no use in crying over spilled banana milk and im too lazy to go back and edit it 
 out so stop being a b*tch about it) All in all Graphics of this game add to the theme and experience 
 (obviously) and its so well done that it makes u want to put the Wii mote down and just stare at 
 it all day, not really but hey its good enough to say that it doesnt suck
  
  Sound: Great
  Ok first of all i dont give two turds about sound unless its really horrible and 
 makes me wanna throw a squirrel at the TV (i dont like squirrels) but for RE 4 sound was phenomenal. 
 Everything sounded really real. The only time when i thought Why the hell is that making that noise 
 something would just pop out and CHAINSAW MY HEAD OFF OMG or PUKE ACID UNTIL MY FACE MELTS. That 
 right peoples death visual goes the distance probably should have noted that in the graphics department 
 but eh wth u should read my whole reviews anyway unless ur a turd face jerk. Anyway so yea sounds 
 cool and creepy and the Spaniards speak spanish and Leon speaks and AMerican and Ada speaks chinese 
 (actually she doesnt well at least not in the game not sure if she speaks chinese, i'm not even 
 sure if chinese is the proper way to refer it... o well idc u no what im saying) So SOUND is cool 
 and fits in perfectly
  
  GameuPurei (Gameplay, i think Japanese people will hate me from now on) : Lovely And Hot
  
  
 Yea its Hot like volcano lava mixed with cooked bacon fat hot. If you have played the previous 
 games then u now of the moving around a scenario and aim and hope to hit but in this it is over 
 the shoulder. At first its annoying so you have to adjust at first but later on ull be shooting 
 those creeps in the face... and then kick them to prove your point (LEONS COMING WITH A VENGEANCE) 
 So yea gameplay adds to its free movement and awesomeness. Now there will be some of you that dont 
 like this new system and say its less scary because of the camera view. Ok lets get this straight 
 those people are assh*les and need to get a personality, second of all, this game could have been 
 a hell of a lot scarier if Capcom's main focus was to make me sh*t my pants. Personally i believe 
 those scenario type settings have reached their scariness peak and cant seem to get any scarier 
 than they already are but with this new system who knows but lets try to paint a picture. Picture 
 this ur walking down a hall and its pretty narrow and since u love these horror games u got a little 
 bit of claustrophobia but anyway u notice there is this rizzing motor sound and ur like wth is 
 that and u notice a door so hey maybe someone wants to give me a moped right? Coolies lets g-HOLY 
 F*CK HES GOT A CHAIN SAW!!! and u onli got ur pistol and hes pretty freaking close so you try to 
 peg with him a few bullets cause ur scared sh*tless to whip out you're handidandy shot gun and 
 oh ur headless Leon boohoo... now change you're briefs. So yea a-holes camera angling doesn't mean 
 sh*t when u cant anticipate what going to happen to you i would know since i always went to a game 
 guide to play fatal frame (I'd like to NOT shorten my life span or increase my heart rate) Anyhow 
 RE 4 is pumped with gun pumping action and a heart pumping experience (heh i just used to word 
 pump like 3 times I'm such a turd) and i you finish some of the games requirements u get pimping 
 Leon and who doesn't want pimping Leon (losers and feminists that cant SHUT THE F*CK UP THATS RIGHT 
 U KNOW WHO U R) but dudes gameplay equals big win for this little sexy Wii game and hey RE 4 is 
 probably the best action game you'll get for the Wii, all the other good games are probably just 
 good adventures. And with the WIi Remote you better make sure your not high on caffeine or the 
 suns beaming on your Remote (makes Leon looks like hes got Parkinson Im not trying to be funny 
 but its true and if you laughed then u should high five yourself and pretend i was there)
  
  Conclusion: GET IT IF YOU HAVENT PLAYED IT for any console but preferably the Wii though i 
 must say some censorship got its hands on that version and the PS2 has more of the original content 
 but ur second play through the Wii version should reveal all that was covered (lady getting impaled 
 in the face was really "OMG thats so cool" and Leon makes a funny somewhat controversial joke ahhh 
 Leon if we could have a conservation you'd probably break my neck) O and now i will spoil the ending 
 the bad guy dies hahahah now enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: humantnt
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2008 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 Has Been One Of Those Games Where I Just Cant Put The Wiimote Down, At First I 
 Wasnt Sure If I Should Buy It, So I Did Anyway, And Now Im Glad I Went With My Instincts, It Is 
 Now One Of My favorite Games I Have Ever Played
  
  Re4 Is A Well Made Game With Plenty Of Things Too Do,
  Once U Finish The Single Player Mode Once 
 Which Will Take About 14 Hours For Ur First Go As A Guess.
  
  U Then Unlock All These New And Cool Extra's
  Like Mercernaries, Assignment Ada, Seperate Ways, Movie 
 Browser And Ada's Report But If You Havent Played Re4 I Dont Want To Ruin Anything For You.
  
  U Never Seem To Get Enough Of The Game And You Just Repeat Playing The Storyline Again And 
 Again It Becomes Addictive For Me, Once U Have Beaten Normal And Easy, A New Difficulty Comes, Professional 
 This Mode Is Much Harder But All More Challenging And All More Fun.
  
  There Is Plenty Of Boss Battles, Epic Cutscenes, Many Different Enemy's And So Much More, Not Too 
 Many Games I Think Are Worthy For Me To Review But This Has Been One Of Those Amazing Games Too 
 Me And Most People Will Agree.
  
  There Are Many Different Versions But The Wii Edition Would Be My Favourite Because It Gives Me 
 A More Realistic Feel Of The Game.
  
  Its A Hard Game But Once U Get The Hang Of It You Die Less And Also Learn Not To Waste Ur Bullets... Its 
 Definitly Not A Blind Fire Sortive Game... U Dont Get That Many Bullets :D , Its More For The Accurate 
 Shooter Types Of People 
  
  Buy It u Will Never Regret It
  
  Re4 FTW!!!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenny789
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 Wii Edition is basically the same Resident Evil that was on the Gamecube and Playstation 
 2 last gen but this version takes the graphics of the GC and the extras of the PS2 to make this 
 the best version of the game. The gameplay is absolutely fantastic. The controls are very good 
 though it makes the game a little easier. It also takes a little getting used to at first but once 
 you get used to it, you'll realize that it fits the game very well.
  
  Not much has been improved on the graphics aside from widescreen support but that doesn't mean 
 the graphics are bad at all. The graphics are still good for a Wii game and with widescreen support, 
 it should look a little better than the Gamecube version. Cutscenes look good and the game overall 
 looks alright.
  
  The sound is pretty good as well. At times, the music in the game will have the "creepiness" to 
 make you feel scared and I must admit, it does a good job at it. I've had times where I was a bit 
 worried about going forward because the music and the environment looked creepy. The enemies sound 
 great, some enemies will utter words when they spot you which will alert their nearby friends and 
 other enemies will utter creepy phrases over and over again. All in ll, I think the sound in the 
 game is great.
  
  If you haven't played Resident Evil 4 before then this game is a definite "must-own" but if you're 
 a Resident Evil fan and you don't mind buying the game again then it's also worth it just to try 
 the controls because it's really great. If you're not a Resident Evil fan and you beat the game 
 before then I don't think you should buy it unless you've got $30 to spare.
  
  Overall, I thought the game was fantastic. Those who own a Wii and never played this game before 
 have no reason to buy this game. It's great, it's cheap and the controls are fantastic. I loved 
 every single minute playing this game and I'm sure a lot of people have too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leonsnewgroove2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  RE4 was already out for the Gamecube and the PS2 but is it as good as the other versions? RE4 hit 
 the Wii on JUNE 19 2007 not even a year ago.
  Well the graphics are good but CAPCOM IS MAKING RE5 so before they realease it they better make 
 sure the graphic are better than this. CAPCOM SHOWED alot of graphics from LEON's head being chopped 
 off, to be squished by a boulder, from there you can die so many ways like, just dieing of low 
 HP or be killed by a Regenarator, which they come later in the game (Trust me they ARE scary) ; 
 or you can die by a knife battle which is when you push alot of buttons so you won't get killed! 
 So graphics deserves a 8/10. The story we rejoin LEON in his second adventour, from his previous 
 game RE2!! Since Leon got out of Raccoon City he got a job protecting the presidents daughter, 
 Ashley, (trust me she's annoying!) ; Anyways his first duty is to find her in a MYSTERIOUS PART 
 OF EUROPE, the people that kidnapped her was the los illuminados (SPELT IT RIGHT?)
  So the story deserves a 7/10. THE WEAPONS go from Handgun, to Shotgun, from there it could goto 
 the famous RIFLE!!!! (SO MANY WEAPONS) , and who could forget the famous KNIFE!!! The evil people 
 have: KNIVES, PITCHFORKS, including the famous CHAINSHAW MAN, A MACE, a shield, a shield withe 
 spikes, and MORE!!! So the weapons deserve a 9/10. BOSSES, there are many bosses and I'm gonna 
 list MOST of them, DEL LAGO, EL GIGANTE, THE VILLAGE CHIEF, Verdugo, Dos Gigantes, Ramon Salazar 
 + Verdugo, Double Chainsaw Ganado , Jack Krauser, Jack Krauser (True Form) , U3, Bella Sisters, 
 Saddler, AND MORE!!! SO BOSSES desereves a 9/10. THE END OF MY REVIEW!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordinho1992
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 1:09 am PT
Review:  Even if you played RE4 on the GC or PS2, you should still at least play through this game once. 
 The PS2 version's content is a nice addition for those who only played the GC version, and the 
 use of the Wii mote is absolutely perfect for RE4. The level of precision you can attain is astounding, 
 and feels like it was meant for the game. The $30 price tag is a sweet deal, making this game a 
 must buy. 
  
  The cinematic presentation of the game is just overwhelming. It's almost like a movie is playing 
 before your eyes sometimes, and though I've played it through several times, I still find all the 
 scenes immensely satisfying. The action-responses that made the scenes even more interesting (and 
 necessary) to watch are perhaps even more enjoyable this time around due to the Wii's motion controls. 
 Sprinting, swimming, cutting, knife fighting (personal fave) , and more are done by moving the wiimote 
 in some way. There are still some of the A+B ones though, to balance things out a bit (or to do 
 something where moving the Wiimote wouldn't make sense) . 
  
  I never played Mercenaries in the old GC version of the game, but boy did I miss out. It's RE4 
 action at it's finest, and the WIi controls make it more enjoyable than it ever could have been 
 in previous versions. It offers an insane level of replay value, partially due to it's immense 
 level of challenge and intensity. 
  
  Separate Ways, Ada's own set of side-missions, explain many little details to fill in the plot 
 (and add to it) , and are enjoyable, even if they aren't as interesting as Leon's epic adventure. 
 
  
  The main game is intact and as enjoyable as ever, as the Wii controls add to the thrilling and 
 strategic fights. The very satisfying cinematics are all here, and the game overall looks better 
 than ever (even though no significant graphical advancements were made from the GC version) . 
 
  
  If you never played RE4 before, buy this game now. Even if you have, you'll love what the Wii controls 
 add to the game and should at least give it a try. I found myself buying the game right after I 
 tried it out, simply because the Wii controls are so great; that, and I never got to taste the 
 additional content released on the PS2's version of the game. 
  
  This is easily the definitive version of RE4, and still the modern classic it was a few years ago. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Michael0134567
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2009 6:56 am PT
Review:  The Good: Awesome graphics, excellent sound and music, flawless controls, lots of lasting value, lengthy 
 single player main game.
  
  The Bad: Some dialogue that doesn't make sense as in why it's there, no exclusive Wii content (except 
 for trailor of resident evil Umbrella Chronicles) , controls make it a little easier.
  
  Story: The story of this game is you are Leon S. Kennedy and the President of the USA has had his 
 daughter kidnapped. It's your job to go and rescue Ashley Graham (President's daughter) . The story 
 of this game is very good and will certainly keep you entertained and will never get you bored.
 
  Overall=10/10
  
  Controls: The controls are so awesome. The controls aren't difficult and they are fun. They work awesome. You 
 aim your gun with "B", you press "A" to shoot while holding "B". To run, you have to hold down "Z" 
 while moving forward. You can do a 180 turn while moving backwards by pressing "Z". To bring out 
 your knife, you hold "C" and swing the Wii Remote or you can press "A". To reload, you hold "B" to 
 bring up your gun and then swing the Wii Remote. Overall it's extremely responsive and much more 
 enjoyable to play with the Wii Remote and Nunchuk. And if you're too scared to use the Wii Remote 
 and Nuchuk, you can either use the GameCube controller or the Classic controller.
  Overall=10/10
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very good, the characters look very sharp, the enviroments 
 look great. Only thing bad about the graphics is you'll sometimes see blurry textures. The graphics 
 are from the GameCube game, not the PS2 game and it uses real time cutscenes just like the GameCube 
 version. And on top of that, you get 480p and 16:9 widescreen. So you get the best of both worlds.
 
  Overall=9.5/10
  
  Sound: This game sounds awesome. The sound effects are fantastic and sound crisp .The voice acting 
 is pretty good, despite some goofy dialogue. A nice touch is hearing your gun reloading, etc from 
 the Wii remote speaker which sounds great.
  Overall=10/10
  
  Value: This game has alot of value in it. It will certainly keep you busy. Theres 3 other game modes 
 and they are "Seperate Ways","Assignment Ada" and "The Mercanaries". The first time through the 
 main game will probably take you less than 15 hours, plus there's the bonus difficulty for when 
 you beat it which is more difficult.
  
  Overall: This is a terrific game with awesome controls, great looking graphics and more. Don't rent 
 this game. Just go out and buy this masterpiece. It really is awesome and is the best version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chickenscratch
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  Certain games can really give you the heebie jeebies but none can do it like Resident Evil 4 does 
 to me. Mind you I used to hide behind the couch when my parents would fight Bowser in Super Mario 
 3 (C'mon, I would've been like 3) 
  
  Playing through the game is a sheer thrill and always keeps you on your toes. After trying this 
 on the PS2, I was mildly impressed, but the meat and potatoes of this version is the new controls, 
 which by the way work absolutely beautifully. Poppin' caps in knee caps has never been so easy. 
 
  
  Occasionally Leon's head will get in the way while walking around causing you to jump feet first 
 into a rusty ol' bear trap but aside from minor hiccups the camera is pretty solid. 
  
  And now the sound, Oh Baby! This what probably gets me the most but the soundtrack and effects 
 are nothing short of freakin' sweet. Nothing satisfies quite like your shotgun causing several 
 brains splatter in unison. And then your sigh of relief when the music stops signals it's safe 
 to explore again. 
  
  Graphically it is one of the best looking games on the Wii including the art style. The visuals 
 definitely do an awesome job of boosting the creepy vibe. If your not accustomed to these types 
 of games you will die on a regular basis despite players saying the Wii controls make it too easy.
 
  
  And when your all done playing for the day and it's now dark outside, I find myself imagining Ganados 
 around every corner, waiting to rev up their chainsaw and slaughter me. But then again I might 
 just be a big frickin' chicken 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rexCo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Even if you played RE4 on the GC or PS2, you should still at least play through this game once. 
 The PS2 version's content is a nice addition for those who only played the GC version, and the 
 use of the Wii mote is absolutely perfect for RE4. The level of precision you can attain is astounding, 
 and feels like it was meant for the game. The $30 price tag is a sweet deal, making this game a 
 must buy. 
  
  The cinematic presentation of the game is just overwhelming. It's almost like a movie is playing 
 before your eyes sometimes, and though I've played it through several times, I still find all the 
 scenes immensely satisfying. The action-responses that made the scenes even more interesting (and 
 necessary) to watch are perhaps even more enjoyable this time around due to the Wii's motion controls. 
 Sprinting, swimming, cutting, knife fighting (personal fave) , and more are done by moving the wiimote 
 in some way. There are still some of the A+B ones though, to balance things out a bit (or to do 
 something where moving the Wiimote wouldn't make sense) . 
  
  I never played Mercenaries in the old GC version of the game, but boy did I miss out. It's RE4 
 action at it's finest, and the WIi controls make it more enjoyable than it ever could have been 
 in previous versions. It offers an insane level of replay value, partially due to it's immense 
 level of challenge and intensity. 
  
  Separate Ways, Ada's own set of side-missions, explain many little details to fill in the plot 
 (and add to it) , and are enjoyable, even if they aren't as interesting as Leon's epic adventure. 
 
  
  The main game is intact and as enjoyable as ever, as the Wii controls add to the thrilling and 
 strategic fights. The very satisfying cinematics are all here, and the game overall looks better 
 than ever (even though no significant graphical advancements were made from the GC version) . 
 
  
  If you never played RE4 before, buy this game now. Even if you have, you'll love what the Wii controls 
 add to the game and should at least give it a try. I found myself buying the game right after I 
 tried it out, simply because the Wii controls are so great; that, and I never got to taste the 
 additional content released on the PS2's version of the game. 
  
  This is easily the definitive version of RE4, and still the modern classic it was a few years ago. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lOh_Noesl
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 10:34 pm PT
Review:  As you may already know, Resident Evil 4 is the first in the series not to include any real living 
 dead (without getting too technical and wrecking spoilers) . This is one of the best things to have 
 hit the series though, it gave the game so many new options, like communication between enemies 
 and giving them different abilities depending on what sorts of weapons the have.
  
  First off, this game could hardly classify as horror, but it still retains it's over-the-top gore. 
 And even though the game is void of any rotting corpses chasing you through zombie infested towns, 
 it manages to create an equally creepy atmosphere with a spine-tingling soundtrack and incredibly 
 creepy settings (especially towards the end of the game) . To keep the 'regular crowd' of horror 
 fans happy, there is a mind blowing variations of how the main character "Leon" can be killed, 
 whether it's an instant decapitation by the hands of a crazy chainsaw man, or being eaten alive 
 by one of the bosses throughout the game.
  
  The controls on this game are brilliantly configured for all skill levels, I don't own the GC or 
 PS2 versions and so i simply cannot imagine how else the game could be played. Aiming is one of 
 the better points of control, as it just depends on how well you can keep a straight arm, and not 
 be over-come by adrenaline at the scarier parts of the game, as this would result in a very shakey 
 arm - making sharp shooting next to impossible.
  
  I've found that the visuals in this game depend on what sort of TV you are using. The graphics 
 tend to be very stretched out with poor clarity on a large LCD/Plasma TV, making the spotting of 
 traps, and angered Spanish villagers hiding in the vegetation very hard to spot. I recommend that 
 this game is played on a large 'box' TV, as the original versions were made to be played on them 
 and nothing has changed through the adaptation to wii. All in all the graphics are prettier than 
 the GC and PS2, but nothing you'll be in awe over, just kind of average for wii.
  
  The sound ranges from brilliaint, to not so great. First the highpoint of it... the terrifying 
 soundtrack. The soundtrack is what establishes the mood in this game, and will definitely creep 
 you out at one point in the game. The language is also a brilliant feature in this game, as almost 
 all of your adversaries speak Spanish, in a deformed and slightly twisted way. I've also found 
 that the villagers will often communicate with each other to surround you if you try and barricade 
 yourself from them which can be quite startling when your head suddenly pops off because the man 
 with the chainsaw decided that he'd sneak around you while you were distracted. The only somewhat 
 annoying thing about the sound in the game is the idiotic noise that Leon makes when he dies. This 
 noise is very hard to explain and/or make, but you'll hear it enough times throughout the game 
 to get somewhat frustrated at it.
  
  A final note - the action in 'Resident Evil 4' is hectic and very fun (with insane boss fights) , 
 making this one of, if not the best action game i have ever played. So, any wii owner who is over 
 15 and doesn't get scared easily MUST pick up a copy of RE4, as it is most probably one of the 
 best gaming experiences that you'll experience for a long while, packed with a tonne of extras 
 and replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anthonyb12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  The greatest zombie game of all time now on the wii! My family got a wii and I can personally say 
 I wasn't a big fan of it mainly because all they had was wii play, wii sports and some other kids 
 game. I was in gamestop and found resident evil for the wii... so I got my mom to get it (yeah 
 I'm broke whats it to you 0_o) anyways, I was impressed with the "point and aim" shooting in the 
 game. When you have bullets that is. Sometimes you'll find yourself swing your bloody knife around 
 (your do that by swinging the wii remote sideways) There are some mad bosses in the game as well. 
 Even though its a pain to keep Ashley alive throught half the game, that hardly ruins the game 
 for me. The best part is, its down to 24.99 used at gamestop! So if you don't have it, get in your 
 car and GO GET IT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrico11
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Having never played a Resident Evil Game before I hesitated when the store clerk told me this was 
 one the better shooters on WI. He was right this game is really quite fun. Pointing and shooting 
 with the WI remote allows for an amazing level of accuracy as you mow through the hordes of zombies. 
 The story is good and the graphics are pretty good for a WI game.
  
  This game sets you as an agent sent to find the Presidents kidnapped daughter. You'll soon discover 
 that the group is really a cult of creating zombies and begin to plow through hundreds of Zombies. 
 This is a breeze with the WI remote you just point and shoot. The controls for the WI work very 
 smooth with the game. You'll go through several areas as you rescue her and try to escape. As you 
 head through the story you find things to sell to the merchants for new weapons and upgrades. You'll 
 need to decide what weapons to use as space is limited. You can only carry so much so you'll need 
 to manage how much ammo and healing items etc you keep. Once you get used to the fact that you 
 stop to shoot from a stationary point this game will be a blast. Most enemies make a sound and 
 warn you when they are close to you so it's easy to move away and get out of range and start shooting 
 again. 
  
  If you enjoy shooters and don't mind zombies popping out from everywhere then this game should 
 be in your collection. After you beat it once it opens some bonuses to keep you playing this includes 
 a couple of short quests with another character that are just as fun as the main quest. You should 
 get a good 25-30 hours per play through. 
  
  
  Good 
  WI remote allows for pinpoint accurate shooting
  Excellent incorporation of WI control scheme 
 in a game.
  Extra content is fun and gives adds more playtime. 
  Replay with new weapons and outfits with nice added affects
  
  Bad
  Limited inventory space 
 
  Ammo occasionally gets sparse
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: YieldToast
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  The nightmare continues with Resident Evil 4; An amazing game from start to finish guaranteed to 
 keep you on edge and keep you hooked until you finally see the ending cut scene, but the game doesn't 
 end there.
  
  Quite different to other Resident Evil games as their is no T-virus (or any other virus) in the 
 game and if you expected shambling corpses to be your main enemy then you are going to be disappointed, 
 but don't let that discourage you from buying this game, you will regret not buying it if you do.
 
  
  You arrive in a remote Spanish town, searching for the Presidents daughter, who has been kidnapped. 
 Upon arrival you are immediately attacked by the villagers, it doesn't take a genius to know something 
 is out of place. As you progress through the game you come to learn that the villagers are infested 
 with a parasitic life form and have no control over their actions. Different to previous games 
 in there series enemies drop herbs and ammunition, which in the prequels was usually hidden and 
 had to be found. Because enemies drop the ammo it is plentiful and so the need to conserve ammo 
 is reduced (but not abolished) .
  
  The gameplay has also drastically changed, long gone are the fixed camera angles and the occasionally 
 awkward manoeuvrability. Now all the action is seen using the "over the shoulder" gameplay and 
 it is noticeably easier and faster to move around, a critical feature when fighting off hordes 
 of enemies. Different to typical Resident Evil games but it appeals to more gamers who didn't like 
 the fixed camera angles. The gameplay, though different, is superb.
  
  The graphics are impressive the surrounding scenery and the areas themselves look chillingly good, 
 the dark corridors and filthy environments are a big factor in making this game so great. The enemies 
 and bosses are also visually impressive Saddler and the thing know as "IT" look exceptionally horrific 
 and leave you wondering if its even worth attempting to fight such beasts.
  
  The new enemies have a massive impact on the game, it wouldn't be quite the same without the chainsaw 
 wielding Dr. Salvador or the ghastly regenerators. They also have reasonable AI, grouping together 
 and attacking at once to try and overwhelm you. There are a few moments when an enemy is in hiding, 
 waiting for you to walk past before bursting out on you. Luckily only one enemy carries a gun, 
 and you don't need to worry about him 'till your near the end. Other than that one, all other enemies 
 have melee weapons, don't expect not to get hurt, there will be plenty of times when you find yourself 
 searching for a herb.
  
  As I mention earlier, completing the game isn't everything. Once you complete the game once you 
 unlock "The Mercenaries" minigame and "Assignment Ada" and later "separate ways" which fill you 
 in on the few gaps in the main game. All three are enjoyable extras to an already fantastic game. 
 These extras really add to the replay value of this game, as the rewards are great.
  
  If there is one down side to the game it is the Difficulty (Professional Difficulty wasn't bad) . 
 Each boss was very easy (The last boss being somewhat of a disappointment difficulty wise) non 
 of which challenged you very much. The only hard parts in the game are when you are face to face 
 with a chainsaw wielding maniac and they are only hard because they take a substantial amount of 
 bullets to kill. If your new to this sort of game I recommend Easy or Normal. If you are a veteran 
 however then im afraid you must complete the game on Normal before being able to come across the 
 professional difficulty, the only one which can be challenging. To be fair the mercenaries minigame 
 was Hard, but the reward (when you eventually complete the minigame) is worth it.
  
  Overall this game is an absolute legend which nobody should go without. Fantastic gameplay, immersive 
 storyline , excellent replay value and some chilling enemies. The easy difficulty is redeemed with 
 the professional mode and the challenging mercenaries minigame. You will not regret purchasing 
 this game. And remember to watch your back when you hear that chainsaw starting up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: galaxybrawler
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2008 3:23 am PT
Review:  i saw a review of the game on gamespot and thought it looked great so i bought it. i had no idea 
 what i was in 4. blowing the crap out of freaky people and the continuous rush of excitment. the 
 game made me feel like i was there. the graphics are very good for the wii probably the best besides 
 mario galaxy. the lack of multiplayer is no problem as friends and family will happily watch not 
 daring to take the controls. in the game u play as a secret agent in search for the presidents 
 daughter. on the way is a long lasting popultion of mutilated freaky bunch of villages trolls and 
 other screwed up experiments that will make u cringe when they are right up in your face. the game 
 is definately the series best game. this time being a 3 person shooter instead of the usual acade 
 like 1 person shooter. the range of guns goin from a 9mm handgun to a fierce shotgun. this game 
 is a great game to play on a saturday night by yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattya13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Just to start things off, if you are wondering on whether you should splash out your hard earned 
 money on this game then think no more.. this is/ one of the best games on the Nintendo Wii.
  
  You play as Leon, a special agent deployed at the beginning of the game in search of the presidents 
 daughter in a zombie packed religious town. This may not sound like much but believe me the battles 
 are intense, the puzzles are mind boggling and the sheer gameplay is just fantastic. The graphics 
 are much improved over the gamecube version and fear no more!! The red laser is out and the traditional 
 crosshair is in, making it much more accessible for the softer gamer to just pick up and play.
 
  
  This is just one of those games you don't want to put down, thanks to the enthralling storly line 
 with its twists and turns and non stop action. The campain takes roughly 10-20 hours to complete 
 and has various difficulty settings. It is hard to pick any bad points about this game but one 
 would definately be the realoding. It is severely frustrating when you find yourself in one of 
 many intense firefights and when you need to reload, your character stands still to do so. This 
 can prove severely frustrating if you run out of healing items. 
  
  Overall this is definately worth a buy and is just so addictive and immersive. All I can say is 
 BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theoracleofgame
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  In 2005, Resident Evil 4 for the Gamecube came out. It received praise from every part of the gaming 
 industry. Two months later, the same game was ported to the PS2 without losing much of its quality. 
 A PC version came out and after that horrible PC port, gamers did NOT want to see RE4's face on 
 another platform again. With Nintendo's new console out, though, RE4 got ported once more.
  
  Before I get into the details, let me tell you I haven't finished the game. It doesn't mean 
 I don't have as much insight as I can, it just means I am still experiencing the joy of RE4, and 
 haven't finished. Fans of RE will recognize the main character in this game, Leon S. Kennedy. He 
 is now an agent working for the President on a mission to save his daughter. He starts investigating 
 in a village somewhere in Europe, only to find a middle-aged villager swinging an axe at him. You'll 
 be fighting enemies similar to this throughout the game, and they remain creepy for a long time. 
 
  
  The game has somehow managed to give you extremely powerful weapons and add somewhat supernatural 
 enemies without making you feel underpowered. Speaking of weapons, you'll find standard shooter 
 staples, such as the shotgun and handgun, while encountering less common weapons like the mine 
 thrower. The thing that makes Re4's weapons unique, though, is the fact that you can tune them 
 up at the Weapons Dealer. You'll be faced with the common question of: Buy a new gun, upgrade a 
 gun, or buy something else. 
  
  Even though you can be a walking arsenal, you will have some restrictions that come in the form 
 of the Attache Case. This is basically your fancy suitcase that you carry around which contains 
 your ammo, weaponry, and restoratives. You can buy new and larger Attache Cases at the weapons 
 dealer, but these cost quite a bit. You'll find yourself organizing the case alot to make space, 
 and it will make you think before buying that heavy-duty rocket launcher. You can have a lot of 
 guns, you just have to think of which ones are more useful and compact. 
  
  This game is extremely hard, both in the form of supernatural enemies and sparse ammo, mostly the 
 ammo though. I have had to start the game over once, due to lack of ammo. It's easy to pretend 
 you're Rambo, but you're going to regret it later on.
  
  The thing with this game is that you can't use the run and gun technique. Why? Because every time 
 you fire, you have to aim with a zoomed in over-the-shoulder view first. Every time you do this 
 it will stop Leon dead in his tracks. This makes you consider tactics that will let you deal with 
 a mob of villagers while not taking a chunk in your health.
  
  The graphics gave me mixed reactions. It has amazing character design, but there is still low resolution, 
 as there was in the Gamecube version. This helps emulate that the European village is run down, 
 but in different environments, it just gets in the way. The character design is still, as I said, 
 amazing. Fire looks extremely realistic too.
  
  The audio is still the same, with a creepy, subtle score, along with the moans of villagers and 
 chants of psycopaths in robes.
  
  Why get the Wii port when you have the Gamecube version, though? Because the controls are different. 
 All aiming is handled with the wiimote, as well as context sensitive actions that involve doing 
 a movement with the wiimote. Besides that, RE4 is still the same.
  
  In the end, this is basically Resident Evil 4 top to bottom. It shares its strengths and weaknesses, 
 while implementing a new control scheme. If you have a Wii and want a top notch horror game, RE4 
 is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mack2D2
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  I'd like to state from the get go that I tried to enjoy the early Resident Evil games on Playstation 
 and Dreamcast, and I just could not get into them for some reason or other and because of that 
 I feel like I've been missing out on a great franchise.
  
  I noticed the rave reviews RE4 was getting on Wii, and I saw the low price tag at my local Fred 
 Meyer and said "Screw it, I'm giving it a try"... and I gotta tell you, that was a GREAT decision.
 
  
  As far as the controls are concerned, I'm kind of mad that you can't strafe... what the heck is 
 with that? Besides that though, the controls are awesome. You point and click to shoot obviously, 
 and this was my first realization that the Wii's controllers truly are something innovative... 
 changing the way games are played. Fast twitch abilities pay off in this game as you can pull off 
 head shot after head shot no matter who you are, no need to hold your analog stick for 5 seconds 
 to aim at the other side of the screen... it's as simple as flicking your wrist in that direction 
 quick and pulling the trigger. While I complain about the inability to strafe, I believe it is 
 actually a key component in the games ability to make you jump when a beast pops around a corner 
 on you.
  
  This is the type of game that is just fun to watch. Turn off the lights, give your girlfriend a 
 bag of popcorn and get her involved in a few of the puzzles... let her yell "Watch out for the 
 dude to your left he's throwing an axe" and you can game all night without her feeling excluded 
 or getting upset with you. You can even let her hold the wiimote and do the shooting you want, 
 while you use the analog controller to move the character around.
  
  I found this game incredibly fun, and maybe it was the shock factor of finally enjoying a Resident 
 Evil title but I'm looking forward to playing through it again sometime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NFS102
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition
  Capcom
  Rated M for Mature
  
  
  Review:
  
  
  In 1997 Capcom released a survival horror game called Resident Evil. The game was a smash hit for 
 Capcom, Selling millions of copies on the remade gamecube version. Resident Evil 2 and 3 were both 
 released as sequels to the first smash hit game. The Resident Evil series was highly regarded among 
 critics and fans alike, so its no surprise that when Resident Evil 4 was announced, gamers listened 
 up. Resident Evil 4 was then released on the Nintendo Gamecube in 2005, and it more than lived 
 up to the Resident Evil namesake. The game won numerous awards from websites all across the world, 
 including tons of Game of the Year awards. Resident Evil 4 was an excellent game in all aspects 
 when it was released in 2005. But now the legend of RE4 continues, this time making its way onto 
 the Nintendo Wii, and it proves that even a 2 year old game can still kick a**. 
  
  In Resident Evil 4, you take the role of Leon S. Kennedy (from RE2) . His mission you ask? To save 
 Ashley, AKA the Presidents daughter. It seems as if it would be an easy assignment for Leon. He 
 had never been so wrong. He finds out that Ashley has been kidnapped by an evil mastermind known 
 as Lord Saddler. Saddler is not a nice guy. He and his companions have been brewing up a way to 
 take over the world. To do this, they use the help of Plagas. The Plagas are horrible monsters 
 that house themselves inside of human's bodies. They take over their host and turn them into blood 
 thirsty, almost zombie type creatures. Unfortunately for Leon the only way to get Ashley back, 
 is to take down Saddler and his hordes of Plaga infested zombies. For those of you who say the 
 story is mediocre, or even just all right, you're deeply mistaken. The story of RE4 is easily the 
 most compelling I've ever seen. The story will grab hold of you as soon as you start, and will 
 only strengthen its grip while the story gets deeper and darker as every nail biting second elapses 
 away. The story feels like your watching a horror movie on your couch, and sometimes it will even 
 make you forget that you're playing a game. The characters voice acting is brilliant to go along 
 with the story, and the horror atmosphere of the game is so strong that it will almost make you 
 sweat. The games story alone is a reason why you'll keep coming back time and time again to relive 
 the terrorizing experiences only brought by Resident Evil 4.
  
  As I said before, Saddler is not a nice guy. And although it seems as if Leon is out matched by 
 Saddler's army, well it turns out Leon came prepared. He brought along his trusty handgun, just 
 incase of any problems. You see Leon from a Third Person perspective. To aim your weapon, you hold 
 B on the Wii-Mote. To fire, you must press A while aiming at your target with the Wii's pointer 
 function. This is the biggest difference between the Gamecube version and the Wii edition. The 
 controls work great to say the least. The pointer function is spot-on and makes aiming even easier 
 than before. It really gives new life to the game, so much that even gamers who experienced the 
 game on the Gamecube or PS2 might want to come back again for the Wii. 
  
  The controls of RE4 are great, but they would mean nothing if RE4 didn't have the pulse-pounding 
 gameplay that it does. Whether you're facing dozens of zombies or shooting down a boss, the intense 
 action of RE4 never stops. The game continuously throws new enemies and obstacles at you. The great 
 diversity of gameplay really just adds to the thrill of RE4. You could be gunning down zombies 
 in one minute, and in the next you could be driving a jet ski while trying to escape an explosion 
 from behind you. One thing is certain though; you'll never get bored. Actually, you'll be far from 
 bored when you're fighting the bosses in RE4. The boss fights bring heart-stopping gameplay every 
 single time you face them. Some are hard, some are easy, but all of them are insanely fun and different 
 from one another. Trust me, if you want a game with great gameplay, look no farther. Resident Evil 
 4 will provide non-stop action that will appeal to anyone with a pulse.
  
  My next statement actually makes me sad in a good way. That statement would be about the visuals 
 of a game. The thing that saddens me is that the Wii's best looking game, is actually a two-year 
 old port. It's pitiful that developers today still cannot beat the beautiful graphics of RE4. On 
 to the good part, RE4 looks great. The visuals look nothing shy of superb for Wii standards. The 
 characters still look great, the landforms still look sharp and pretty, and the blood of your enemies 
 still look like a sight crafted by the gods. Most people value graphics pretty highly, and if your 
 one of these people, you need to pick up RE4. I have yet to find a blurry texture in the game, 
 actually I've yet to find anything close to that. Everything looks great, there's no denying it.
 
  
  Now let's get a little deeper into RE4's gameplay. I'm going to get out the main point; you can't 
 mindlessly shoot things in the game. If you try you will dye very quick. Every enemy has their 
 own weak points and strong points, which adds a lot of strategy to the game. Luckily, you won't 
 have to fight the game with a simple handgun either. Along the way you'll get shotguns, machine 
 guns, and yes, even rocket launchers to help you out. You can find some items in the game, but 
 most you'll have to but with money collected from your fallen enemies. After you collect enough 
 money, you can talk with a merchant on what you want to buy and upgrade. You'll need him along 
 the way, otherwise your doomed from the start. The fun of upgrading and trying out new things can 
 help you. So instead of getting a preset inventory of guns, you can customize your arsenal to fit 
 your own liking.
  
  You'd thing that RE4 really had nothing to offer but the single player mission. Well there isn't 
 a multi-player mode, but there are tons of other things for you to do. One of these being the Assignment 
 Ada missions. The Ada missions take place while Leon's adventure unfolds, and you get to play them 
 through for even more enjoyment. Basically, it's another game packed into RE4. What more could 
 there be? I mean you have a 15 hour single player game and another 5 hour side mission game! Well 
 for you who like to just shoot things, the mini game called "The Mercenaries" will fit your style 
 perfectly. The Mercenaries mini-game sticks you right in your favorite levels from the game, but 
 this time there's enemies all around you. You can compete with your friends to see who can rack 
 up the most kills in a single round or try to beat your best score.
  
  With so much to offer, Resident Evil 4 is the best $30 dollar investment you'll ever make. From 
 the gripping story to the non-stop action, anyone with a pulse will absolutely love Resident Evil 
 4. If you didn't get to experience the game on the Gamecube or PS2, you need to play this classic 
 game. And even if you did play the game on Gamecube or PS2, you'll probably want to add this game 
 to your collection as well. The motion sensing controls bring a new experience to the game that 
 can only felt on the Wii. Resident Evil 4 will go down as one of the greatest games of all time, 
 and it would be a shame if you didn't play it. It has already reached number one on my all time 
 favorites list and I'm sure it will break into at least your top ten. If you don't have this game 
 yet, I can't stress the fact enough that you need to play this game.
  
  
  Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition gets a perfect 10 out of 10 from me.
  
  
  -NFS102
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _bLaZeR_
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2008 3:05 am PT
Review:  resident evil has been known to be an amazing set of games, and nothing has changed in resident 
 evil 4. if anything re4 is one of the best games ever created. the game starts off in a small village 
 in a rather rural part of europe. from there on you will go through many different envioroments 
 and face various enemies. the games visuals, even after a few years of the engines creation, are 
 still fantastic. the story is of a very high quility and very indepth, and the script is very well 
 written. the A. I are pretty smart, and sometimes may get the better of you. the game also features 
 a large amount of weapons such as pistols, shotguns and rifles. the story should take you a good 
 10-15 hours to complete. the bonus content should add alot more to keep you busy. overall re4 is 
 an amazing game, highly recomended 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 12:30 am PT
Review:  First off, I would like to tell you, "GO BUY THIS GAME" 
  
  good: leon is a bad @$$.
  Supurb story/charecters.
  Awsome weapons.
  weapons have a great feel.
  great controls.
 
  zombies.
  addictive.
  plenty of unlockables/modes.
  
  bad: no multi-player in any form.
  the single player ends :* (
  
  
  This game is truly a 
 classic in my eyes, I will remember it FOREVER.
  It has plenty of great moments that just make you think," I wish I was leon"
  (when you make 
 a zombies head explode)
  And plenty of moments that make you think, "I'm glad I'm not leon.
  (when a chainsaw guy cuts 
 your head off)
  You will see leon die..... alot, and each and every way he dies looks awsome, especialy the getting 
 your head cut off by the chainsaw guy, that has to be one of my favorite deaths in gaming history, right 
 alot with cutting guys in half in gears of war. Residen't evil has a story mode, which couldn't 
 be better, as well as a, "survive as long as you can" mode and a few other modes to top off the 
 already great package. It has unlockabe outfits and a professional difficulty. I have beaten this 
 game at least 5 times (I think more like 7 or 8) What are you waiting for? GO BUY THIS GAME!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  The resident Evil Series has always been one of those series that disgusted me... not because of 
 the gore or violence, that's completely welcome... but because of the obnoxious control scheme that 
 plagues an otherwise great game. I know what you are supposed to say "but that control scheme makes 
 it scarier." No, that control scheme makes it broken! With RE4 Capcom finally got it right. 
  
  I don't know the back stroy for RE4 because of the previous games' problems but you really 
 don't need to know much to jump right into this new classic. You are Leon Kennedy and you are dispatched 
 to a remote village in Spain (I think) and you are charged with rescuing the President's daughter. 
 From there you embark on a journey through that village, a castle and an island. The enemies range 
 from Villagers who have been infected to the actual physical form of the infection itself (basically 
 big bugs) Half way through you rescue the daughter and you end up protecting her through many parts 
 of the game. 
  
  The control scheme is almost the same as any other resident evil game except for one detail. The 
 camera is fixed and located directly behind Leon shoulder. this allows for the control scheme to 
 always match the direction that you character is moving. This makes all the difference. If Capcom 
 remakes the first three resident evil games in this perspective, I would buy all of them in a heartbeat. 
 The added Wii controls really put you in the game and give you precise aim when taking heads off. 
 I say get the Wii version it has all of the PS2 bonus features and a really fun console scheme.
 
  
  The graphics for a GC/Wii game are superb and very fitting for the genre. The art direction is 
 dark and gloomy and at times darn scary. The sound id great and the small improvement of adding 
 Wii-mote sounds when reloading is a great icing on the cake addition. 10 years from now RE4 will 
 be seen as one of the best games of its generation and it is well deserving of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vietboi89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Alright i know this is a bit late but hey I love the game and the guy on the cover is my hero. 
 OKays first of all let me start by saying if you dont have Resident Evil 4 then i really dont blame 
 you since its predecessors were only meant for a certain fan base buy now GO OUT AND GET IT IF 
 YOU LIKE ANYTHING THAT MAKES GAMES GOOD! Thats right RE 4 is completely new and its a bit obvious 
 that its a good game since it was remade 3 times (disregarding the PC version which will be shunned 
 for now) but i recommend you get it for the Wii since you will get the most outta the game with 
 ur trusty Wii remote. Ok this review might be a little short since RE 4 is a great game and i about 
 to fall asleep without realizing it so anyway lets try this the old fashioned way. 
  
  Graphics: Just right for the game which means its freaking Spectacular
  OK guys as u may have 
 noticed RE 4 is not on one of those next gen consoles like the Xbox 360 and PS3 but keep in mind 
 that this is a import to the Wii so its not a new game just a new experience sorta. So the graphics 
 may be a little out dated but hey I've seen some next gen titles do way worse than RE 4 and if 
 you rate RE 4 among all the Wii games than dare i say its the probably the best tho Im still at 
 a stand still between this and Super Smash Bro BRAWL!! Ahem but graphics arent really anything 
 and to RE 4 it only counts for only so much (it counts but only so much whatever the hell that 
 means but watever) What im trying to say is RE 4 isnt a "hey look at me sparkle" game though it 
 wouldnt fail at that but its the overall experience that makes this game worth everything. Ok lets 
 hit some characters first of being LEON!!! your everyday secret service (use to be zombie killing 
 cop) parasitic Spaniards killing, (I'm not calling Spaniards parasites just the ones that are infects) 
 grotesque mutant slaying, smooth talking, and all around nice guy. Leon is probably the most generic 
 hero of your usual action flick (that involves a hot chick heroine) with a little more badass-ness. 
 Leon is one lady killer with that slick emo hair of his that works for him unlike other posers, 
 (u know who u r and i hope you die) and his freaking physique (i would kill Leon for it) and his 
 every girl's dream face (i would kill Leon for having it) . Basically Leon is that ideal man for 
 both men and women but hes not real so o well. Not lets go to Ada, Ada Wong that is (hey shes chinese) . 
 Alright now since we can see her face more clearly than the old RE 2 for the PS she looks pretty 
 damn saucy. Ada or, as Krauser likes to call, the b*tch in the red dress feature match her deceiving 
 nature. Though i must say her body is refined, she is probably the ideal women for women and some 
 men (not me i mean shes sexy and all but doesnt really meet my taste) Ada is just ur typical sexy 
 secret agent without an alibi. Ok now lets move on to one more, Krauseeerrrrrr!! or Hitler's right 
 hand man, no hes not a NAZI but if he was i wouldnt be too surprised (classic american hero pwning 
 NAZI scum would have generic so i guess he could be Russian? idk Stalins right hand man would suit 
 him too) All im saying is Krauser is "that guy" yep hes that Nazi communist guy that burns that 
 American flag RIGHT IN YOUR FACE, no he doesnt instead he injects himself with the virus only to 
 turn into a monster right in ur face (oops i guess that counts as a spoiler o well u should have 
 seen it coming unless ur that stupid and in that case dont use the internet) Well Krauser is ur 
 typical anti American villain waiting to slice up Leon god like body (actually Krauser is not anti 
 American he was actually training with Leon to become a Secret service agent o shnap was that another 
 spoiler o well no use in crying over spilled banana milk and im too lazy to go back and edit it 
 out so stop being a b*tch about it) All in all Graphics of this game add to the theme and experience 
 (obviously) and its so well done that it makes u want to put the Wii mote down and just stare at 
 it all day, not really but hey its good enough to say that it doesnt suck
  
  Sound: Great
  Ok first of all i dont give two turds about sound unless its really horrible and 
 makes me wanna throw a squirrel at the TV (i dont like squirrels) but for RE 4 sound was phenomenal. 
 Everything sounded really real. The only time when i thought Why the hell is that making that noise 
 something would just pop out and CHAINSAW MY HEAD OFF OMG or PUKE ACID UNTIL MY FACE MELTS. That 
 right peoples death visual goes the distance probably should have noted that in the graphics department 
 but eh wth u should read my whole reviews anyway unless ur a turd face jerk. Anyway so yea sounds 
 cool and creepy and the Spaniards speak spanish and Leon speaks and AMerican and Ada speaks chinese 
 (actually she doesnt well at least not in the game not sure if she speaks chinese, i'm not even 
 sure if chinese is the proper way to refer it... o well idc u no what im saying) So SOUND is cool 
 and fits in perfectly 
  
  GameuPurei (Gameplay, i think Japanese people will hate me from now on) : Lovely And Hot
  
  
 Yea its Hot like volcano lava mixed with cooked bacon fat hot. If you have played the previous 
 games then u now of the moving around a scenario and aim and hope to hit but in this it is over 
 the shoulder. At first its annoying so you have to adjust at first but later on ull be shooting 
 those creeps in the face... and then kick them to prove your point (LEONS COMING WITH A VENGEANCE) 
 So yea gameplay adds to its free movement and awesomeness. Now there will be some of you that dont 
 like this new system and say its less scary because of the camera view. Ok lets get this straight 
 those people are assh*les and need to get a personality, second of all, this game could have been 
 a hell of a lot scarier if Capcom's main focus was to make me sh*t my pants. Personally i believe 
 those scenario type settings have reached their scariness peak and cant seem to get any scarier 
 than they already are but with this new system who knows but lets try to paint a picture. Picture 
 this ur walking down a hall and its pretty narrow and since u love these horror games u got a little 
 bit of claustrophobia but anyway u notice there is this rizzing motor sound and ur like wth is 
 that and u notice a door so hey maybe someone wants to give me a moped right? Coolies lets g-HOLY 
 F*CK HES GOT A CHAIN SAW!!! and u onli got ur pistol and hes pretty freaking close so u try to 
 peg with him a few bullets cause ur scared sh*tless to whip out ur handidandy shot gun and oh ur 
 headless Leon boohoo... now change ur briefs. So yea a-holes camera angling doesnt mean sh*t when 
 u cant anticipate what going to happen to you i would know since i always went to a game guide 
 to play fatal frame (I'd like to NOT shorten my life span or increase my heart rate) Anyhoo RE 
 4 is pumped with gun pumping action and a heart pumping experience (heh i just used to word pump 
 like 3 times I'm such a turd) and i you finish some of the games requirements u get pimping Leon 
 and who doesnt want pimping Leon (losers and feminists that cant SHUT THE F*CK UP THATS RIGHT U 
 KNOW WHO U R) but dudes gameplay equals big win for this little sexy Wii game and hey RE 4 is probably 
 the best action game ull get for the Wii, all the other good games are probably just good adventures. 
 And with the WIi Remote you better make sure ur not high on caffeine or the suns beaming on ur 
 Remote (makes Leon looks like hes got Parkinson Im not trying to be funny but its true and if you 
 laughed then u should high five urself and pretend i was there) 
  
  Conclusion: GET IT IF YOU HAVENT PLAYED IT for any console but preferably the Wii though i must 
 say some censorship got its hands on that version and the PS2 has more of the original content 
 but ur second play through the Wii version should reveal all that was covered (lady getting impaled 
 in the face was really "OMG thats so cool" and Leon makes a funny somewhat controversial joke ahhh 
 Leon if we could have a conservation you'd probably break my neck) O and now i will spoil the ending 
 the bad guy dies hahahah now enjoy
  
  
  RESIDENT EVIL 4 GETS: A 10!!!!!!!!!!!!
  No it doesnt im a reasonable person it get a 9 POINT SOMETHING!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  This is my second Resident Evil game after playing RE2 on the N64 (which was a fantastic and thrilling 
 experience) . I expected another great RE game, and bought this after reading good reviews on Gamespot. 
 RE4 not only delivered, but it blew me away. With all the focus on multiplayer games, I find it 
 really satisfying to find and play a game that focus on the single player experience. To me that's 
 where the heart of gaming is.
  
  The Wii remote and Nunchuck is utilized well (there's also a Zapper, looks like a gun, you can 
 buy for the Wii and use it for games like this I think) . Point the remote anywhere on the screen 
 and the gun reticule will follow. Snap your wrist and you'll pull out a knife or reload your gun.
 
  
  This RE game is different from the others in that you don't have to concentrate so much on resource 
 management. In the previous games, ammo was hard to come by and you had to really watch your bullets. 
 However, this doesn't mean that you can just pepper the enemy with bullets, just that it gives 
 you more elbow room. This game feels much more as a shooter (but nothing like the arcade style 
 Umbrella Chronicles) . The puzzles are easy, and I can't complain (I mean, who really wants a game 
 with tough puzzles that frustrate) .
  
  The view is 3rd person, you see things from over Leon's shoulder. The soundtrack is top-notch, 
 the music will make you feel uneasy and will also help to alert you when there are maricon around. 
 It's also an opportunity to learn some bad Spanish, the ganados and other enemies will be chanting 
 them into your ear, which bring up the enemies in RE4. They are not called zombies, they are not 
 quite there yet. Rather it is a virus in them that makes them crazy. The enemies get more horrific 
 as you progress along, and the 'boss' battles in between are just outright fun (especially the 
 first one on the lake) . There is a diverse array of weapons and upgrades, but since space is limited, 
 I found myself sticking with a few select.
  
  The only negatives I can think of with this is the Wii remote sensor bar. It is optimal only if 
 the remote is directly across its path. For example, if you have a huge TV, you'll have to place 
 it on the bottom (at the top, the signal is weak or nonexistent) and you'll need to sit on the 
 floor or get a low chair to make sure it registers. This is more of an issue with the Wii rather 
 that RE4.
  
  I found this game to be very addictive and beat it multiple times, and unlocked all the extras. 
 I didn't find the game hard, they move slow for the most part and you can maneuver around. Of course, 
 you can always make it hard for yourself by playing the entire game without upgrading any weapons, 
 using only the default pistol, etc. When you get the Thompson or the RPG, it's a blast to mow down 
 enemies but takes all the challenge away. You can also play as Aida in her mini missions. There 
 is a significant amount of unlock-able material, and you may find yourself replaying this game 
 several times before it gets too jaded.
  
  Bottom line, probably the best game in my mind for the Wii right now and one of the best games 
 I've played in 2007. Can't wait for RE5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chellmit55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 is a MUST PLAY game, especially on the WII, even if you already have it on another 
 system! There are so many good things to say, this game is definitely the BEST Resident Evil game. 
 I never had been a fan of Resident Evil until this. This has great gameplay and superb maps and 
 area. It's a huge game with over 40 hours of gameplay! With even more, when you win you can go 
 and play the main story in pro mode, start it over with the weapons you ended with (OWNAGE!) , or 
 play Separate Ways, where you play as the second main character of Resident Evil 4, Ada Wong, in 
 five extra chapters! There is also an arcade game call The Mercenaries, you can unlock characters 
 in Resident Evil series, and play with them in this game by killing as many enemies as you can 
 until you're evacuation chopper arrives. Back to the main game, the areas of play are amazing, 
 an old run down village, a creepy huge castle, and an island research lab. You don't fight zombies 
 in this game, instead you fight Ganados, people infected with the "Plague Virus". They can talk 
 and communicate with each other but still have the zombie weapons like knifes and axes, and walk 
 at you while moaning. They only speak Spanish and work together to take you down. Resident Evil 
 4 has a AMAZING AI system. The weapons need a little more variation, but still are awesome and 
 unique. Enemies don't use guns, so you buy guns from a merchant who is strangely everywhere in 
 the game. You can get ammo from killing enemies. Resident Evil 4 is a third person shooter and 
 uses most Resident Evil combat, the stop and shoot attack. The action is still great! The graphics 
 even though the WII isn't too good with graphics are AMAZING! They need a faster and funner weapons 
 switch though. You have to pause the game, go into the inventory, and click equip to the weapon. 
 Kind of pauses the intense of the game. As for the horror, I've seen better, it's not too scary 
 because of third person, but you'll still get a chill down you're spine when you fight mutated 
 monsters, or confront chainsaw maniacs. Resident Evil is worth getting in every way. It is a great 
 time and great play. By the way, if you're thinking of getting this game, DON'T GET IT FOR PC! 
 On PC the game is completely horrible, from graphics to horror. In my opinion this game for WII 
 is the best, but PS2 and Gamecube are great too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zingbabba
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Resident evil has always been at the top of the video games tree of awesomness.
  
  this game was naturally brilliant when it came out for ps2 and gamecube. when the wii came out 
 this game was remade in expectations to make some extra money for the company. 
  
  This game is stunning, it is wat resident evil is meant to be, it has a hero who doesn't have some 
 absurd unbelievable super ability while he continues to kick the arses of all the bad dudes. this 
 gives the player a more satisfying feeling of contentment in their zombie killing spree.
  
  the story flows so well its easy to follow while providing thrills at the same time, it allows 
 you to be introduced to the game until you get used to it and then it kicks into the action, plunging 
 you into a civilization of zombies. you are able to collect and use items and weapons and ammo 
 as you please while limiting you to the amount you can carry giving a more realistic feel. the 
 weapons can be upgraded to your liking and the controls make it even more realistic.
  
  this game is perfect in pretty much every way with expodential graphics for the wii and thrilling 
 realistic feel... perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha_and-Omega
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games ever made, the atmosphere, the story, the characters and best of the violence 
 and gore............
  
  This game is a breathe of fresh air as most people have put it when it comes to the resident evil 
 series how it all works out perfectly...... to some it isnt even a real Resident Evil game, this 
 is becasue the evil "force" in this game is not zombie but a cault the "las Illuminados" (translated 
 to "the illuminated ones") who have been taken over by these parasites that are know as "las Plagas" 
 (translated to "the Plague") . 
  
  Instead of them being mindless zombies the los Illuminados are smart, the dodge bullets, they sneak 
 up behind you and they let the people with melle weapons such as pitchforks (in the earlier stages) 
 to stun rods (in later stages) while the others with sickles, crossbows and hammers throw stuff 
 at you from afar.
  
  I personally think that this is the best game that you can get on the nintendo wii (not sure about 
 the other consoles due to not playing them) but from what i hear it is extremely good on all of 
 the consoles.
  
  After the main game there is still plenty of stuff to do and unlock, just from passing the game 
 you unlock heaps such:
  : The Separate Ways mode where you control Ada Wong and find oput her role in the main game.
 
  
  : The Assignment Ada mode where you play as Ada once again trying to find 5 plaga samples.
  
 
  : The Mercenaries Mode, quie possibly the best minigame that i have ever played or ever made for 
 that fact. In it you start of with Leon and you have to kill as many of the Los Iluminados that 
 you can in a period of time (you can extend this time) getting a 4 star rating gives you a new 
 character depending on which level you choose, the unlockables include Ada Wong, Jack Krauser, 
 H. U. N. K. and the infamous Albert Wesker.
  
  :Movie browser that shows you all the Cinematics in the main game and later the Separate ways.
 
  
  You are able to continue with your save and do the storyline again even after you have finished 
 the main game. you keep all of your weapons and all stats and that.
  
  Theres far out bosses and awesome effects this is easily a must for all console owners (it appears 
 on the Gamecube, PS2, Wii and the PC) .
  
  A perfect Game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asmaar99
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  this game is awsome
  
  its long, hard, and addictive which means you will never get bored of it.
  
  there are amazing 
 weopens to unlock.
  
  The graphics will blow you away
  
  the storyline is soo goood that it feels like an actual film !!!!!!
  the zombies are soo fun 
 to kill
  
  i dont really have a problem with this game the only downside is no online or 2 player but still 
 its amazing for value and the game is awsome
  
  this game isnt for the ******
  
  you must buy this game for your wii if you dont i dnt know what games you like, baby games ?
 
  
  this game is great to pl; ay with freinds aswell as they will assist you were to go etc. when you 
 buy or play this game your thoughts about the wii and its games will change straight away, i am 
 positive you will like this game so dont wait go and buy it now !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neo_Kelyn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition:
  The game has you take control of Leon Kennedy as he struggles and shoots his way through rural 
 Spain in an attempt to save the U. S. president's daughter, Ashley, and get to the bottom of the 
 psychosis afflicting the region.
  
  Vital Stats: 
  Gameplay:- 10
  Visuals:- 10
  Audio:- 8
  Fun:- 9
  Replay Value:- 8
  
  At a Glance:
  + Superb use of the Wiimote's motion 
 control.
  + Graphically, the game is HELLA pretty.
  + Artistically, the game is damn near flawless.
  + Fantastic implementation of basic role play 
 elements, such as weapon upgrades.
  + You can SUPLEX your attackers.
  + Voice acting, script , atmospherics and FX are all spot on.
  + A veritable trove of extra game 
 modes.
  = You have to complete the story to unlock the extra modes.
  = Much of the content feels unashamedly derived.
  - The music can occasionally become irritating 
 and feel out of place.
  
  The Meat:
  At the time of writing it has actually been about three months since I've seriously touched this 
 game but the experience remains present and Vivid. That, I feel, is testament to it's brilliance.
 
  
  I was a newbie to the survival horror genre when I came to this Resident Evil 4: Wii edition, but 
 I left it an avid fan. The reason it took me so long to break into this particular realm of gaming 
 is because I couldn't play its predecessors. Simply put, I found the control schemes awkward and 
 cumbersom, and the fixed camera angles to obscure the action. In RE4: WE gone are these annoyances; 
 the camera remains resolutely over the shoulder third person and aiming is a breeze with the Wiimote.
 
  
  RE4: WE is so far the only Wii game to perfect the aiming mechanic. Though it's a simple matter 
 of pointing where you want to shoot, Capcom has managed to get the sensitivity just right and certainly 
 doesn't send Leon spinning every time you accidentally aim a little to far to the sides.
  The rest of the control scheme is effortless. Switching between free movement and aiming is a simple 
 matter of holding B, shooting, melee and actions are all handled with with the A button and vary 
 depending on circumstance and whether you're aiming or not. And, while I'm sure there are buttons 
 for them, the actions of reloading and knife attacks are handled perfectly with a wiimote waggle.
 
  
  What's truly brilliant about the control scheme is that it's so simple and intuitive that it in 
 no way interferes with the experience as a whole. If nothing else it adds to it, which is great 
 because this is a game packed to the gunwales with barely restrained atmosphere. The purposefully 
 and deliciously bleak visuals, atmospheric sounds and sound track keeps you permanently on the 
 brink of break down. Even when you've cleared out an area, you never feel entirely safe, it always 
 feels like a crazed Spaniard is about to jump out and ram a pitchfork in your face.
  
  This brings me to the game content. We've all dealt with Zombies at some point in our lives, whether 
 in game, film or literature. La Genados, El Gigante, the Zealots and the host of other sociopaths 
 that inhabit the game world blow zombies out of the water. I've always found zombies, and their 
 mindless, trudging ways, to be vaguely amusing and something to pity and play with. Not in RE4 
 though. La Ganados are not to be f***ed with. You know withing a few encounters that these deranged 
 europeans are not zombies, are not slow and are dangerous as hell. And it only gets worse from 
 there.
  As well as your basic cannon fodder you'll encounter noticeably more dangerous foes, and so long 
 as you're prepared to ignore that they are clearly derived from things such as LOTR Cave Trolls, 
 X-Men's Wolverine and classic mythical and Lovecraftian imagery, you will be scared, you will be 
 holding on by the skin of your teeth and you will be loving every moment of it.
  
  Along with the barage of crazed enemies you'll have access to a suitably diverse arsenal with which 
 to put them down. The basics of pistols, shotguns, SMGs, Rifles and explosives all here. Not only 
 this but they come in many different flavours which are all noticeably different; some are faster 
 than others, others stronger, more penetrating or with higher clip capacity and they can all be 
 upgraded as you play. It's a simple matter of selling treasures and buying the upgrade from one 
 of the many merchants holed up through out the area. This means you can mold the game somewhat 
 to your play style and adds a bit of variety in the event that you get bored.
  
  If you do get bored you can always check out one of the extra game modes in which you can either 
 play through 2 instances of Ada Wong's involvement in the story or take part in Mercenaries, an 
 against the clock -cum- endurance mode in which you have to kill everything as quickly as possible 
 whilst not dying in order to ramp up a high score. These modes all make fun diversions from the 
 main story but suffer a single downside in that you have to complete the main game to unlock them. 
 However, the chance of you dulling out before you've played the game through is slim to none.
 
  
  The game is damn near unrivalled on the system in terms of content, control and visuals (yes, I 
 think it looks better that Galaxy) . The soundtrack isn't anything spectacular but mostly does a 
 good job of sitting in the background and amping up the atmosphere the gameplay, visuals and sound 
 fx combine so fluidly to create; just try not to pay it too much attention because it can grate 
 on the nerves after a while.
  On the Wii you will be hard pushed to find a complete experience as emersive as this one. There's 
 stuff to kill, and there's the need to do anything survive, something that's truly brought to light 
 when you're running low on ammo. In such times the survival aspect of the game is revealed in all 
 its glory and you're delivered a truly unique gaming experience.
  Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition may not push the system to its limits, but it definitely demonstrates 
 the true depth of play that only the Wii can deliver. A must play for anyone with the balls to 
 pick up a copy.
  
  Overall Score: 93% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ST3-3YA
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  I was walking around shops just looking for wii games that I thought might look interesting and 
 I came upon Resident Evil 4. I thought well looks pretty good so I bought it. Got home started 
 playing it. Well, you couldn't get me away from the TV screen. This game is really addictive and 
 just fantastic.
  
  I can't find anything wrong with Resident Evil 4. It's just perfect in every way. Chainsaws, 30-40 
 ft monsters, Parasites, Gore, Blowing characters heads off. It's just hours of endless fun and 
 entertainment. I havn't completed this game yet, even my dad's further ahead than I am, but it's 
 still probably the best game i've played.
  
  Gameplay - 10/10 Atmosphere - 10/10 Price - Worth spending the money.
  Overall 10/10. Perfect!
 
  
  By the way. . . . Play it in the dark it's much more intersting. Unless your too scared. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Methuselah6463
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  If you loved the game for the gamecube.. you will love it for the wii... Its easier to play and 
 aim at the enemys.. Story is the same... alittle more added to it .. it does look alittle clearer 
 then the gamecube version.. I mean really its Resident evil 4... so either you love it or you totaly 
 hate it.. lots of games have tryed to copy it... I think its a cool plot for the story of the series... 
 only disapointment is that now its more actions then horror.. not that it didn't have its points 
 that were scary.. I can say that half way down the game it becomes more like playing metal gear 
 then a resident evil game.. the controls like i said before are amazingly good... and really its 
 just a fun game and worth owning if you don't already have it... its very very very DIFFERENT from 
 RE 1 Throu 3 and code veronica.. its a fun game.. the puzzles i think were tooooooo easy... the 
 graphics were great... and really shocked the hell out of me when i played it on the game cube... 
 just a very cool game... alittle sad no zombies... but still happy to keep up with the story line... 
 umm really its just fun to play.. and another game that i think should go down in history as one 
 of a kind... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalchubbs45
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 is an awesome game and much improves on the wii version with the wii remote function 
 to point and shoot with the wii remote. It also has all the extra unlockables from the ps2 and 
 gamecube with some added extra missions. RE4 definentaly delivers hours of fun on end though the 
 story is a little unoriginal has some surprises so the story is good just not anything we have 
 never seen before. There is hardly anything wrong with this game the gameplay is perfect it sounds 
 great it has some of the best replay value ever though it can be a little frustarating sometimes 
 its more then worth it. the game is a little short once you run through it a few times you can 
 do it in about 5-8 hours, but having the chicago type writer and infinite rocket launcher make 
 for quick boss battles and fast run through the game. RE4 is tthe best resident evul gam in the 
 series so if you have not played this game pick it up now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario2BM5
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  This Resident Evil is by far the best in the series! Leon is back and is set by the president to 
 save her daughter in this zombie infested village. Leon realizes that all of the villagers are 
 infected with brain controling parasites. Leon has to go past a whole village full of spanish peasants 
 (no offense) . Everything is here from the extras in the PS2 and GC versions which makes it the 
 ultimate Resident Evil 4 package. The only differance is that the controls have been upgraded a 
 whole lot for some great fast shooting action. If you have any gun then all you have to do is press 
 B to aim and press A to Shoot. You have to point any where at the sreen with your Wii remote to 
 shoot. The graphics havent improved from the GC or PS2 versions but still looks great! You might 
 not get over the fact that you have done this before but if you look past that and look at the 
 incredible controls, all of the extras from the two versions, and just the fun of the game you 
 will enjoy a whole lot. i gave this game a 9.0 and i recommend buying it again for a second time 
 if you already have played it on the GC or PS2 but if you never played the two then the Wii is 
 perfect for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chroniclehobbit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 1:38 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 (RE4) first premiered (as to my knowledge) on the Nintendo game cube. It became 
 an almost instant classic, featuring Leon Scott Kennedy from RE2. Then, after it's success, a port 
 was developed for the PS2 featuring a side mission for Ada Wong, additional costumes, unlockables. 
 There was also a port to PC which was not as successful as the other versions. Now there is a Wii 
 edition which is honestly quite appropriate. As I am sure most people saw it coming, combining 
 RE4 with Wii game play was inevitable. RE4, overall has always had an impressive presentation in 
 it's graphics, and sound, as well as interactive game play, and cut scenes. Add all this to the 
 Wii's wireless motion sensing controls, and it's a "marriage" meant to last. The only concerns 
 that I might have had in the beginning, was getting used to the Wii controls, which were easy to 
 get used to anyhow. The other is the fact that, although RE4 looks great as always, and still runs 
 as smooth as ever it looks almost identical to the game cube version, with a faster frame rate, 
 it seems. 
  
  A game can have amazing graphics, but end up with a slouchy frame rate to back it up, which there 
 is no present problem with as RE4 Wii edition goes. 
  It is definitely one of my favorites. Thanks for playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xraydon
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  There is so much to say about this game. This is the reason I bought a Wii. (not this game but 
 this kind of experience) It was also my first game for the Wii. After I beat it I was kind of disappointed 
 that it was over, yes it was that good.
  The graphics are good. The effects are excellent. There is no better feeling than blowing the head 
 clean off of an enemy. The atmosphere is also top notch. The music and sounds add to the eerie 
 feeling you experience while you are playing the game. It was not that scary but did enough to 
 keep you on the edge of your seat. 
  The puzzles that you encounter are hard but can be figured out if you use your head. The controls 
 I found to be excellent. The ability to flip 180 came in handy many times while playing the game. 
 
  
  The AI was probably the weak point in the game. It was easy to get an enemy to follow you and then 
 lead him back where you could deal with him on your terms. I also found it to be easy to blast 
 one in the knee and then run up and knife him to death. There is no shortage of ammunition and 
 that also made the game a little to easy.
  
  There was a large assortment of weapons to be found and bought and the ever increasing sizes of 
 briefcases you could buy made it possible to carry many weapons as well as a healthy supply of 
 potions so running out of room never became a problem for me. There were also a lot of health pick 
 ups that you come across so that also made the game a bit too easy.
  The story was excellent and I actually looked forward to it unfolding as I played. The cut scenes 
 were also excellent and looked fantastic on my 42" plasma with component cables.
  
  Most of the boss fights were memorable and took me more than one try on a couple of occasions to 
 beat them. The ending was very good and the last boss fight was just hard enough. The ride out 
 on the jet-ski to end the game was a nice touch and it in itself was not that easy. After you beat 
 the main story there are plenty of other things to do with the game such as extra scenarios where 
 you play as other characters.
  
  Some complain about having an unarmed person tag along with you for most of the game but I found 
 it to be a nice touch and enjoyed the times when I had to play as her and survive.
  
  In closing if you don't have this game and have not played it previously on another system, run 
 to your nearest store and pick it up. The 30 bucks you spend will net you hours and hours of good 
 gaming fun. There are a few bad points but the good ones far outweigh them. I look forward to more 
 games like this one. Enjoy!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: C00PB
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  Resident evil 4 found a welcome home on the wii. The gameplay is very similar to that that was 
 on the PS2 and Gamecube. The pointing of the wii-mote and motion controls during cutscenes only 
 add to the games greatness. 
  
  The graphics are still beautiful, though nothing in that category was was changed, or needed to 
 be changed.
  
  The main story mode should take around 15 hours to complete, and is absolutely AMAZING. You will 
 often find yourself jumping out of your seat scared. If you are really looking for a great story 
 mode, than this is it.
  
  There is also modes that came from the PS2 version, that make replay the replay value rise beyond 
 belief. You can easily spend another 5 to 10 hours on these awesome additions.
  
  There are very few bad things about this game, but the lack of multi-player is a little sad, but 
 it is not needed. Another turn down may be that it is the same game as before. The motion controls 
 are great but if you already beat this game a few times, there is nothing different.
  
  Overall This game is one of the greatest on the wii, and for the prise of 30 bucks, worth the money.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trashcan_Man
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  Typically I would give a re-released game a lower rating than that of its predecessor, because 
 we -- the gamers -- are too often ripped-off with rehashes that add ZERO to gameplay. The exactly OPPOSITE 
 can be said for Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition.
  
  CONTROLS:
  The first thing you encounter is the new control scheme which has you moving using the nunchuk 
 and aiming with the Wiimote. Fire a round and give the Wiimote a little shake, and your weapon 
 reloads. Nice touch, huh? For me, this was the first game that I played besides Twilight Princess 
 that truly made use of the Wii's wacky controller in a title that went beyond silly party games. 
 When RE4 debuted for the Gamecube, it was all we could do not to wet our pants over the over-the-shoulder 
 perspective, 180-quick turn,  mapped button, etc. All of this 
 is back, with the aiming of the Wiimote making the game much easier and "realistic" (c'mon, it's 
 still a videogame) .
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Not much has changed here from the GC version except the aforementioned control scheme making the 
 game much easier by being more responsive to your aiming ability. I usually knock points off for 
 a game being too easy as well, but if you try the game in professional mode after beating it on 
 normal, you'll see that the difficulty ramps up in a fair manner.
  
  BONUS CONTENT:
  If you already own the game for the PS2, I guess this won't be as much a factor to you, but the 
 inclusion of Ada's story for those of us with only the GC version is a MUST we can stop being bitter 
 over losing on the previous console. In addition, a shoot-em up akin to a survival deathmatch (think 
 time limit, lots of ammo, MORE enemies!!!) is included. You once again get to play as Hunk in one 
 of these scenarios as well. Tell me his head snap special move isn't the coolest thing you've ever 
 seen and I'll set myself on fire! Oh, and if you're wondering why my time spent playing this game 
 is so high, it's because using the Wiimote to point and shoot and getting 5-star rankings on the 
 survival mode is ADDICTING!!! Own this game.
  
  What It's Worth: DEFINITELY its list price of $29.99. Now that it's been around awhile, this price 
 may even drop sometime with RE5 on its way in 2009 (I hope) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobain112
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 3:49 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  .Outstanding detailed and artistic graphics.
  .Stellar level and character designs.
  .Very long campaign mode.
  .Carries on from Resident 
 Evil 3: Nemesis.
  .Lots of different creepy enemies.
  .Huge arsenal of weapons.
  The Bad:
  .Not enough checkpoints.
  Gameplay:9 (Backed up hugely by the wii controls)
  Story:6
 
  Graphics:9 
  Sound:9
  Value:10
  Resident evil comes to the wii and its great! Its a shoot 'em up styled game which is great the 
 fact that you actually point the wii remote at the screen as like a REAL gun would do and shoot 
 zombies! Unfortunately the story isn't so great, the beggining is great when its telling you all 
 the Back Story about umbrella and the breakout 6 years ago (Resident evil 3) it makes it as if, 
 if you've played Resident Evil 3 you'll really be interested after that theres nothing else to 
 do with umbrella which really sucks.
  I definitely think you should get this game.
  Go buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iain-Kinloch
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition is without a doubt one of the best game I have ever played, but what 
 makes it so special.
  
  For a start, the controls. RE4 plays like a dream. Aiming with the Wii remote is obvious but it 
 works really well. If you're skilled enough you can get ridiculously high accuracy rates. Heck, 
 you can get an accuracy rating of 70%+ even if you're using a machine gun, and likely much higher 
 if you use a more accurate weapon like the shotgun. The downside to this is that this version is 
 probably a touch easier than the PS2 or Gamecube versions. Other controls are as simple as slicing 
 with the remote to use your knife, holding down the B button and flicking the remote to reload. 
 Of course you can use the buttons to the same effect, but frantically slicing in a desperate attempt 
 to keep the Non-Zombies at bay when you're out of ammo is waaaaay more fun than pressing a button.
 
  
  The graphics are brilliant too. The enemies look fantasticly creepy, and the boss fights look really 
 impressive. Also, the game doesn't seem to have any frame-rate problems which is great. No matter 
 how many Non-Zombies there are on screen, they'll keep shuffling towards you at a steady pace, 
 that is until you unload several rounds of shotgun ammo into their face. Don't feel guilty, they 
 deserve it.
  
  The graphics also help make the games awesome atmosphere, but, its the sound that really takes 
 the cake. Some of the music is truly epic, making it feel just that bit more exciting as you play. 
 But even when you're not in one of the games boss fights, the sound is dramatic. The mumbles of 
 a villager, the chanting of castle guards, or worse. Sure, you might not be able to see it, but 
 you know there has got to be someone, or something lurking around you somewhere. The Wii version 
 scores a tiny little improvement over the other versions of the game in the sound department too. 
 When you reload, you hear the little clicks of your gun coming out of the remote speaker. When 
 you get a radio call, you here the temporary interference through the remote too. Its also nice 
 to play a game where the characters sound like real characters, instead of someone putting on a 
 cheesy accent that sounds stupid, you get a some proper voice talent. This helps make the game 
 all the more immersive.
  
  The game wont leave you wanting for content either. The main game should last you about 20 or so 
 hours, with bonus weapons and harder difficulty levels there to invite you to have another go through 
 it, as if you needed more reason other than the amazing boss fights and fantastic set pieces. Also, 
 the unlockables from the PS2 version of the game are here as well. With five whole new chapters 
 available to play through as a different character, and a couple of mini-games thrown in too, you 
 really can't complain about the lifespan of RE4.
  
  If you like games that involve shooting stuff, want a grand adventure that's good for multipule 
 play-throughs, or crave the sort of atmosphere that only the Resident Evil series can provide, 
 then RE4: Wii Edition is the slightly improved version of the game you need to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysteriojoe
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 is the one Wii game that actually makes use of the Wii remote (in a good way) and 
 has solid game play, sound and graphics. At $29.99 ( I bought mine used for $24.99 Canadian) it's 
 a steal and a "must own" for anyone who owns a Wii console. 
  
  Even when you finish this game, it has tons of replay value with lots of side missions and new 
 playable characters. 
  
  Resident Evil 4 has a strong storyline which blends seamlessly into the game play. Resident Evil 
 4 also proves that the Wii does have some decent power to make great graphics. 
  
  If you have played Resident Evil 4 on the Game Cube before then you might not want to replay the 
 experience on the Wii. I do think that the controls on the Wii Edition are a huge improvement over 
 the Game cube verison and feels more like you are pointing and shooting a gun. 
  
  RS4 on the Wii is the one (maybe the only!) game that makes you question, "Why can't developers 
 make all Wii games this good?" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonyMangtana
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  It's sad that IMO the best game on the Wii is a title thats been released on several old consoles, 
 but if take it or leave it was the choice, I'm definitely glad I took RE4 Wii edition. The controls 
 are all you can ask for [nunchuck to control your player - remote to aim your weapons and fire] 
 and the storyline and gameplay keeps you gripped in fine form just as every other RE game would 
 [minus the 1st person light gun versions in the series] This game is a must own for any Wii owner. 
 The suspense is amazing, and the gameplay was always going to be excellent, but the greatest point 
 is the control system which totally worked to the fullest, and maked the most sense. The Wii version 
 is definitely the best way to play this game. The Wii NEEDS RE5, it would boost the amount of solid 
 titles on the Wii. RE4 is amazing, and in addition to that, the unlocked games/bonuses at the end 
 when you complete the game are worth playing it over again for replay value. RE4 is as solid as 
 it gets for gaming as you have total 100% control over your player. A must have.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Last-Child
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2008 4:15 am PT
Review:  The game is pretty much identical to the Playstation 2 version but it offers so much more with 
 the use of the Wii remote and nunchuk. Even if you have owned and played the PS2 version this game 
 is still a must have. There is nothing quite as rewarding as blowing someone away with a shotgun 
 when you actually feel like you are there pulling the trigger. The only negative to this game is 
 not actuall the games fault it is the Wii Remotes pathetic speaker-its so metallic sounding it 
 occasionally ruins the sound effects which are brilliant throughout the rest of the game. This 
 game using its unique behind the shoulder view and aiming system is just the perfect mix of terror, 
 blood, gun-fights and a damn good storyline (if a bit different from other Resident Evil titles 
 seeing as the zombies aren't actually zombies...) All in all it is an absolute must have if you 
 own a Wii and it will constantly keep you amused and on the edge of your seat at points. Buy it. 
 Play it. Love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyke700
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  totally worth it...
  
  this is a fantastic game, is the best shooter on the wii (i don't like metroid at all =P) ! the 
 gameplay is awesome, the graphics are amazing and the storyline is very good!
  
  i never played a game so much or finished so fast (like 21 hr the first time in one weak O. o) .
 
  
  ----------------
  GAMEPLAY
  ----------------
  
  Just great.
  
  You simply aim the wii remote to a monster's head and then 'Bang! Bang!' thats it. 
  
  There 
 are bunch of different and fun weapons like rocketlaunchers, pistols, riffles, etc etc. An important 
 thing is as you cannot use the ambient or the field as defensive spot (only some few times) , so 
 you need to make better choices with the guns you are caring. For example there are different types 
 of enemies and you need to use different guns to kill each one of them.
  
  The gameplay is different from war games, you cannot hide and generally you need to kill your enemies 
 fast otherwise there will be a bunch of them together and will be more difficult to get rid of.
 
  
  Some times in the game you will need to play with Ashley (with her, not ats her, what turns the 
 things harder) , that means you have another ass to worry about and yeah, if something happens to 
 her (like if you accidentaly explode her, someone take her away or a giant guy smash her) is game 
 over. But in the otherhand you can command her to stop, hide, operate a machine, she can help you 
 to reach some items...
  
  After you finished the game you can play as Ada, the asian woman. It's pretty fun because you can 
 see the 'other side' of the story.
  
  Oh yeah, in a small part of the game you play as Ashley but she doesn't do anything actually, just 
 run and crawl under tables. 
  
  
  ------------------
  STORYLINE
  ------------------
  
  First you play as Leon, a agent from America that came to a village (that 
 seems to be in Spain =/) to rescue the presidents daugther that was mysteriously kidnapped.
  
  And yeah, Leon is that same nobie cop from RE2, but now looks like he left racoon city (what 
 is pretty obvious since the entire city exploded) and had a promotion.
  
  Well... the villagers are not actually people anymore. They are similar to the zombies from the 
 past RE games, but they are not contaminated with the T-Virus, they became the host of parasites 
 called 'Las Plagas'. 
  
  Thats spanish and in english means something like 'The Plagues', they are a bunch of worm fossils 
 that were turn back to life from the deepest hole of the Salazar's castle thanks to the boy himself. 
 
  
  Through his mission Leon meet a lot of ugly people like Luis, Salazar (a 20 year-old that looks 
 like 8 =S) , Saddler (the big boss) and Ada (yeah, she was in RE2 too =] but she is not ugly)
  
  Making long story short, Saddler turned everybody in the region to be a monster and Leon need 
 to kill everything to save Ashley (the president's daugther) .
  
  I don't want to reveal the end but, whatever happens.... like a classic RE game.... it explodes.
 
  
  
  ----------
  FACTS
  -----------
  
  1. Is not that scary, is more like... disgusting =P
  
  2. The bosses are not impossible to 
 kill and is not hard to figure out a way to kill them (but if you don't want to figure it out just 
 but a rocket launcher and explode the guy... or thing O-o)
  
  3. The ammo runs over sometimes and thats sucks =/ and there not unlimited ammo cheat (sh** !)
 
  
  4. No sex or nude scene XP
  
  5. The story has nothing to do with the T-Virus, although there are some relations with the Umbrella 
 Co. and Wesker.
  
  6. The extras are very good.
  
  7. The graphics are pretty good for the wii.
  
  7. ITS FUN AND WORTH IT!! =D After you finished 
 you will feel bad because it finished... =~~~~ but RE5 is coming my friend ; ] so pray for it cames 
 on the wii tooo =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMH74767
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 is a game to be experienced, if you never have played this game or any other Resident 
 Evil game for that matter, for one its one of the best game available on the Wii console.
  
  Story: You play as the protoganist Leon, who was previously in Resident Evil 2, in this game 
 he is looking for the President of the USA daughter, "Ashley Graham, you find your way to a remote 
 village somewhere in Europe, the villagers speak spanish, and there are no zombies, seems like 
 everyone is out to get you and you don't know why, later you find out what is REALLY going on.
 
  
  Graphics: The game originally came out for the gamecube several years back, (don't remember what 
 year) although the game is old, the graphics are still one of THE BEST for the Wii, extremely detailed, 
 and very convincing that you're there due to the wide screen view while playing, at times the graphics 
 are frightening especially when you're being surrounded by enemies, even at close range the facial 
 features are amazing to say the least.
  
  Sound: Music is atmospheric and the sound effects when reloading your weapon and firing rounds 
 into your enemies sound extremely believable, as if you had the real weapon in your possesion, 
 when the enemies are aware that you're here, the music changes and they start yelling to go get 
 you, now you're in panic mode trying to find a safe place to hide.
  
  Gameplay: Absolutely the best gameplay for any Resident Evil game, I love absolutely every part 
 of it, very easy to aim and shoot, and I love how you reload, and when you swipe your knife, if 
 feels natural.
  
  Replayability: Once you beat the game they are a variety of minigames to play, the ever popular 
 Mercenaries mode, this is where you can pick different characters and basically KILL KILL KILL, 
 and survive, then you have Assignment Ada, which tells a little bit about Ada and how shes trying 
 to retrieve samples, then the newest to a Nintendo console is Separate ways, which expands on the 
 story between Leon and Ada, it follows the events of Ada, while paralleling what Leon was going 
 through in his mission, so the replayability is extremely high!
  Overall: This game needs to be in your collection, unless you get scared too easily or don't like 
 blood, because this game is extremely gory, if you can get past this, this is A MUST OWN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acsguitar
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I've ever played. I remember my buddy challenging me to play it on 
 game cube a few years back. Being a PC gamer I blew him off and ignored until this game came to 
 PC.
  
  Then I about puked in my mouth playing the lame wacked out PC Version.
  
  Enter the Wii
  
  The aiming is top notch. The controls are unbelievable the atmosphere and 
 action are incredible.
  
  Great boss fights and never enough ammo put you on the edge of your seat throughout the game.
 
  
  yea the story can be a little cheesy but its a wonderful game and should be played by anyone and 
 everyone on the wii.
  
  Unbelievable and incredible.
  
  The only downsides I would say is that the game starts off very hard. It can be frustrating to 
 go into the main village and immediately get killed by all the villagers. 
  
  However, after you get past them you learn the controls and learn what makes resident evil 4 so 
 addictive. 
  
  Go now and buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kungphooey
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  I hadn't played any of the resident evils until now, but I picked this one up and i was totally 
 amazed. This game is truly spectacular in everyway and is as close to flawless as a game can be. 
 
  
  The atmosphere in the game is the very best part. Your always on the watch for zombies, and you 
 never know when they'll jump out at you, and it's always a frenzy when they do.
  
  This game will keep you on the edge of your seat, and you'll keep playing it over and over, it 
 just never gets old. 
  
  Only minor problem is that enemies go though doors a bit, like in Goldeneye, their faces and weapons 
 sometime pop through a closed door, and it is a bit easy in spots. But those problems are nothing 
 compared to all the amaxzing stuff there is to do. Especally the boss battles.
  
  This game is possibly, the best thing on the wii, and i reccomend it to everyone who might enjoy 
 a gory zombie killing action game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaveRGomez
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 Wii Edition is the best version of all the RE4 Versions , it has a complete gaming 
 with all the Special Unlocks like : Assignment Ada, Separate Ways, The Mercenaries, the Special 
 Costumes too, like the Pop Star and R. P. D. Uniform and the Armor and Tuxedo Costumes, and even 
 a Movie theater where you can see all the cut scenes from the game and from Separate Ways. The 
 best thing of this version is the Game play, that is what makes this one special from the others 
 though there is only one disappointing thing and it is the unchanged graphics... its a Next Gen 
 Console and the graphics look just like a Gamecube game... there was no change and that is what 
 lowered the score, but overall this Game has a Nice Story, Nice Weapons, Nice Women, Nice Enemies 
 (and difficult too) and many more awesome things that this amazing game has, this is totally a 
 game you should not miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toy11toy
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  What happens when you take the playstion 2 version of RE4 add the game cube version throw away 
 the Pc version add a a wii mote and a nunchuck what do you get ......................... RE4 wii 
 edition . Re4 for the Wii is the newest version of the Re4 ports and adds freshness with the new 
 controls thanks to the wii mote. basically you point at the screen and ridicule appears and it 
 actually is accurate {yes i am looking at you red steel and far cry vengeance} . you are Leon Kennedy 
 who has left to investigate the missing presidents daughter. The presidents daughter is being held 
 by the los elumenatos who scream every time the see you aral la lo or un balastara the A. I advances 
 nicely from rake holing dummies to gun holding bully's that will make you want to pull out your 
 hair. The music adds suspens and creepiness adding to the headless zombies huge bosses mega fire 
 fight and story that is LONG! plus you can find it in the bargain bin for cheep. But with all the 
 good comes the bad this looks like a gamecube game on the Wii and if you own it on th Ps2 there 
 is not really any new content other than a trailer for RE umbrella conicals. But still it has tons 
 of replay value and its at its core it is Re4. and thats why it gets a 9.0 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_ofoblivion
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  I am a great fan of the resident evil series and I couldn't wait for the release of resident evil 
 4 wii edition, I have the game on ps2, Gamecube and the wii and I've got to say the wii edition is 
 supreme! The endless gameplay makes it worth double any price you pay, the lifespan of this game 
 is very long as it has a long major storyline and loads of great extras for completion. The new 
 control system is what defines the pure enjoyment of playing a wii game! The other versions of resident 
 evil 4 weren't as enjoyable, they were 1 player games but the wii edition is even more enjoyable 
 when there's someone watching you, gives you a chance to shine! This is by far my favourite wii game 
 that i own, the graphics might not be as next-gen as any other 360 or ps3 game but the gameplay 
 certainly is. If anyone tells you not to buy this game, they're not talking sense! This game is definitely 
 worth playing and if you're not familiar with the resi evil games it doesn't matter this is the 
 new breed of gaming and it's nothing like the rather old school resident evil games! look ate me 
 i'm disrepecting the other games now, that's how good this is wow!
  
  
  anyways
  
  Lordo Out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamiChoudhury
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  Having played Resident Evil 1, 2 and 3, I was little surprised to learn that the 4th installment 
 would not contain any zombies. As a result, when I started to play the game at a friend's house 
 I was rather skeptical to begin with. To cut a long story short, within 5 minutes I was hooked 
 and felt that I needed to purchase the game myself. Resident Evil 2 and 3, although good games, 
 did not compare to the 1st, but this game is. The graphics are amazing and the atmosphere was similar 
 to that of Resident Evil 1, and at times a truly terrifying experience. I am not one to easily 
 get scared whilst watching movies or playing games, but I have to admit that this game has made 
 me jump a few times. It's that good.
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  Amazing. For a Wii game this truly looks spectacular.
  
  Sound: 9.5
  Really builds a terrifying 
 atmosphere.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5
  A challenging and rewarding game. The new Wii remote targetting makes this a dream to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViralPlayer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  The survivar horror game, Resident Evil 4, which graced the PlayStation 2 and the Nintendo Gamecube, 
 is now back on the Nintendo Wii, and with brand new control scheme, thanks to the Wii remote and 
 nunchuk. But is this game worth another encore? Or will it make you lose your mind and head?
  
  Story: 6 years after the events of Resident Evil 2, Leon S. Kennedy, now a government agent, 
 is sent on a mission to find the President's missing daughter, Ashley Graham, somewhere in Spain. 
 Leon is suddenly attacked by one of the villagers after questioning him about where Ashley is. 
 Leon discovers that the villagers is controlled by mind-controlling parasites.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay of Resident Evil 4 is now better with the Wii remote and nunchuk. You aim 
 the remote and press the B button to fire your weapon. To reload, simply aim and shake the remote. 
 When playing with the Wii Remote and Nunchuk, the laser sight on the guns is replaced with a target 
 that flashes red on enemies or breakable objects and green when there is nothing to shoot at. The 
 target is always present on screen, remaining a faint grey color that keeps track of the player's 
 aim. This allows the player to aim and draw the gun, retaining the original aim. Also, the Wii 
 remote now makes the knife command easier. Swing the remote and Leon will automatically slash at 
 the nearest target near him. It takes a while to get use to the controls and if you don't like 
 it, you can use the Classic controller or the Nintendo Gamecube controller instead anytime.
  
  Graphics: The graphics, although shows no difference from the PlayStation 2 and Nintendo Gamecube 
 version other then a real wide screen support, it stills looks amazing.
  
  Sound: The sounds is so realistic. With the Wii, you can hear your weapons through the mic of the 
 Wii remote. It sounds so real that it makes you feel like your actually using the weapons in real 
 life.
  
  Overall: It is disappointing that Capcom has not added any new features, other then a trailer for 
 Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles, but it still has all of the features from the PS2 version, 
 making it the best version available. If you miss this game before, you should pick it up and people 
 who already have a different version of this game, should consider relive the nightmare and greatness 
 of Resident Evil 4.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NatendoWhisky64
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  I never played the other versions of Resident Evil 4, but it was on myto play" list for over 
 a year. This past summer I finally got a stab at it for the Wii. It made me fall in love with it. 
 The graphics were great considering every other Wii game I played up till then.
  
  Anyway, in this game you play as a to cool for school guy named Leon S. Kennedy, a segret agent 
 sent to a mysterious village in search of the presidents daughter, Ashley. During your quest to 
 find Ashley you wind up in route to a hispanic village called Pueblo, which you have to survive 
 in. You might say well it shouldn't be that hard, just chat with a couple locals, and I should 
 be good. Well a chat would probably have you with a pitchfork in your stomach, instead of people 
 they are all zombies! What did you expect?, a bunch of people having a fiesta? 
  
  Ths game is nothing like all the Resident Evils, which is why I think it has been so well recieved. 
 It is not as much of a horror game as it's close relatives, it is more of a shooter RPG sort of 
 game. I mean sure you get the occasional scare you to the point of a little jump, but that is probably 
 only gonna be from being startled from a sudden face to face incounter with a zombie. But, even 
 if you do get scared the second time through shouldn't scare you at all. 
  
  The controls that they chose go so smoothly in this game. And the Wii remote helps you aim so quickly 
 and so percise that you won't ever want to play it on another system again. If some one is coming 
 at you from the right and you are aiming at the right side of the screen, you can get there in 
 the blink of an eye. But, on another system you would have to hold left until you finally reach 
 the other side, by then the zombie could be nawing on your neck. Plus the interactive cutscenes, 
 which if you don't do when it tells you, it will give you a painful smack on the back of the head 
 for not completing it. Or a general decapitation. 
  
  But upon completion of the game you will unlock several different gamepllay modes. Such as Assingment 
 Ada, where you can play using Ada Wong, a mysterious young women who mysteriously helps out Leon 
 in the story mode. Plus Mercenaries, where you can struggle to stay alive during the time limit 
 with an assortment of characters. Upon completion of these things you can unlock new weapons to 
 use in campaign mode. 
  
  The effects of your weapons are a real as they can get. You shoot a guy in the leg or foot, he 
 starts limping. You shoot a guy in the hand and they drop there weapons. It is such a fun game, 
 that it will take more than ten play throughs to get a little bored of. By the time you stop liking 
 this game, you will be faced with the problem of taking down real zombies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtslade27
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  When I first bought this game i didn't know what to expect because I had never owned a Resident 
 Evil game. Within the first couple of minutes of gameplay I was hooked.
  
  It's dark graphics and haunting sounds make you never know what to expect. Ganado can come from 
 any direction and they will certainly keep you on your toes, along with the other enemys such as 
 Dr. Salvador (Chainsaw Ganado) , El Gigante, Del Lago (A lake monster boss that is easy and fun) , Evil 
 monks, and Las Plagas (Evil parasites that infected the villiagers and occasionally pop out of their 
 heads, I hate those things!) .
  
  You may not like the game at first but once you learn the basic gameplay and controls and how to 
 dispose of enemys fast (you have a big battle ahead of you almost immediately) you will learn to 
 love it.
  
  Overall it gets a 10 out of 10 for being the best game i have ever played and I would recommend 
 this game to anyone that enjoys action, an interesting storyline, intense gameplay, and surprises. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chocolate1325
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 is a masterpiece it has appeared on Gamecube, PS2, PC and now it is on the Wii and 
 it is a very good port to the Wii
  
  Story
  
  Leon Kennedy is sent to find the presidents daughter who was kidnapped by a an cult group known 
 as Los Illumonados and has a parasite inside so that when it grows she will become a puppet of 
 cult leader Osmund Saddler the lead villain in this game and Leon also has it in him after the 
 first chapter of the game.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay is just what an action game must be like. The buttons do take a bit of time getting 
 use to. You hold B button to bring up a circle it shows you where you are aiming and press A button 
 why holding B to do a shot. To reload you have to hold B and shake the Wii mote up. This istotally 
 different to other versions because you have to take some getting use to but when you have managed 
 to master the commands it is a whole load of fun to play. For certain parts like the running away 
 from a huge rock you have to shake it from left to right and press the buttons at the bottom like 
 A and B. Also swimming you have to shake the Wii mote like that as well. Yes Ashley you have to 
 protect her right in the game she can be a pain sometimes by getting in the way but if you press 
 the + button she will wait and you give her commands to wait hide or follow. She is a pain she 
 won't go down ladders but she will open some doors and you control her for a chapter later in the 
 game. The enemies are mostly villagers and they seem simple to defeat but they come in packs sometimes 
 and you will need either a Shotgun shot or a grenade to take them all out. They drop items like 
 herb and if you mix a red, green and yellow and use it you get a bit more HP. Just when you think 
 you have seen there is all to see wrong new enemies come and are alot tougher. A merchant is in 
 the game who sells weapons like Rifle, Shotgun, Rocket Launcher only has one round, Magnum, and TMP 
 and there are 3 different locations in the game Village, Castle and Island and there are more powerful 
 versions of most of them weapons in the game. He will also ungrade them with either stronger firepower, Capacity 
 or reloading speed The quick time events in this game are good because you have to keep your hands 
 on the controller at certain cut scenes so be ready to press the button if not you have to start 
 from the last continue point. What also makes this game better than it's predessors is you don't 
 need ink ribbons to save you can save it as many times as you want so that is a good point.
  
  Sound
  
  There are types of different types of music when there's no villagers or danger 
 around its silent but when aload of them come a diffewrent type of music plays. Also the sound 
 is top quality.
  
  Graphics
  
  To be honest on the Gamecube it was good and the graphics are very good in this version also the 
 amount of detail that was put on this game from the areas to the character faces to the boss fights 
 and the layout of the game. It is very good indeed.
  
  Lastability
  
  This game has extras a mercanies mode where you try to get a high score and unlock characters and 
 weapons in that mode and movie Browser lets you see cut scenes from the game. Assignment Ada is 
 a game where you play as Ada and Seperate Ways is Adas story during the normal adventure mode. 
 Also you get hidden costumes and hidden weapons for completing it on certain difficulties. There 
 is alot in thsi game and you can also play through again with the weapons you had from the end 
 of the game.
  
  Overall Opinion
  
  Really it is a brilliant game that never lets up there is so much surprises in this game there 
 are a few problems one of them mainly being Ashley she is annoying in the game and a pain and it 
 is anooying epsically when she gets in the way. Some enemies can be annoying as well. Overall though 
 mainly it's a brilliant game and if you have never played a Resident Evil game play this one because 
 it is totally different to the others.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: palooka123
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  When I got this game I threw it in my wii. Man I was so excited I was about to burst. I started 
 it up and I was playing. I was having the most fun I had ever got out of a game. I played so much 
 my parents made me get off. I was officially addicted. The gameplay is so long its not even funny. 
 The game will give you maximum chills if you let it. Constant action! Head exploding and face popping 
 it is just plain brilliant. It is so long they squeezed at least 400 hours of gameplay into the 
 disc. They have the regular mode where you play as Leon Kennedy trying to save the presidents daughter, 
 Ashley. You have to save her and escort her home but she gets kidnapped 3 times and you have to 
 save her. All the while killing zombies. The boss battles are fun and you have to be resourceful. 
 Then after you beat the regular gameplay you can play in a whole nother series of missions as a 
 new character, Ada. They have at least 10 good missions and after you finish that they give you 
 20 more extra missions. After you beat all of them you can play the game in different outfits and 
 get new guns that were not available the first time through. This game rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greendragonlink
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Well this is a remake from the gamcube version and the PS2 version, i dont know when it was released 
 but i have played all resident evil games and this one is the best resident evil game (well.. i 
 havent played umbrella chronicles) :
  
  Graphics: This are awsome graphics you can see Leon very well and all the clothes see like real 
 clothes:
  2.0/2.0
  
  Sound: Excellent sound, but if it was better, the game would be scarier than it is now:
  1.5/2.0
 
  
  Addiction: Well you love it but after ur done through the game and your friends are in your house 
 and tell you i want to play that game and you like always doubt it:
  1.5:2.0
  
  Gamplay: The gameplay is perfect and this time Leon is at the right or left side (i dont remember) 
 so it makes you have a better shoot at those mutant people:
  2.0/2.0
  
  Difficulty: This game is really hard, you need to be an expert to know how to do everything and 
 you have very little information:
  1.8/2.0
  
  Total:
  8.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dante5000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best in the series by far because of all the improvements they managed to make. 
 First they lost the tank movements for Leon standing on the left of the screen making it far easier 
 to maneuver and shoot. Next you aren't fighting stupid rotting corpses but actual humans with real 
 weapons. Then they speak in spanish and dont just moan over and over again.
  
  They even have a great variety of enemies from original resident evil devil dogs to a giant troll. 
 It also has the scary feel of you being nothing compared to your enemies some of which can kill 
 right away. Then theirs the new attach case which adds some frustration but its better than a rocket 
 launcher and a key taking the same space.
  
  To end it all the mercenaries separate ways and assignment ada mini games make this game better 
 than you could believe YOU HAVE TO BUY THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popky07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  So I recently got the chance to have a little go at this beautiful Wii version of an absolute classic. 
 I must admit, I didn't expect much of a difference from my PS2 version, and had already written 
 this game off as the same thing repeated, but my friend insisted I have a go... and then I did.
 
  What do I think?
  I think it's genius.
  Quite simply, they've taken a game that was already amazing and fun and just given it a whole new 
 perspective that makes it almost feel like a different game. Even on "Easy" difficulty I swear 
 its far harder than the PS2 version ever was.
  Okay, so I could nit-pick and say there are some minor issues with porting the graphics to an entirely 
 different system, so the graphics don't appear as sharp or spectacular as they did on the Gamecube 
 or the PS2 (not that I fully understand why) but there's something missing with the graphics.
 
  Otherwise its the same amazing, breathtaking, engaging, fun, extremely scary and addictive game 
 that we all came to love (and for those who don't love it, you should!) but its been updated and 
 changed into some sort of hybrid of its former self to become a new bundle of fun.
  Like Resident Evil?
  Have a Wii?
  Buy it.
  Don't like Resident Evil?
  Have a Wii?
  Buy 
 it anyway you loser. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianack96
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Oh my god finally a game for the wii that is worth buying. And hell you should buy it. This game 
 is perfect. The story is a completely new one. If you don't want to buy this because the other 
 Resident Evils are horrible, this has nothing to do with the old ones (I wish it did) . The only 
 reason I should give this game a 9.5 is because the graphics do get a little messy sometimes. But 
 other than that nothing is wrong with it. It is really fun to play with your friends. This game, 
 if you play it at night... will scare the absolute crap out of you. Its not like other horror games 
 when the only horror is not finishing the game in 5 minutes. Things will jump out at you. The simplest 
 things such as snake will scare you because your mind will be on alert. The controls are very good. 
 This game is perfect for the wii and you will enjoy it. The graphics as I mentioned are pretty 
 bad, but its a wii game so unless you have a HD TV with HD cables deal with it. The characters 
 are awesome. You will probably go around the next day impersonating Leon... maybe round-house kicking 
 people. The difficulty is absolutely perfect. The story will occupy your time taking up to 25 hours. 
 This is why i name this game an instant classic.
  
  P. S. Do not listen to the bull crap reviews from other people. This game is a masterpiece!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmay007
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2008 3:28 am PT
Review:  The greatest Resident Evil ever especially as i've been able to complete it and the fact that the 
 story was brilliant.
  
  I had my doubts about this game for the main reason that i thought it was going to be just another 
 PS2 port with wii controls added but, even though i didn't by the gamecube version im glad i got 
 this one.
  
  The fact that you use both the wiimote and knuncuck makes it a lot more eaisier to pick up and 
 play as well as making the aiming a lot more accurate for me. Had it just been a normal control 
 pad I would have probably ether not wanted the game and never play a resident evil game never again.
 
  
  even though graphically it's the same as the PS2 and Cube versions, because of the Wii controls 
 it makes it a lot more of an enjoyable experience.
  
  More opinion this game deserves 10 out of 10 for everything from graphics to game play as i found 
 it just as creepy as the originals but a lot more polished and this is playing it on an old widescreen 
 60hz television. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gian399
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  At its core, this is the same Resident Evil 4 that multitudes of players have grown to appreciate. 
 It's a carefully paced, often breathtaking action game that keeps you on the edge of your seat 
 with lumbering almost-zombies, chanting cultists, and challenging fights against gargantuan bosses. 
 You view the action from a third-person view, and when you ready a weapon, the camera zooms in 
 close. Once you've drawn your weapon, you can't walk, but you can aim. It all feels very deliberate, 
 but it's perfectly countered by the measured speed at which your enemies approach you. However, 
 you shouldn't take this to mean that the action is any less exciting than in a traditional shooter. 
 These are dangerous foes, and you've got to pump them full of lead before they fall. 
  
  The fundamental combat is where the game shines most. Your arsenal consists of pistols, shotguns, 
 rifles, and more, with every weapon producing credible results. Popping pitchfork-wielding villagers 
 will cause them to drop their weapons. Or you can shoot them in the knees to make them momentarily 
 fall to the ground. Because ammunition isn't plentiful, being able to handle a crowd of shambling 
 psychopaths with as few shots as possible is a main priority. You've always got a knife as a last 
 resort, but unless you want to take a chunk of damage, it's better to keep your distance. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chainz94
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  You should know that this is a port of a gamecube game, so if you played that version than maybe 
 you shouldn't buy this one... other than that, this game is really worth your money and time. It's 
 a top-notch horror shooter...
  
  For a detailed story about the game, you should probably consider reading the Gamespot, or IGN's 
 review... but still, im going to give you an overview at how i see this game:
  
  The game features superb graphics... everything is amazingly well designed and animated, from the 
 blood and flesh parts flying from one of the villagers heads when you blow them off with a shotgun, 
 to the enormous adrenaline pumping boss fights! 
  The sound overlay is also stunning, it really just makes an unforgettable environment... one of 
 the cool parts is when your reloading your weapon, cause you can hear it all in your wiimote. 
 
  And of course, the most important aspect of any video game... the gameplay. It is just undescribable... for 
 a shooting fan, it can't get much more satisfying than what RE 4 offers. Planting a mine on one 
 enemy and watching all of the others getting blown away as well, is one of the MANY incredibly 
 engaging, immersive, spine-freezing aspects of what this gem offers...
  
  So, if you like great games, and your a fan of the genre... you would have to be crazy to miss this 
 one out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lunar52
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Wow... Wow. Resident Evil 4 is one of the best games I have ever played in my life. The graphics, 
 game play, controls, story, and even extra features are 100% perfect. This game is tied for my 
 number one Wii game. Here is my review of this astonishing game.
  
  Graphics: 10
  
  The graphics are amazing. The goriness of it is wonderfully delightful, even though that may sound 
 gross but they truly are. There is so much detail put into this masterpiece of a game. From rotten 
 meat on dirty basement walls to the highly detailed church.
  
  Story: 10
  
  Wow this game is like watching a movie. It's so exciting to see a new CG scene because the story 
 sucks you right into the game. At times it can be a bit cheesy for some but I still love it. It's 
 like watching a Horror/Mystery/Adventure movie.
  
  Game Play: 10
  
  You play as Leon Scott Kennedy, from RE2, as he is looking for the missing presidents daughter 
 Ashley Graham. Once you find her you must protect her throughout the rest of the game. There are 
 some parts where you're by yourself, which is good because Ashley can be a bit annoying at times. 
 There are a lot of horror elements in this game that you might just jump and scream as your playing. 
 This game always keeps you on the edge of your seat.
  
  Controls: 10
  
  Aim the Wii Remote at the screen just like a gun. Give it a shake to reload your gun. Hear the 
 gun reload out of your speaker. And SHOOT. Damn, I love the controls in this game. Some action 
 scenes you have to shake the Wii Remote really fast to run. It's really fun.
  
  Overall Score: 10
  
  This game is perfect. End of Review.
  
  Thanks for reading!
  
 
  -Lunar52 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrummerDude1010
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  Believe it or not, this game is only $30. Thats right, you can get an amazing game that would have 
 sold just fine at full price, for $30 dollars. Why not get it?
  First of all, I'll talk about the controls. They are not like other shooters, because you cannot 
 walk sideways while looking forward, and cannot move and shoot. If you could, this game would be 
 extremely easy. After a while though, you get used to the controls, and they feel great. There 
 are also a few uses of motion controls for reloading and during cut scenes to make sure you are 
 paying attention, and they are all fun. If for some reason you don't want to use the Wii Remote 
 and Nunchuck, you can use a Classic controller or Gamecube controller as well.
  The graphics however, are the only downside. Since this game was originally a PS2 and Game Cube 
 game, they have PS2/Game Cube graphics. Thats not really a bad thing, as they look just fine, just 
 not as good as other games.
  There are also many other bonus features. There is a mode where you play as one of the characters 
 named Ada. This will take only about a couple of hours to beat, but there is also a very difficulty 
 survival mode, that has you killing as many zombies as possible in the time limit to get the best 
 score possible. It's fun, but also hard.
  This is just generally a fun game. It combines shooting, zombies and a puzzle game all in one for 
 a great overall experience, all for a discount price.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dobrobill
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 13, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  A game where the only decisions one makes is what weapon to use during battle and who to use on 
 the mission. There is no freedom to move your character which unless you are really fast with the 
 pushing of buttons you will miss a lot of pickups and loose a lot of life meter. Everything in 
 this game is dictated by the programmer which in this persons opinion makes it one of worst games 
 I have ever played. If one wants to shoot, shoot and shoot somemore and take a lot of hits in the 
 process this game may be for you. There is plenty to shoot and then shoot over again. The boss 
 characters take some many hits one will get bored of pulling the trigger. If you like the way Duke 
 nukem or Doom allow one to duck and hide you, find lots of ammo and life containers won't find 
 it here. This game cost me nothing and not worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: futuramafan101
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  Resident evil 4 on the wii was a lot of fun to play and a great port from the other visions. You 
 play as Leon Scott Kennedy and you have to save president's daughter from an unknown group in Europe. 
 The gameplay was great with the back view so you can see the enemies better and better to play. 
 The graphics were great from a port and the controls make the game a lot easier to play from the 
 other visions with dodging attacks and from objects that try falling on you with using the wii 
 remote to do that and also when the enemy is stunted and you can kick them in the face which that 
 was pretty cool feature to the series and the boss fights were great and easy to beat. You also 
 get separate ways were you play as Ada in a own story to where you play 5 chapters. If you are 
 a fan resident evil you will enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NirdBerd
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2008 3:33 am PT
Review:  (Not a proper review I guess but it's my life story of the game and a summary of what I thought 
 of it :D)
  
  I was wondering why everyone was so excited about RE4 "Wii Edition" :/ .. I thought it's just for 
 Wii only owners to play.. or whatever, I was also hearing that RE:4 Wii Edition was Capcoms best 
 Resident Evil 4 edition, apparently better than the gamecube, ps2... I have played it on the Gamecube 
 and I absolutely loved it, so badly. 
  
  Ok, so in December after Boxing Day, I went and picked up Mario Party 8, and I saw Resident Evil 
 4 on the Wii... so I picked that up too, baring in mind that I was nagged by loads of people to 
 buy it and that it's a remake WORTH buying. 
  
  I got home, opened it, played it, I didn't feel much difference apart from the controls, well obviously, 
 but what I'm saying is is that these controls were pretty hard, and I couldn't manage for about 
 1 hour =S .... Then I fiddled about for a bit not caring about dieing, and I managed to get the 
 hang of these controls enough to get through the game. Not master them.. yet... Now I must say there 
 is more to it than just controls, it's the experience overall, the Wii gives you an overwhelming 
 experience in gaming, regardless of 'Graphics' or whatever, (graphics arent that too bad by the 
 way) .. If I had to get rid of any version of Resident Evil 4.. It would be on the PS2, the gamecube 
 version is too sexy, and on the wii.. It's a revolution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  This was an excellent buy for $30. The graphics are great and the gameplay is awesome. The control 
 are excelletn as well.
  
  I have been a fan of Resident Evil for years and have enjoyed each of the games. But this has been 
 the best one by far. I would recommend it to anyone who likes shooter games and a little bit of 
 gore.
  
  Although I beat the game in about 5 days (24 hours) it was still very fuin, addicting, and hard 
 to put down. 
  
  Looking at the ranking on Wii, this game has been out for nearly a year and still is in the top 
 10 of Wii games. I am currently playing Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles and that is not as fun 
 due to the rail shooter mode and not being able to control your player in the directions that you 
 want to go. But in this game you have full control of where you are going and the Wii controls 
 are awesome and make the shooting and hacking at zombies a lot of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dslyderink
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game as I'm quite disgusted with the glut of poor Wii ports on the market right now 
 - figured 3 nights would be enough to either have my fears substantiated or quickly complete the 
 game. Also I've never played a Res Evil game before in my life, figured it was for teens, so was 
 dubious that it could hold my attention.
  
  Wow was I wrong.
  
  I got hooked from the very first part of "The Village". The story, the dreary setting, the elaborate 
 design of the environment, the core gameplay - all absolutely first class.
  
  Of course when looking at textures close-up, it's not going to be pretty, but I found that by sitting 
 a few metres back from my HDTV it looked fine, and in fact some of the artistic design, in particular 
 of some of the chapels, is outstanding even by current-gen standards. What bothered me more (but 
 I got used to it) was the jaggies through lack of anti-aliasing. This was particularly noticeable 
 as there are many many straight lines via wood/bricks on building and walkways - so when you pan 
 the camera you often see a sea of jaggies. But after an hour or two your brain adjusts and you 
 don't notice it.
  
  What your brain DOES notice is the incredible immersion of the gameworld. It reminds me of Thief: 
 Deadly Shadows in many ways. The dim, dark, ominous setting is similar and just as well executed.
 
  
  Gameplay was good, shooting with the Wiimote is lots of fun and very accurate - but I wished several 
 times that Leon could RUN and DODGE. Results in quite a few unnecessary deaths, but that just adds 
 to the challenge I guess. I also found the save system via the typewriter cute but very annoying 
 when they were spaced out too far - and Leon has to walk, slowly all the way back to one.
  
  A big thing I think they could have implemented also was allowing the Wiimote reticle/pointer 
 to automatically pan the camera when it hit the edge of the screen. It was a bit annoying have 
 to use BOTH the nunchuck AND the Wiimote together to achieve this - those familiar with Prime Metroid 
 3 would probably agree that this could have made shooting much more enjoyable, as with a single 
 pan of the Wiimote you could also pan your camera along with it. Oh well, a minor gripe.
  
  I seem to have focussed on the negatives, but honestly, this game is more immersive to me than 
 Crysis was - and comes very close to the atmosphere induced in the wonderful STALKER game that 
 I played just before this (recommend that game highly for any Res Evil fans with a PC) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellwilder
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  Yay! This game is awesome! The storyline is excellent and it's gameplay too. But, you know? Something 
 is missing. Yes, a Co-op mode in extra missions would be perfect. Extra missions like recovering 
 Las Plagas samples or killing Ganado waves. Don't you think so? However, like I said, the game 
 is almost perfect; so I gave it a 9.5 rank. Once you started playing you can't stop! o. O It's ADDICTIVE!
 
  I spent 22 hours playng this game, because the beggining is quite difficult. I haven't played 
 the game on Professional, but I will do it someday and then I will describe how difficult is it.
 
  Sorry if my review isn't perfect, but I don't speak english very well and it's my first review... 
 However, thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felipegarro
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 7, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  it just make me SICK to watch as how everione loved this game so much, it loosed the RE stile and 
 its now so burned, they take it out for gcube, ps2, pc and now WII!!!!!!!! stop it! this game sucks, 
 no matter if u can aim with ur wii mode that make things a lot easier, dont waste ur money on this 
 game, the other versions are better, lets wait RE5 its good... but dont buy RE4 wii edition, i 
 already say it, sucks BADLY!!!!!!!!
  
  
  
  im saving u money, u can get this game cheaper for any other console, why get it for wii?? just 
 because u can point? that dosent make things better, look zelda TP, lots of people who have the 
 gcube version sell it for buying the wii version but it dosent have something different exept from 
 the control 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonyRider
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  its great its filled with great boss like the gigantic fish-shark-lockness monster thing or the 
 giant. so far the only problem is im stuck but it happens another thing cool thing about is even 
 the cut scens are fun to watch and i usually think its boring but not this time. one other that 
 makes me mad your in a small village in spain (i think its spain) and the zombes just keep comeing 
 it takes people to become zombes so i think that i killed at least a village by now and it can 
 get annoying how many there are. but once again thats not a major problem like i mentioned elier 
 im stuck in chapter 2-3 and its furstrating. but all and all its a awsome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sano90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 is one of those games that you can either love, or hate, and it's a very thin line. 
 I first played the PS2 version, and couldn't accept that you cannot sidestep... I also couldn't 
 find my way past the very first village part. So I sold the game, and then a year later my girlfriend 
 bought me the Wii edition, not knowing i had sold the PS2 version. Anyway i gave it one more shot 
 after looking up the strategy for the village, and once i got past it, i couldn't put it down.
 
  
  Here are the goods and the bads about it
  
  Good
  A pretty interesting, and shocking plot, it's never over when you think.
  
  Fun weopons, the 
 ammo is not as scarce as its predacessors.
  
  The music actually raises your pulse a bit.
  
  The sound is great, especially if you shoot 
 off someones head.
  
  The monsters are creepy.
  
  The Bad
  The controls can be a little shaky, but they are better than the PS2 ones.
  
  The lack of a 
 strafing command makes avoid even the slowest moving things difficult.
  
  The enemies are spanish... not really bad, but i wish i could understand what they are yelling... 
 like "Un Forrestero"..... that's all i can make out LOL
  
  The very first village, if you don't know what to do, will KILL your experience if you don't know 
 what you are doing, or where to go. If you suck at it like me, look up this site on how to get 
 through it, after that village the game gets SO much better.
  
  But it's still your decision, like ith all games i still say the best solution is to try before 
 you buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: follis12
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2008 10:41 pm PT
Review:  You've read the reviews, and almost to the man (or woman) , this game is supposed to be excellent 
 - one of the best available. Frankly, this is why I bought the game. However, I'm not quite ready 
 to crown it the king of the Wii, but I see the potential.
  
  The problem is I noticed a significant learning curve on the controls. Specifically, the "aiming 
 while moving" control. Apparently, you need to be standing still to aim with the pointer (Wii remote) . 
 To me, this really isn't what I'd call "intuitive", and it took me about five deaths to get the 
 hang of it.
  
  I haven't played for long - maybe about 5 hours. I intend to finish the game, but my initial thought 
 is this game is one that you really need to invest about 10 hours to get fully engaged. 
  
  Graphics are very good, and the story and variety of game play seems great so far. If you're a 
 fan of the series, go get it now - I'm sure you'll love it. If you haven't played the RE series, 
 give it a chance, but be patient. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 1:39 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 is still one of the best games out today. After reaching instant-classic status 
 on its GC release and then being ported to the PS2 with some nifty extras, Capcom decided to dip 
 into the porting party again with Resident Evil 4 for the Wii. What we get is the definite and 
 best version of Resident Evil 4. Everything that made Resident Evil 4 fantastic -- reworking of 
 the stale RE formula, jaw-dropping graphics, gripping and sweaty-palm inducing gameplay, awesome 
 boss battles -- are back and they're better than ever thanks to the Wii.
  
  Since most of you already know what Resident Evil 4's story is about, I'll be brief. You play as 
 US secret agent, Leon S. Kennedy and you're sent on a mission to save the President's daughter, 
 Ashely Graham. The story isn't all that great, but it's solid. And throw anything plot-related 
 from past Resident Evil games out. It's a shock to be sure, especially for fans who were with the 
 series since its inception, but the series as a whole benefits from this reboot because Resident 
 Evil 4 starts with a clean slate and leaves its convoluted past.
  
  Now then, since we're done with that, let's go into why this version rocks so hard. The Wii edition 
 brings the best of many worlds. First off, you have the new and improved controls. All of Resident 
 Evil 4's mechanics from the GC and PS2 version have basically been unaltered, except for the new 
 precision aiming the Wii remote offers. You'll use the remote to point and shoot, and you'll use 
 the analog stick to move your cone of vision. Pointing and shooting is a snap and the controls 
 are so precise and fluid, it's hard to go back. This does make the game inherently easier as a 
 result and the new cursor that glows red when you draw a bead on a target is a little too much, 
 considering how the aiming controls make shooting loads easier in the first place. Nonetheless, 
 the game still provides a hefty challenge, and you will die on your first run. Guaranteed!
  
  There are more enhancements, like the way the knife is handled. Now, you can use the knife 
 with a simple shake of your remote. What's even better is how Leon automatically locks on and slashes 
 a nearby point of interest. Whether it's a crate or a pissy villager, Leon will turn to whatever 
 can be slashed and will proceed with the slashing. This simple enhancement is very welcome and 
 it just feels so intuitive and logical that once again, it's hard to go back. All the other Wii 
 gameplay features come in the way of waggle. Quick-time events will sometimes use the waggle. For 
 example, shaking off villagers will have you shaking your remote. It's a small thing, but it does 
 make these events just a tad more intense and it's a welcome feature. All in all, the Wii controls 
 are superior to the GC and PS2 in nearly every conceivable way and it improves this already phenomenal 
 game. For further proof, you can plug in a GC controller and play, only to find out how goddamn 
 archaic it feels compared the Wii controls.
  
  While the gameplay has been touched up considerably, the visuals have been virtually untouched. 
 Besides the fact that this version can do 16:9 and 480p both at the same time, the visuals are 
 essentially from the GC build. Resident Evil 4 was a preview to how great next-gen games can look 
 and even though many games have surpassed the visual bar it set, Resident Evil 4 is still a fantastic-looking 
 game. The textures have suffered a bit and aliasing issues still exist, but its art, level and 
 enemy designs still have a tendency to drop jaws. The sound, on the other hand, hasn't suffered 
 one bit and still has one of the best sound design in the business. Shotgun blasts are still insanely 
 satisfying to the ears and the gory sound of head caps will make you sit back with satisfaction. 
 The voice-acting is still charmingly goofy, but it does undermine the seriousness the game's story 
 tries to establish.
  
  All of this comes with the extras the PS2 and PC version had. Ada's "Seperate Ways" side-missions 
 add a substantial amount of playtime for players who haven't tried it. It runs parallel to Leon's 
 own journey and it explains a lot of story elements. All the cool costumes that were exclusive 
 to the PC and PS2 make their way here also. The new costumes do change the gameplay to some degree. 
 Ashely's armored suit makes her impervious to attacks, which makes taking care of her a bit easier. 
 These extras gives this game a huge boost in value, and for GC owners who never experienced all 
 the cool extras from the PC and PS2 versions will have a lot to dig through.
  
  
  When it comes down to it, anyone who owns a Wii should buy Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition. If you 
 own the GC version, the new Wii controls and extras that were exclusive for other platforms are 
 worth the purchase. If you own the PS2 version, the Wii controls offer a fresh and better experience 
 and the visuals are slightly sharper. If you own the PC version, well, you better get this one 
 because you'll now understand why everyone thinks Resident Evil 4 rules. And if you're in some 
 small, stupid minority that hasn't played this classic yet, stop being dumb and pick this one up. 
 It's one of the best action games of all time and that still holds true today. Resident Evil 4 
 redefined the survival-horror genre and it defined a generation of action games. There's really 
 nothing quite like Resident Evil 4, too. It's pacing, tensity and gameplay are unique and stick 
 out in this now crowded market. Oh and did you know the Wii edition is priced at a generous $30? 
 There's no excuse now, pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Braddick
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 1:19 am PT
Review:  ever since this game came out on gamecube ive wanted it. but living in a 1 console house with an 
 xbox kind of cramped that, so for a long time i put it out of my mind, but it was always there. 
 so finally, wen my rents agreed to buy me a wii, i rushed out to buy this game as well.
  at first i thought that the control scheme would be a problem. at the time i wasnt completely sold 
 on that 1 analogue stick control scheme and thought that i should buy a gamecube controller to 
 go with it. good for me i ran out of money b4 i could do that. the controls are tight and responsive 
 and during the entire game i never found that i was saying "this would be better with a gamecube 
 controller". even if you hate the controls there is still the option to let you use the gamecube 
 controller.
  the graphics are alright. they were great in 2005 or wenever it came out and they still hold up 
 today, but simply i own an xbox 360 as well and after seeing call of duty 4 playing on a high def 
 TV its hard to rate any other graphics high.
  the story is great. ive never found a game b4 that would keep me playing JUST because of the story, 
 but this ones special i guess. though it was kinda lacking in plot twists and has a fairly straightfoward 
 storyline, it is still more then interesting enough to keep ppl engaged.
  the over the shoulder gameplay is great and works surprising well with the controls. this game 
 also featurs several sh*t your pants moments, especially towards the end with those regenerators 
 = [. however these add to the immersion and they never feel forced or lame.
  so this game is great so go buy it if you dont have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaldePartison
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2007 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Every gamer today must have played this game at least once. Be on the GC or in the PS2. Many of 
 these that played must have a copy of the game. But, is it worth to spend more money on a game 
 that you own again? Read all the review to find out.
  
  In Resident Evil 4, players took control of Leon, a survivor from Raccon City from Resident Evil 
 2. After the events of Resident Evil 2, Leon became a government agent. Right in Leon first mission, 
 he had to rescue the president daughter, Ashley Graham, who was kidnapped and took to a village 
 in Europe. But Leon soon realizes that the village isnt the best place to spent a vacation. The 
 villagers attack Leon with everything they have in hand. From an axe to a pitchfork, Leon was chased 
 by the village populance, who carried a no number of weapons, everything they could use, during 
 his whole mission. Leon never knew why they wanted his head or why they kidnapped Ashley, but one 
 thing he knew: ''These are not zombies''.
  
  This was the story from the Resident Evil that was originally on the GC, and later on the PS2. 
 While the PS2 had worse graphics and sound, it had some extras. The Resident Evil 4 from the PS2 
 had a new mission system, where players took control of Ada, named Separate Ways, a new weapon, 
 the P. R. L. 412, and the movie browser.
  
  The wii-edition of Resident Evil 4 is basically the PS2 version with the GC version improved graphics 
 and sound, what mean youll finally be able to play separate ways with the quality it deserves. 
 But, in top of that, the control scheme is superior. Aiming with the wii-mote feels incredible. 
 Its faster, easier and better to aim this way. If it wasnt enough, the game also allows you to 
 use the knife by shaking the wii-mote. This new knifing system ( now called quick-knifing ) is 
 something that works so well, that its hard to believe how could CAPCOM not think of it before. 
 The quick-knifing will ''aim'' for you, meaning that, if an enemy is on floor, you knife exactly 
 where he is, making not only killing foes but breaking crated and boxes easier.
  
  But now lets see each point of this amazing game.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Many complained with 
 CAPCOM because this version features exactly the same graphics from the GC version, when the wii 
 was capable of more. But they forgot something, RE4 offers some nice graphics ( at least theyre 
 better than Zelda Twilight Princess graphics ) to a plataform like the wii, that want to bring 
 a more immersive gameplay over realistic graphics. Dont be afraid, this game is absolutely gorgeous, 
 and, since many play Zelda Ocarina of Time with those old polygonal graphics, here we see some 
 beautiful environments, that are still beautiful, even if theyre 3 years old.
  
  SOUND
  
  Very nice. From the enemies chants to the voice-work of the main characters, everything sounds 
 well. A cool feature is that the reloading sounds and weapons bullet sounds comes from the wii-mote 
 speaker, what feels very nice. The background music adds some sense of claustrophobia. The enemies 
 will say things like ''an outsider'' or ''kill him!''. This feature is great because it helps you 
 to enter in the ''Resident Evil 4 world''. No complaints with the sounds. The game looks great, 
 and sounds great too.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  This is where this game shines. You wont notice any difference in the game interface until youre 
 playing the true game. This means no pointer in the menus, in the inventory screen or in the merchant 
 menu. These are all controlled by the nunchuck analog stick. The inventory screen will take some 
 time to be used as well as it should. But it wont take as long as you think. When you notice, 
 youll be using your herbs very fast in the middle of a boss battle. But, this isnt important. 
 What really matters is basically the true fighting. Using guns, knifes and even the rifle is better. 
 Every gun ( except the rifle and the rocket launcher ) aim. To aim hold down B, to fire your weapon 
 press A. That simple. Another thing different from the original scheme is that now, the camera 
 and the aim will move independently from each other. Move the camera with the analog stickwhile 
 aiming. To reload, shake the wii-mote ( or press down on the D-pad ) while aiming. To use the knife, 
 shake the wii-mote for the quick-knifing or hold c for the standard knife. To run, hold Z. The 
 gameplay is easy and fun to use. If, what may not happen, you dislike this new control scheme, 
 you can use a GC controller. Everybody happy. This control scheme works so well, that the game 
 seems to be a bit easier, when its not. Easily, better than anything youve played before. 
  
  LENGTH
  
  The main game isnt too short, nor its too big. If you take your time, you may 
 finish it in 20 - 30 hours. The Separate Ways is short, may take from 4 to 7 hours. But, youll 
 unlock one mini-game after you finish the game that will keep you busy for a long time. The called 
 Mercenaries mode is all about killing ganados, what is the cool thing of the game. The game length 
 is all right, nothing special, but still bigger than any other game in the genre
  
  REPLAY VALUE
  
  Theres a lot to do and to see after you finish the main game. You can play 
 again with all the itens you had from your first run, you have the mercenaries, you have the Separate 
 Ways and you have a good reason to play the game all over again: its fun
  
  GRAPHICS: The game is gorgeous. Everything is detailed, still could have been better.
  9,5
 
  
  SOUND: Very good. CAPCOM wanted everything to look and sound well. And they made it.
  10
  
  GAMEPLAY: Perfect. If you dislike it, you can still use a GC controller.
  10
  
 
  LENGTH: The main game is big, and there are a lot of extras. This wil take time to be finished 
 completely.
  
  OVERALL SCORE: 10
  10
  
  REPLAY VALUE: You can replay the whole game with the same itens. Just this is enough to keep anyone 
 happy, but thers even more.
  10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: siddious33
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 31, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  I know I will be in the minority here, apparently, but the new Wii control system RUINS this game. 
 Essentially, they have taken one of the greatest games of all time, albeit with a pretty poor control 
 scheme, and made the controls worse.
  
  I was really excited to play this game again, but I have only put in about 20 minutes of effort 
 on it and I will be returning it. What an absolutely TERRIBLE control scheme! Also, it seems the 
 collision detection is off since sometimes you get a hit and sometimes you don't. After playing 
 this game for about 20 minutes with my best friend we actually went out and bought a used Gamecube 
 copy so we could play this game with a halfway decent control scheme. 
  
  Just find a used copy for the Gamecube and enjoy one of the best games of all time. Avoid this 
 thing at all costs. Great game; horrible controls just ruin it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaJesus232
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  There's a very good chance that you've already played Resident Evil 4 on the GameCube or PlayStation 
 2 (or, heaven forbid, the PC) . Yet the best games are worth playing through all over again. Not 
 only does RE4 itself remain a heart-pounding thrill ride and a modern classic, but the Wii Remote 
 and Nunchuk controls breathe new life into a game that is still a treat to play, two years after 
 release.
  
  
  If by some miracle of chance you haven't played Resident Evil 4 yet, you've got some catching up 
 to do. You play as Leon S. Kennedy, a secret agent in charge of recovering the president's kidnapped 
 daughter. His search leads to a creepy Spanish village whose residents are, well, not quite lucid. 
 The story drops the occasional clich, but for the most part, it avoids the usual horror pratfalls 
 to deliver an interesting, intense narrative with a number of fascinating characters. It's also 
 genuinely creepy, leading you through abandoned farmhouses, dank churches, and dripping caves, 
 all the while throwing progressively weirder and stronger enemies at you. Like the PS2 version, 
 it also includes a side story called Separate Ways, where you take control of spy Ada Wong and 
 explore some of the same storyline from her perspective. Unfortunately, the Wii version doesn't 
 include any new, exclusive content.
  
  At its core, this is the same Resident Evil 4 that multitudes of players have grown to appreciate. 
 It's a carefully paced, often breathtaking action game that keeps you on the edge of your seat 
 with lumbering almost-zombies, chanting cultists, and challenging fights against gargantuan bosses. 
 You view the action from a third-person view, and when you ready a weapon, the camera zooms in 
 close. Once you've drawn your weapon, you can't walk, but you can aim. It all feels very deliberate, 
 but it's perfectly countered by the measured speed at which your enemies approach you. However, 
 you shouldn't take this to mean that the action is any less exciting than in a traditional shooter. 
 These are dangerous foes, and you've got to pump them full of lead before they fall.
  
  The fundamental combat is where the game shines most. Your arsenal consists of pistols, shotguns, 
 rifles, and more, with every weapon producing credible results. Popping pitchfork-wielding villagers 
 will cause them to drop their weapons. Or you can shoot them in the knees to make them momentarily 
 fall to the ground. Because ammunition isn't plentiful, being able to handle a crowd of shambling 
 psychopaths with as few shots as possible is a main priority. You've always got a knife as a last 
 resort, but unless you want to take a chunk of damage, it's better to keep your distance.
  
  But what makes this release so special are the subtle differences wrought by the version's 
 definitive controls. Movement and turning are controlled using the Nunchuk's analog stick, and 
 you enter aiming mode by using the remote's B button. But the most noticeable improvement is in 
 aiming your weapon. The laser sight has been replaced with an actual reticle that you fully control 
 with the remote, which gives you more mastery over where your shots land. It's absolutely intuitive, 
 more so than the original scheme, but you shouldn't take this to mean that Resident Evil 4 on the 
 Wii is a cakewalk. You will notice an increase in your hit percentage, but hordes of Spanish not-zombies 
 and gigantic boss battles are as nerve-wracking as ever. Granted, there is a subtle softening of 
 the difficulty level due to the greater degree of control. Yet the newfound fluidness in the gunplay 
 is a welcome adjustment, and the controls still contribute to the deliberate pace.
  
  Other changes are just as welcome. Getting your knife to find its mark is a lot easier thanks to 
 an auto-aim function that makes melee attacks land on the nearest available target. You can still 
 use a more familiar control scheme by holding C and pressing A to slash, but even better, you can 
 waggle the remote to do it. The same is true of reloading: You can enter aiming mode and push down 
 on the D pad to do it, or wave the remote. The famous context-sensitive actions are still a hallmark 
 of the experience, and the addition of the motion sensing makes them feel fresh again. The end 
 result of all these improvements, both subtle and obvious, is a logical and comfortable control 
 scheme that makes perfect sense and heightens your immersion.
  
  Resident Evil 4 sounds as fantastic as ever. It's a sonic spookfest, from the creepy minimalist 
 soundtrack to the outstanding weapon effects. In fact, the most memorable aspects of the game are 
 accompanied by equally thrilling audio, such as the roar of the humongous bosses or the disturbing 
 murmurs of villagers as they infiltrate your personal space. But even here, the Wii version sneaks 
 in a small but notable enhancement, thanks to the remote speaker. Hearing the swoosh of the knife 
 and the clatter of reloading your shotgun emanate from your own hand sweetens an audio design that 
 was already practically perfect.
  
  RE4 on the Wii supports progressive scan and widescreen displays featuring beautifully designed 
 character models and environments that were obviously created with deliberate care and detail. 
 Of particular note are the boss characters, which get more vulgar and imposing as you progress. 
 But even the minor details are impressive, such as flocks of crows that flutter away as you approach 
 or the way flames flicker realistically. And unlike the PS2 and PC versions, which used prerendered 
 cutscenes, the engine renders them in real time here, making the scenes look more natural.
  
  RE4 is just as impressive no as it was 2 years ago when it was first released on the GameCube, 
 which in my mind makes Wii version even more dazzling. It is undoubtedly the preferred version 
 for anyone who has yet to experience the thrill of climbing up El Gigante's back, and even if you 
 already have had such an experience in the past, this iteration is still most certainly worth playing. 
 The exquisite controls make this the defining Wii action title and a must-play for anyone who enjoys 
 the act of shooting things.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidgame17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 3:30 am PT
Review:  I have played all the Resident Evil 4 versions, execpt the computer, and played the ps2 and beat 
 it so many times i had everything unlocked. Even with the game having already been out for 3 years, 
 the Wii version is still a great game. Now its fun using the wii remote to aim and shoot zombies 
 and everything. the graphics for the system are supurb, the controls are great, i just thought 
 the game was a little dim at times, so when your in a dark room you cant always see around or infront 
 of you if there is light in the room your playing in. The other let down is that there is no new 
 content. After being the 4 version of the game, you would think that they would bring out somthing 
 new, like making the presidents daughter have to fight her way out or somthing. But otherwise this 
 game is a must get for your wii collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sahil29
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  When you begin the game, you already become familiar with the controls and thats one of the great 
 parts. 
  
  The gameplay is exciting, when you feel you've killed someone, think again, they will get up and 
 attack you again, dont under-estimate these zombies =D
  The graphics are exquisite and phenominal. You immediately feel as if its real life. 
  
  I 
 would reccomend this game for anyone who has the Wii its a must have game. Don't have any second 
 thoughts for this title, its the best in the RE series. 
  
  For the difficulty it is easy to grasp and will become familiar to anyone within a few minutes 
 of gameplay. For best results i suggest you shoot some birds when you first start in the woods. 
 
  
  Summary- Buy this game, its a must have for a wii owner and is easy to understand with gameplay, 
 controls etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djdevon101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 11:40 pm PT
Review:  if you have played the resident evil games this is the best one so far, ive beaten the game a couple 
 of times and when you beat it it gives you more game modes so you dont get bored, in the main game 
 the story takes place in a village but instead of battlng zombies, you fight parasitic people that 
 talk and are more civilized, over the game you go through differnt places which bring different 
 difficulties, the first time i played this it took me about 2 weeks to beat but that was playing 
 it almost everyday, ive just started playing the umbrella chronicles and resident evil 4 is far 
 better, this game is harder in some parts because the bosses are more complex, but over the game 
 you can buy weapons and upgrade them, you can also sell items youve found to merchants for money 
 overall this game is awesome and youll never get bored of it, i recommend it to any gamer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dungeonboss
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 11:17 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the best games on the Gamecube when it originally came out. Once again, considering 
 the mass of garbage "casual" games being brought to the Wii, this game stands out even more. Here's 
 my review:
  
  Gameplay- Even if you own the original GC or PS2 version, the Wii edition gives a completely different 
 and new sense of urgency. Also, if you owned the GC version, you'll get your first chance to explore 
 some of the new side material introduced to the PS2 and PC. The Wii control scheme works great 
 and honestly feels like RE4 belonged on the Wii in the first place. If you've never played the 
 game before, be warned. This game is very violent and bloody and head come squirting off left and 
 right. You'll see mutated bodies ripped up in all sorts of demented ways, and if you're a fan of 
 the Resident Evil series, that's a good thing. Definitely not the game I'd buy for a 10 year old 
 though. But if you can get past the graphic violence, its got a pretty decent story line and brings 
 up an interesting new side to the Resident Evil saga. 
  
  Graphics- This game featured beautiful, realistic graphics when it first came out, and the Wii 
 edition, although not really making any graphical changes (except in the user interface of course) 
 is still breathtaking. The dark color palette really suites the twisted vibes of the game. 
  
  Sound- Simply stated, the music fits perfectly with the different areas and builds up and calms 
 down very effectively to set the mood. The voice acting, though a little cheesy at times, is pretty 
 decent and definitely better than previous games in the RE series. Sorry no "Jill Sandwiches" this 
 time... The main cake in the sound comes from the freakish beings you'll encounter throughout the 
 levels. Especially if you've got some decent Dolby Pro Logic going around, you might find yourself 
 a little jumpy when you're in a room full of baddies. Mmmm... That is some mighty good cake.
  
  Value- You MUST play this game more than once. It's THAT good. Once you beat the game the first 
 time, several new missions and play modes appear, plus some other nifty little bonuses. Playing 
 through the second time has a completely different feel than the first. So replay value is definitely 
 there.
  
  If you've never played Resident Evil 4 and own a Wii, it would be wrong to not pick yourself up 
 a copy of this fantastic game, especially when it comes with a price tag of about $30.00 (US) MSRP. 
 It easily (and sad to say) one of the best on the Wii, much less of most games to come out in the 
 past 3 years on ANY console. If you've already played it in a previous carnation, at that price, 
 you still can't go wrong. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reload-damnit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Whilst being an enjoyable game, especially with the uniqueness the Nintendo Wii brings to it, Resident 
 Evil 4 was very dissapointing. As a fan who enjoys the zombie stereotype, this game initially dissapointed 
 me with its lack of tactical headshots. When i began to overlook that negativity, my main concern 
 in the game was not to survive (as would have made more suspensive, immersed gameplay) but to conserve 
 ammo. 
  
  Whilst not enough to comdemn the game, these small facts made it much less enjoyable than it could 
 otherwise have been. However, I did enjoy musing to what was wrong with the villagers in the game, 
 and I and my roomate have concluded that in fact there is nothing 'wrong' with the villagers. Perhaps 
 that is what spaniards are actually like?
  
  I look forward to more resident evil/zombie games on the wii, the two seem a perfect match, but 
 it is a pretty it wasn't 'meant to be' in this situation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gandalf5000
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  I was slightly skeptical about this game before i had played it. Having played and not enjoyed 
 some of the previous Resident Evil games i diddent know if it would be worth it. I decided to rent 
 it one day and quickly became addicted to its awesome gun fights and horror survival genera that 
 this series is so good at. The difficulty was kinda hard but I'm not complaining, I cant wait to 
 beat it on the Professional setting.
  
  
  The graphics are nice and sharp. I really enjoyed the environments and level design. Nice open 
 areas for you to explore and look for any kind of goodies or clues that will help you advance to 
 the next room or area your trying to get to. 
  
  
  The controls are very tight and responsive, did not have many problems in this department. I was 
 so comfortable after playing this game i was flicking the wii-mote to reload when playing other 
 shooters. The motion gestures the game offers aren't completely interesting and remind me of button 
 mashing at times. Kind of like Twilight Princess, but keep in mind both games were originally game 
 cube games and the wii version serves as a port (the fact that there both very good ports cancels 
 out this weak point) . 
  
  
  Story-wise, i thought this game was pretty interesting, one of the only Resident Evil games that 
 i actually read through all of the files and information they give you about stuff that doesent 
 really matter. The story traps you in and keeps you guessing/wondering what is going to happen 
 next, which motivates you to continue playing hours and hours into it until the end.
  
  Cut scenes look awesome and the voice acting is not as cheesy as you might expect. No repetitive 
 character chatter, which is awesome since games tend to have characters that love talking to themself. 
 The sound is awesome as well, especially in 5.1 on a big screen in the dark with the volume bumped 
 up. 
  
  
  Its hard to think of any strong negatives for this game, besides the fact that some levels seem 
 overwhelmingly hard (i tend to enjoy this) . altho some parts leave you kind of guessing as to what 
 you have to do, which really forces you to figure things out. Some trial and error does and will 
 occur that tends to give you the feeling that you either suck at the game, or need to know what 
 to do before you do it in order to get past the objective. 
  
  over all this game is awesome for any fan of RE or fans of games that really push you to your limit 
 as to how long you can survive. Using items wisley and conserving ammunition is a must in order 
 to have fun and enjoy the game, unless you enjoy being low on ammo and always dying because you 
 ate your herbs every time your health was lowered slightly, then wasted all your ammo shooting 
 already dead zombies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eolfson
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  It is undeniable that many of the games out there don't turn out as well on the Wii as they do 
 on the other consoles on the market today, but Resident Evil 4 is definitely not one of those games. 
 Do to the fact that the Wii controls are absolutely nothing like what we've seen before; there 
 aren't many games out there that they work flawlessly with. RE4 was made its debut on the Gamecube 
 where it earned high ratings and lots of love from reviewers all around. Then, two and a half years 
 later it came out for the Wii. The ratings were a bit lower, but not because it is a lower quality 
 game, but because we had played it before. I don't agree with this at all though, because believe 
 me; you've played nothing like it. 
  From a graphical standpoint RE4 looks about like it did on the previous releases for the GC and 
 PS2. But this is not by any means a bad thing. Everything in RE4 looks incredible. The environments 
 are not only as spooky as they can get, they have a very high sense of realism to them. The game 
 takes place in different parts of a nasty little village, so unlike many games, you never really 
 feel that were you are could never actually exist. Blood animations are another impressive aspect 
 RE4 brings to the table. The exploding heads, chainsaw decapitations, and the spatter your gunshots 
 leave make you cringe every time you see them. As a result your kills make you feel all the more 
 dominant, but your deaths bring you to a new low. There just isn't any aspect of RE4's presentation 
 that you can say anything negative about. 
  The games stunning visuals are also nicely complimented by a great soundtrack. The music does a 
 great job of adding to the horrors of the game, and it helps RE4 live up to all of its predecessors. 
 And don't worry, the relieving feeling of when you get to a typewriter is just as memorable as 
 it always has been. Typewriters are where you will save you game, but thankfully they haven't brought 
 back the requirement of using ink ribbons to save your progress, so you can feel free to save your 
 game as much as your heart desires. The music when you access a typewriter really takes you away 
 from the intensity of the game, and is a nice spot to take a break. So for best RE4 results, sit 
 back, turn up the volume, and enjoy.
  But what really sets this game away from its parallels on the GC, PS2, and PC is the gameplay, 
 specifically the controls. To control Leon (the games main character) you will have to utilize 
 both your Wii-mote and Nun-Chuck attachment. Your basic movement (forward, backward, turning) is 
 controlled by the joystick on the Nun-Chuck. Pushing the stick forward will move you forward, backward 
 results in backpedaling, and pushing it to at side angles will cause Leon to run in those directions. 
 Because there is only one joystick on this setup you will not have to option to move the camera 
 like in most FPS games. As a result, the camera will always remain behind Leon while you are playing. 
 The only other thing that the Nun-Chuck is used for is pulling off a quick 180 turns, and 
 pulling out your knife. The 180 turn is done by pulling the top button on the back of the 
 Nun-Chuck and pushing backwards on the joystick at the same time. This becomes extremely useful 
 when you are in the middle of a big fight and need to get away from the cluster of enemies. Equipping 
 your knife is done by simply pressing down the bottom button on the back of the Nun-Chuck, holding 
 it down, and swinging the Wii-mote. But this doesn't end up being very useful because you don't 
 really need to use your knife unless you are breaking a pot (or some other container) , or quickly 
 hacking at an enemy because the gun you have equipped has run out of ammo. And when either of these 
 two scenarios occurs it is much easier and makes a lot more sense to use the weak knife swing, 
 which is done by just swinging the Wii-mote sideways. Every other control is done with the Wii-mote. 
 The  button pulls up your menu, + is used to call Ashley or have her wait (rescuing her is the 
 games objective) , 1 opens your map, 2 brings up options, the B trigger draws your weapon, and A 
 is used to shoot your gun, or activate things like doors. The controls are really where this game 
 proves it worth though. It really makes it a lot easier to feel like you are in the game when you 
 are shooting because you aim your crosshair by pointing the Wii-mote at the screen. So basically 
 RE4 gives you the thrill of an arcade shooter, but an engrossing, in-depth, and long story at the 
 same time. 
  Another thing that makes RE4 more than worth your money is all of the extras that come with it. 
 There are several different mini-game type extras that are available to play. The most entertaining 
 of these extras is the Mercenaries game. In The Mercenaries you will start with one playable character, 
 Leon. There are 4 stages available to play. After you play a stage you will receive a score, which 
 is calculated by the number of kills, and a few other things like killing streaks and bonuses. 
 You will receive both a number score, and a score out of 5 stars. Once you are awarded a 4 star 
 rating on a stage, you will receive a new character to play. There are 5 characters you will end 
 up having as options. And if you really have a lot of free time on your hands you can go for 5 
 stars on every level with every character. If you can do this you receive an unstoppable force 
 for the campaign. 
  Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition has so much content, and is so revolutionary, it is well worth anyone's 
 time. As said in many other reviews, even if you have played or even own RE4 on another platform, 
 it is worth buying RE4: Wii Edition. I guarantee you will not be let down by this game. The replay 
 value is there too. Once you play it through once, you will be able to play on professional mode, 
 or just a second round through. If you select professional mode you will be in for a ride, as the 
 game becomes seemingly impossible at some times. There are more enemies, and they are a lot harder 
 to take down. If you choose to play just a second round, you keep all of your weapons from the 
 last play through, and just tear up your enemies. Although there isn't as much replay value as 
 in some other games out there, there is more than most. So trust me, if you own a Wii, buy this 
 game. And while you're at it, read some of my other reviews! Thanks, 
  
  EO
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeGio7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  Well as I said on the review for RE4 for the GC, which is alittle bit of the same. Anyway this game 
 look's sweet and it really look's like I will have to get this when I do. I liked the GC version 
 and I know that this I will to. Anyway what I seen in this is that really this look's good. The Zapper 
 look's like the tool of choice and the grapic's are still terriffic and the sound, weapon's and 
 gameplay. Really this look's like the only change's were that they combined the two, but that dos'ent 
 mean that it's bad, it's good and it's a must have for the Wii and I reallly can't wait to get it, I 
 will be really in to it when I do. Oh almost forgot, some of the additional thing's, like the custome's, weapon's, like 
 Leon be dressed like the 1930's Chicago gangster with the Tommy Gun and will be like this is strieght 
 from the top, those are sweet about it. I will talk more about the game when I get it, so sorry if 
 it seem's alittle boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mojo-X
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition is one of those games were you just have to say wow even if your not 
 into horror. The storyline is great and doesn't get boring. Being on the Wii makes it better than 
 any of the other previous platforms it has been on because you get to aim, slash and run away from 
 big scary beasties and boulders using the wii remote. The play time is worth your money as well 
 even after you finish the game you will have a fair few extras to finish which should increase 
 your game life even longer.
  
  The story basically is the presidents daughter has been kidnapped by a cult and you have to go 
 save her (more then once) fighting your way through many different monsters with a great selection 
 of guns and your knife.
  
  In the game theirs plenty to do other than kill zombies though most of its based round shooting 
 .It includes some good puzzles, a few times were can hunt for treasure and get money to upgrade 
 your guns and it also has a fun shooting range to win yourself some prizes. 
  
  The game is fantastic and is loved by anyone who plays it and remember even if your someone who 
 is not into horror this game is still worth checking out. The parts that do frighten you just make 
 it even better
  PLAY ON!!!! XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rammaster2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  The first time I played this I was a little scared. Because of the thought of hundrous armies of 
 zombies coming towards and I, meaning me who is easily frightened with zombies popping out of nowhere, 
 have to shoot with my own hands. At the first level I got killed especially DR. SALVADOR chopping 
 my head off with his fancy chainsaw. But as I got along the levels it became oneof the most fun 
 game I ever played.
  The controls are well-done. I'm a little against the controls as B for aim and A button to shoot. 
 I'drathjerhave it switched. But the controls are pretty good. There's also sections of the game 
 when you have to do specific actions to avoid or do attacks. Such actions are pressing particular 
 buttons, waving the wii remote.
  The graphics are just fine. No problem in that area.
  As for the story heres just a brief know-how on what's the games about:
  The presidents daughter, 
 Ashley Graham, is kidnapped by a strange cult and Leon S. Kennedy is sent to rescue her. When Leon 
 gets to the spanish villagein which he is sent he quickly learns that people here aren't normal.
 
  That's just a brief summary okay.
  You'll meet alotofcharacters and especially a pretty little lady in a red dress.
  When you finish 
 the games you'll unlock extras and a mini-quest called Seperate Ways in which you see what Ada 
 did behind the scenes. that's about it. Resident Evil 4is basically a great game.
  
  Note:
  Ashley's HOT!!! And Ada too. And Hunnigan. All girls in resident evil 4 is hot but not 
 the villagers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnDW
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  This game has a bunch of moments where your heart will be pumping. The game is set in a Spanish 
 village and is really creepy. You are Leon Kennedy, and you are sent to the village to find out 
 who has kidnapped the US Presidents daughter. The gameplay is great and you have a behind the back 
 view which works great. The controls are better than any dual analog could do - you can aim perfectly.
 
  
  Graphics are last gen unfortunately but they are good enough to convey a sense of oh snap when 
 you face a giant zombie like creature. The music is atmospheric most of the time but when you are 
 in a boss battle it will change to a more action-like type of music. The monsters growls are great 
 and the sound of you blowing their face off with a shotgun is even better.
  
  There is a variety of weapons which you can occassionally pick up, but mostly you will buy it all 
 from an annoying dude who somehow never gets mauled by 'rabid' dogs or chainsawed in half by angry 
 villagers, even though he is in practically every level.
  The inventory system is good and you can pretty much access everything quickly. You can even pick 
 up drugs from the villagers and store them in there along with your guns and grenades, so that 
 you can take it back to America. You can heal up with 'green herb'... I think this one slipped 
 past the ERSB.
  
  Unfortunately the developers decided that, to make the game 'challenging' they would make it hard 
 to find ammo. You can't even buy it from the creepy arms dealer that holds a rocket launcher, a 
 pistol a revolver a shotgun, a sniper rifle and much more under his damn jacket. This DOES NOT 
 make the game more tense and spooky - just really annoying. The game lasts quite a while. You'll 
 probably finish it in about 10 hours if you really rush through it, but it's very possible to go 
 even longer on the harder difficulty - you'll probably want to beat those memorable bosses again! 
 There is bonus content too which is pretty cool.
  
  The Wii version of Resident Evil 4 is the only version I've played, but a bit of research shows 
 that this version has everything from both the PS2 and GC versions. So this is the best version 
 - the controls are superior and you'll quickly get the hang of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ra-Qin
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 5:23 am PT
Review:  First things first. I love Resident Evil; the movies, the games... they are all fun in their B-movie 
 way. Maybe it's just me, but playing RE4 on the Wii was an awful experience. I don't usually dislike 
 something so much I have to say it, but it seems the whole G-Spot community loves it, and I can't 
 figure out why? If it is the story, can someone just send me the Cliff's Notes? Better yet, I will 
 give the PC version a spin.
  
  I thought the aiming system was nicely done, but everything else was soooo clunky. While playing 
 the initial village scene, I felt like I was a rat in a maze with no peripheral vision... almost 
 like I had blinders on. About a half-hour into the game I had to quit... I couldn't see dragging 
 myself through the experience for goodness-knows how many hours.
  
  Clearly I am in the minority on this one, but I had to speak up for all those who really didn't 
 like it, but couldn't bring themselves to say so.
  
  ... time for more Mario Galaxy
  
  Sorry y'all,
  RQ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samiup
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  this game is really enjoyable and addictive sometimes very scary but thats ok it is M rated after 
 all.
  
  the good :
  - good story makes you always wanna go ahead and see more.
  - intuitive and brain challenging puzzles all along the game .
  - treasures / treasure map give 
 you an extra push to explore more and deeper.
  - weapon upgrading and enhancement is a very cool feature.
  - great sound effects.
  
  the 
 bad :
  - un-customizable controls, i wish i could change the firing button to B so i can use my wii zapper 
 comfortably.
  - as for most of wii games, the graphics stink big time comparing to todays games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5_LD_5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 is a very special game that allows you to fear for your life. It is definitely 
 an amazing survival game and the best I've played. You play the game as Leon S. Kennedy, a cop 
 searching for the Presidents daughter, Ashley. Ashley had been kidnapped and taken to Raccoon City. 
 You play the game in this mysterious Raccoon City in search for Ashley. Eventually you run into 
 zombies. The Zombies are not very hard to get by, a couple good shots in the head and there down. 
 After various encounters with the zombies you find Ashley. This is where the game gets interesting.
 
  
  Once you find Ashley the game really takes of as you are not only trying to save yourself but another 
 person which gives the game a nice challenge. The game picks up the pace and puts you against bigger 
 and harder enemies. This is probably the best part in the game, the enemies. They are so well designed 
 and very hard to defeat and they pretty much come in waves one after another.
  
  There is also a great selection of weapons to choose from. It is a very nice idea how you buy and 
 store your weapons. You buy your weapons from a creepy man named The Merchant. He appears randomly 
 throughout the game. Once you buy weapons and collect items you store them in your suitcase (which 
 you can buy 3 bigger sizes as the game progresses) . You can sort all the weapons/items in your 
 suitcase which is a nice function to have. So all in all this suitcase and merchant really work 
 and give the game a real creepy survival touch.
  
  The controls work very well in this game, the Wii version especially. Point the remote at the screen 
 and press 'A' to shoot. Shake the remote to reload and shake the nunchuk to use your knife. All 
 of the Wii controls work very, very well.
  
  So I recommend this game to anyone up for a challenge, up for a great adventure and up for a bloody 
 good time. This game is very bloody and full of gore; it deserves its M rating. I have to say that 
 the blood and gore is one of the best parts of the games. It will bother the little ones but it's 
 great for the older ones. If you're looking for a classic, adventure horror, survival game then 
 please get Resident Evil 4. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warheart1188
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 is one the best games out there. When it debuted for the Nintendo Gamecube in early 
 2005, it surprised everyone. The Resident Evil games in recent years had been lacking in what made 
 the originals so scary and engaging and RE 4 gave the franchise a new facelift. The Wii Edition 
 of RE 4 includes the revolutionary graphics and gameplay of the Gamecube version with the extra 
 content from the Playstation 2 port. So, it is THE complete experience. If you haven't played it, 
 the game is a 3rd-person shooter/survival horror game. If you don't know the story, you play as 
 Leon Kennedy, who you may remember from RE 2, and it's up to you to find the U. S. president's daughter 
 held captive somewhere in rural Spain. But, the townsfolk in the village where you end up in aren't 
 what they seem. They're not zombies, but something else. They're infected and they are vicious. 
 The gameplay is still solid and every moment is just chill-inducing. Using the Wii-Remote and Nunchuk, 
 you really fill in Leon's shoes. You aim and shoot with the Wii-Mote, move with the Nunchuk and 
 if you're in a tight spot, just wave the Nunchuk and you'll swipe your combat knife. The overall 
 feel of pointing and shooting takes awhile to adjust to, though, but once you get the feel for 
 it, you'll wonder why you ever played it with a regular controller before. All in all, the same 
 great game is here, the PS2 extras are here, the controls are solid, the presentation is amazing; 
 in short, we have a great game here. If you missed out on RE 4 the first time, there's no better 
 way to get into it than with this version. For only $29.99, it's a steal! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garrison_Ford
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  *** RESIDENT EVIL 4: WII EDITION ***
  
  THE GOOD 
  -Excellent graphics
  -Outstanding controls
  -Interesting story
  -Cool characters (Leon is awesome)
  -Good musical 
 score
  -Great sound effects
  -Cool mini games the extend the story
  -Challenging boss fights
  
  THE BAD
  -You can't move your character while shooting
  -You 
 can't strafe
  
  OVERVIEW
  Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition is an outstanding game for the Nintendo Wii. In this game you play 
 as Leon Scott Kennedy (from Resident Evil 2) in his mission is to save the President's daughter, 
 Ashley Graham. Now it has been six years since we first met Leon as a police officer on his first 
 day in Raccoon City during the zombie virus (T-virus) outbreak. Since then Raccoon City was destroyed 
 and the United States government found out that the Umbrella corporation was behind the Raccoon 
 City disaster and shut them down. So, for now it looks like Umbrella is gone. In the beginning 
 of the game Leon gets a lead on the where-abouts of Ashley which takes him to a rural part of Europe. 
 Apparently a religious cult called the Los Illuminados are involved in the kidnapping of Ashley. 
 One thing that you will notice about the game is that the villagers in this cult are not zombies 
 but they do act really weird. I wonder what it could be... You'll find out what is really going 
 on in this cult and meet some old friends along the way. The story for this game is very exciting 
 and will keep you on the edge of your seat the whole time. And of course since this is a Resident 
 Evil game, there are going to be some scary parts that will make you jump.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  One thing you'll notice right from the beginning is that the Resident Evil series finally went 
 away from the fixed camera angles, which made controlling your character a pain at times, and put 
 the camera over Leon's right shoulder. The third person view is a great new feature to the series. 
 There are a lot of great things about this game and one of them are the controls. The Wii Remote 
 does a nice job in aiming and shooting your guns. It will take a few minutes to get completely 
 comfortable with the controls but once you do you will realize that they are exceptional. For this 
 game you use the Wii Remote and Nunchuk to control your character. You move by using the analog 
 stick and you shoot your weapons by holding down the "B" button and using the pointer, on the Wii 
 Remote, to aim. Then you just press "A" to fire. To reload your weapon just hold down "B" and shake 
 the remote. However, there are some limitations to the game in that you can't strafe or move around 
 while aiming. This is annoying at times but you soon get use to this.
  
  As you progress through the game you will find different weapons to use like the sniper rifle, 
 shot gun and magnum. Another thing that is different about this game is that you will encounter 
 a lot more enemies but the plus side is that there is more ammo for you find. However, this doesn't 
 mean that you can go careless and not conserve ammo. When you kill enemies in RE4 they can drop 
 either gold, ammo or other items. Gold is very useful in this game because there is a traveling 
 merchant that follows you around and sets up shop in specific locations. Here you can purchase 
 new weapons, first aid sprays, and even upgrade the weapons you already own. Unfortunately, you 
 can't buy any ammo so, once again, conserve your ammo. As far as upgrading your current weapons, 
 you can upgrade the damage, reload time, clip capacity, etc... So if you really like using the 
 handgun you can beef it up a little to make it useful later on. Trust me, later on in the game 
 you will fight some really tough bosses and you will wish you had the better weapons.
  
  The mini games are lots of fun and one in particular, Mercenaries, really tests your skills in 
 this game. In the Mercenaries, you play as 5 different characters (one being Leon) and you have 
 to reach a certain score (by killing enemies) within a certain amount of time. The reward for getting 
 a 5 star rating with all characters is worth it, trust me! There are other mini games that you 
 can play in the main game and others that are considered extras outside of the main game and extend 
 the side story for one sub character in particular, Ada Wong.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics in-game and for the cut-scenes are excellent. You really get a good feel for roaming 
 around in a small rural village. The graphics also create a very eerie picture while you play the 
 game.
  
  SOUND
  Well it wouldn't be a Resident Evil game with out great sound effects and creepy music. Both are 
 top-notch in this game.
  
  CONCLUSION
  Resident Evil 4 is an outstanding Wii game with replay value. RE 4 went in a totally different 
 direction with the gameplay that has only enhanced the series. I would recommend this game to anyone 
 and anybody that was turned off by the other Resident Evil games because of the controls can rest 
 assured with RE4. And remember to conserve your ammo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdmalone
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  I have been a Resident Evil fan since PS1, and the game play has never been better. What's scarier 
 than zombies attacking? An entire town of intelligent zombies that have formed some crazy zombie 
 cult. 
  
  One of my favorite aspects of the series was, similar to the Silent Hill series, the parts walking 
 around exploring and solving puzzles, never knowing when some foul demon would rear its ugly head 
 for you to shoot.
  
  The Wii interface in ingenious, actually aiming like old school Duck Hunt, I love it. 
  
  All 
 in all the game is a great success and a must for fans of the series. The story line leaves a bit 
 to be desired, but the game play more than makes up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: incredibletlee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 is a near-perfect horror survival for the Nintendo Wii. It has good graphics and 
 extremely rich gameplay. The game harnesses the wii motion-sensitive controls and makes them feel 
 incredible! This game makes you wonder how you could have ever played this game without the motion-sensitive 
 controls. You play as Leon Kennedy, a US Secret Service agent who is sent to somewhere in Europe 
 to search for the president's kidnapped daughter. Along the way you battle possessed villagers, 
 giant monsters, and a really angry midget. With that said, the only bad thing i can say about the 
 game, is that i wish it would have never came out on the gamecube and ps2 because the wii version 
 to me, is so much more superior. In all, Resident Evil 4 is the first great horror game, shooting 
 game, and suspense game, on the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justin2009
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  This game is for sure the best resident evil so far, There is a nice selection of weaponry, and 
 the enemies are annoying, which makes shooting them all the better. Now for the bad things: 1: 
 There could be a little more items to have. 2: You cant buy ammo from the merchant, you must find 
 it, or upgrade ammo capacity. 3: The background music makes the game a lot less surprising, because 
 the music starts playing if there is an enemy around, and you know to watch out, i liked it some, 
 but i started to play with mute on to make it better, too bad i know where everyone is!!! Overall 
 this is an awesome game, and it only costs $30 brand new, its way worth the money!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warplane11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  This game truly is revolutionary. Just the control scheme alone makes the game. It is a third person 
 shooter with a behind you camera angle but when you go to shoot it goes to over the shoulder which 
 works really well. It truly is fantastic. Your Leon S. Kennedy from RE2 and you get sent to a remote 
 European village to search for the president's kidnapped daughter but on the way you find out that 
 the villagers are crazy. This is an amazing game with loads of unlockables. Even if you haven't 
 played any of the other Resident Evils you will still love this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UncleLev
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  I'd be lying if I said RE4 wasn't one of the best games I've played in a very long time.
  
  I was a bit worried after playing Dead Rising to death to go back and play Resident Evil, but RE4 
 definitely filled my thirst for blood and gore.
  
  I've been a fan of the series since the very first Resident Evil title, back in the days of the 
 corny b-movie style voice-overs and I'm happy to say Resident Evil is still keeping things fresh 
 but at the same time following a tried and tested formula.
  
  Long past are the days of the "you were almost a Jill sandwich" lines that had you laughing at 
 the incredibly lame dialog while you were supposed to be enveloped in a world of fear. Resident 
 Evil 4 has great voice acting which keeps the theme set just right.
  
  In the world of RE4, you start your adventure in a small European village tracking down the American 
 president's daughter, who reportedly has been kidnapped. You play the role of Leon Kennedy, our 
 lovely cop-for-a-day hero from Resident Evil 2. As the story progresses you meet up with an escaped 
 researcher by the name of Louis, and Ada (the "woman in red") returns to the cast as well. There 
 aren't many NPCs, but then again you don't want many in such a game that is supposed to create 
 the feeling of isolation and survival. Once you meet up with Ashley, the president's daughter, 
 things begin to get a little more difficult since you not only need to worry about staying alive, 
 but you need to make sure she doesn't die on you. If she does, it's game over. You do get to play 
 as Ashley for a very short period of time, but it is only to perform a few trivial tasks. Don't 
 even think about combat with her because all she can basically do is moan like a naughty little 
 school girl.
  
  Unlike recent RE games, you are not fighting zombies, but another sort of virus infected cult led 
 by the almighty Lord Saddler. Of course, Lord Saddler is not without his own minions you must deal 
 with throughout the course of the game, and dealing with them sometimes proves to be quite a challenge. 
 I was a bit surprised to discover that I had more trouble with a few boss fights than I did with 
 the final boss of the game.
  
  Fortunately, I felt the control to be very intuitive and since I am reviewing the Wii version of 
 this title, you of course depend greatly on the Wii Remote.
  
  A quick swing to the left or right with the remote will cause Leon to slash his knife, which fortunately 
 is a bit stronger than in some past RE games. Of course, you really don't use the knife all that 
 much unless you are really trying to conserve ammo.
  
  There are quite a range of weapons to pick throughout the game and each one comes with it's own 
 advantages and disadvantages. Not only do you have a wide range of weapons to choose from, but 
 you also have the opportunity to upgrade each of the weapons to increase it's firepower, firing 
 speed, reload time and capacity. The weapons are upgraded through a friendly Merchant who somehow 
 manages to get around quicker than lightning on your adventure. Not only can he upgrade your weapons, 
 but you can purchase new ones from him or even items such as First Aid Sprays from him with the 
 money you pick up from defeating monsters and bosses.
  
  Aiming is quite precise and lots of fun with the Wii Remote since you just need to hold the B button 
 down to aim your weapon and press A to fire it. Holding the B button and flicking your wrist will 
 reload the weapon - though I must admit to have swung my knife several times when I meant to reload 
 due to forgetting to hold B.
  
  The graphics are top notch for a Wii title. It's only a shame the Wii is not capable of high res 
 graphics since it felt like playing an original Xbox game at times. But, the game did what it could 
 to use the Wii to it's potential and almost never would drop in frame rate. The lighting affects 
 and textures were all great quality, but there were a few rare places where I felt that the textures 
 were a bit pixelated. Even so, it is the best looking Wii game I've seen so far, which makes it 
 a must see in it's own right.
  
  Fortunately, it is much more than eye candy it has a tremendous amount of game play to it. Unlike 
 recent RE games that could be completed in 2-3 hours, you will spend at least 15-20 hours completing 
 this one. There are quite a few secrets to discover and item customization even adds further to 
 the game play. Completing the game unlocks additional weapons to be purchased as well, and if you 
 are able to beat the game on the Professional difficulty you will receive a powerful weapon with 
 unlimited ammo free of charge. That's not even to mention the special costumes that get unlocked 
 for completing the adventure.
  
  Sound wise, it was superb. The music, when present, was very moody and set the scene perfectly 
 for whatever was to be going on at the moment. The sound effects were also top notch with unique 
 sounds for each gun. The blood splattering noises, monsters speaking to each other and voice acting 
 was all top quality.
  
  As I write this I am very stumped to come up with something that displeased me. It was a great 
 title all around and definitely worth all the money you will pay for it.
  
  
  Gameplay: (9) Lengthy adventure, unlockables, good plot and excellent control.
  
  Graphics: 
 (9) Excellent environments, good detail on all the characters faces and fluid and natural movements 
 among everything in the game.
  
  Sound: (10) Though not always present, the music was great at keeping the mood and pace, the voice 
 overs were top notch and the sound effects from every weapon were all excellent.
  
  Lasting appeal: (9) Much longer than the other Resident Evil games, with it's fair share of secrets 
 and unlockables to boot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John-08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Graphics - 10/10
  'WOW'
  
  One word. Amazing. IMO, the best the wii has seen to date, more blood, gore, brains and wait.. parasites? 
 than ever before. I knew this was a winner as soon as i saw it. Everything has improved from the 
 others just looks fantastic , real , on some level. It looks crisp and fresh to make you jump out 
 of your seat more than ever before. Genius
  
  Gameplay - 9.5/10
  'Quick reactions"
  
  Think fast. A new race of zombie-type enimies (los illuminados) are around and theyr'e more challanging 
 than ever. the game tests your abilties in so many ways shaking the wii remote rapidly can get you 
 out of lots off different situations eg - swimming away to not get eaten, doging axes and daggers, dodging 
 rolling boulders and climbing away from your death The wii remote acts as your very prescise aimer. There 
 isnt one fault in the game except at first the los illuminados members are really hard to kill, you 
 cant run and shoot (but that makes it harder and more fun :P) and the ending was kind of dissapointing 
 other than that this game fascinates me it will leave you shocked and terrified and dont think 
 it wont make you jump becuase sooner or later it will happen :D .It's the daddy of all wii shooters.
 
  
  Sound - 9.5/10
  'Scary as the rest of it'
  
  Chilling soundtrack to add to the tense atmosphere. Makes you know that somthing is going to happen 
 but when? Well thats the scary bit. Keep your wits about you and be prepared at all times.
  
  Overall - 10/10
  'Gaming masterpiece'
  
  Intense story, that will keep you playing for 
 a long time - not forgetting all the extra stuff you get after beating it .A definate must for 
 all wii gamers, maybe we'll see a Devil may cry wii edition capcom ? who knows ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dukenukem2
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  This gme has everything you would expect in a GOOD resident evil game.
  1. good graphics 2. good gameplay 3. scary things. When i play this gam i shake. Literally, i shake. 
 The game is fun when you get use to it. The suprising thing is there is no zombies. NO ZOMBIES? 
 ya thats right no zombies. It just possessed people who speak eurpoean. This game fells like your 
 really in a situation where you have to survive every fuckin thing that you see. The thing i didnt 
 like was, you couldnt se the wii zapper why? well it wsnt in stores so they didnt know, and didnt 
 update it. luckly the new resident evil lets you use it. Well i havent beaten it so i dont know 
 the ending, but im close. Anyways this game is great, sure hope their is a number 5. and resident 
 evil umbrella chronicles is not number 5, its just all the games put together and ts a first person 
 shooter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluesteel13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 i never had it on Gamecube or ps2 but now i have got it on the Wii, Graphics amazing, Features 
 amazing, Storyline amazing, Bosses amazing, Characters amazing and background music is amazing but 
 now i should go into detail.
  
  I have never seen Garaphics like this on the Wii before it is cool, Leon looks good and everything 
 else in the game looks good. The graphics can meet the expectations for the Ps3 probbaly because 
 it is that good.
  
  The storyline is simple in the begining of the game but then it starts to get complicated but for 
 me i understand it because i am not dum lol, basically the story is like this in simple style leon 
 is sent to Spain to find the presidents daughter (Ashley) there is a group of zombies called the 
 Los Eliminodos there king is saddler what they want to do is plague human bodys with injecting 
 eggs in their body so when they hatch they will pocess you, so Saddler wants his army to grow big 
 so that nothing can stop him.
  
  Every character has nearly got a secret identity like this woman her name is Ada Wong we dont get 
 to know much about her because people thought that she had died in the raccon incident but now 
 she is working for a some spy organization. There is also this
  other character his name is Luis Sera he sais that he used to be a former cop to Leon also there 
 is information that his grandfather used to live in the city where all of his started but Luis 
 dies by Lord Saddler.
  
  This game is creepy and Awesome
  
  COME ON 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Superb graphics, atmosphere, and revolutionary control setup, great use of the Wii, has 
 all the best parts of other ports
  
  The Bad: Graphics are starting to show age, nothing new, no downloadable content
  
  I played 
 RE4 to death on the PS2 and now I'm going to on the Wii. What makes the Wii version so much better 
 is that it uses the GameCube edition's graphics, the PS2 version's extra content, plus Wii specific 
 controls and mashes it together into on sweet combo. What's so cool about the controls is that 
 you can now control where the gun goes via the Wii mote and you control Leon/Ashley/Ada with the 
 C stick. This makes aiming so much easier than the gamepad. You can now use your knife with a quick 
 swipe of the Wiimote or you can still do it the hard way. My favorite feature is that RE4 uniquely 
 uses the Wiimote's bult in speaker. When you blow up heads, reload, shoot, jump, it all goes through 
 the speaker and it sounds great. Capcom really put effort into this port and tried making it somewhat 
 different. All the rest of RE4 is intact including the great story where Leon has to help rescue 
 the President's daughter from an evil Spanish cult, the iffy voice work is still here and so is 
 everything else. With 20 hours+ game play and the extra Ada missions your sure to spend loads of 
 time with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  I had never really been into the Resident Evil series before I played 4. There was so much hype 
 for it globally so I had to give it a shot. Resident Evil 4 got ported to the Wii recently a couple 
 of years after it's first debut on the GameCube. I never played the older ports so this was my 
 first time playing through RE4 and I must say, wow! If you haven't played Resident Evil 4 yet then 
 you're either crazy or simply underage. And it's not for the faint-hearted. This is a spoiler-free 
 review so anyone who hasn't even heard of this game can read this.
  
  THE GOOD
  A lot of extras to do after beating the main story, a lot of interesting puzzle, and pretty much 
 everything else.
  
  THE BAD
  Main story could have been a bit longer, it would've been nice if you could buy ammo.
  
  Graphics
 
  For a 6th-Gen console, they're pretty good. But for a 7th-Gen console? They're still alright. 
 But I still they could've polished the Wii graphics a bit more. However, the graphics are still 
 very nicely done and some of the best i've seen in 6th Gen. Not so great on 7th Gen, but still 
 good otherwise.
  
  Sound
  The sound adds to the creepiness of the game. The music in Resident Evil 4 is very good and is 
 very creepy in most areas. Another good thing about the sound is that when an enemy is nearby, 
 the creepy music starts playing so you'll be aware of who's coming towards you. The sound effects 
 are interesting as well. Of course there are the effects that are supposed to make you jump but 
 it's also some of the noises the creatures make before you properly encounter them. It's quite 
 freaky actually.
  
  Gameplay
  Resident Evil 4 has an interesting type of Action and also an interesting type of Adventure. In 
 the beginning, you'll be wandering around in a village shooting Spanish talking people who are 
 trying to kill. They all speak in Spanish so you'll have no idea what they're saying unless your 
 Spanish yourself or if you're learning the language. Other than these posessed villagers, you also 
 come across some strange creatures that surprisingly aren't zombies either. RE4 requires a bit 
 of strategy as there will be a lot of dying out there. One thing I must mention is the Merchant. 
 A particular merchant wanders around and trades with strangers like yourself. He sells new guns, 
 upgrades for your guns and all sorts of other useful items during your adventure. The only problem 
 is, he doesn't sell ammo. When you're in need of ammo, you can't rely on the merchant. So you have 
 to go out and find some, although throughout the adventure you'll find a good amount of ammo so 
 you'll be fine. Resident Evil is known very well for it's horror. Yes that's right, RE4 has it's 
 fair share of horror in it. You may find it common turning corners, finding that there's a creature 
 right there ready to pounce. There might even be the unexpected times when someone of something 
 jumps out and tries to get you. There are even the parts when you're running through a corridor, 
 hearing a strange sound giving you the creeps. So you have to watch out!! When you find Ashley 
 (which isn't very far in the game) you have to be her personal bodyguard. When fighting guys, you 
 have to make sure they don't take her away and you also have to make sure she doesn't die. There 
 are the odd moments when Leon and Ashley separate, so you'll either be back to just Leon again, 
 or you might even have the privilage to play as Ashley. There are also the side-quests. There are 
 quite a lot of side-quests including Ada's story when you get to play as Ada. There are some interesting 
 parts to the game which are especially good with the Wii Remote. There will be the odd scene when 
 you have to shake the remote to survive something (which I believe is just like mashing A with 
 the GameCube controller) . You'll have to do it when running from a boulder, when grabbed by an 
 enemy, when climbing up a ledge etc. It's very interesting and adds some fun to the Wii Edition. 
 One problem with the gameplay however was that I found the main story kind of short. It had it's 
 decent length for an Action Adventure. But with roughly 12-15 hours of main story, it will be over 
 quickly. But there is still a lot of extras to make up for that.
  
  Character Design
  You take control of Leon S. Kennedy who had his first appearance in Resident Evil 2. You also see 
 other familiar characters like Ada Wong and Krauser. You have to save Ashley Graham who happens 
 to be the President's daughter. The creatures also count. Some of them are very freaky like the 
 Colmillos and the Regenerators.
  
  Storyline
  An interesting storyline. As well as trying to save Ashley, you have to get rid of some parasites 
 in your body that are about to control you. All the villagers are possesed by this particular parasite, 
 and you don't want to!
  
  Overall
  What else can I say? Resident Evil 4 is a true masterpiece. You don't have to be a fan of the series 
 to like this, but it can sure get you in. This is one of the best games on the Wii and one of the 
 best games on any other console it's available on. Even if you played the GC and PS2 versions to 
 death, you'll still have a blast with Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition.
  9.5/10
  
  MUST BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkthemaniac
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil started as a survival horror game on the Playstation, if I remember correctly. The 
 first three had fixed camera perspectives, and had combat that lacked intensity. Then, they made 
 countless spinoffs of the series, only to return with Resident Evil 4, the best one yet. Having 
 never played Resident Evil 4 on the Gamecube or Playstation 2, I was excited to see it on the Wii, 
 and it didn't disappoint in any sense.
  
  You all probably know the story by now, so I won't say much. It's engaging and well composed, and 
 a blast to play through. Also, the extra content in this game was also found on the Playstation 
 2 version, so I will just say that it is an entertaining distraction. The one thing the Wii version 
 does differently is the most obvious one: the controls. They are possibly the most engaging and 
 fun controls to date, and with a superb action system, it can't be beat. The natural scariness 
 of the game also adds a sense of franticness, which makes it all the better. Just out of curiosity, 
 I hooked my Classic Controller up to see what it was like. I garuantee you that if you play with 
 the Remote and Nunchuk before you play any other version of this game, you will have a hell of 
 a time in trying to adapt. The controls are flawless.
  
  Combine that with a great, well used music score and a superior AI in the harder difficulty and 
 you get a timeless classic. I would give it a perfect score, but with no additional Wii content 
 beyond the controls, it's hard to, but If you have or haven't played Resident Evil 4, this game 
 is a must. It's just incredible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rustymilk24
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best for the wii. if u have had the game before you, you will still be amazed. 
 the new controlls are a fantastic addition tgat perfects a near pefect game. everyone who has a 
 wii must own this game
  egfnsdg gsd g sdgdmgd g fgd gd gdf gde gh fgd gdg f fs fsf sf s fhjsf sf s f sdfj sdjf fsd fs f 
 sd fs fweuifs f fhsd fs fs fs f fs f fs bf df sf f sf sf sd fjsdfjs fjsf sd fsd fjsd fjd f sj fjd 
 fs f ds f f s f fjsd fj dj sf d fjsd jf d sj fjds s fjsd dsbfdbfsdj f fjs fj fj djs
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi_Master1121
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  Very nice game. I had alot of fun playing this new verson of resident evil. The first shooter thing 
 was oright. I miss the old verson of how Resident evil was that would be my only complaint i have 
 on this game but other than that its a classic.
  
  
  I wish it was Online able because i think it would be so much fun to play this game with someone 
 else. The missions are amazing the videos is just amazing. The Zombies is amazing there is noting 
 to complain about this game at all expect the first person shooter. Get this game you dont know 
 what you are missing out on seriously.
  
  
  
  9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcburger99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 for the Wii is an awesome game. At first i had some trouble getting the controls 
 down, and it was a little akward. But after 10-20min of playing you start to get the hang of it 
 and it is an amazingly fun and exciting game. The game is amazingly suspenceful and will keep you 
 on the edge of your seat. RE4 is pretty easy to beat but is definitely worth buying. It is my personal 
 favorite for the Wii on the market. Definitely a game I recommend to anyone who loves to kill. 
 The game is filled with gory scenes and awesome sound affects. The graphics are also pretty damn 
 good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stap23
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  When i told my bro to get this game, i was kind of scared to try it. Yeah it took guts, then i 
 got hooked on it. I love the action in the game. Especially the head shots. The game play is really 
 sick. The graphics look really nice on the Wii. The bonuses thats been added in here are pretty 
 fun like Mercenary. Another great thing about this game, are the costume change of many rounds 
 you beat the game. The storyline was pretty interesting, and well detailed. I had my few scares 
 in the game where a Regenerator popped up. Overall, as a first time player in RE series this game 
 is really sick. I am looking forward to another RE game besides Umbrella Chronicles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Graham07
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  this is a best game I have ever played also it is the best in the series. great game play always 
 keeping you on the edge of your seat. I own this game on ps2 and wii though I have to say that 
 because of the wii's controls is soften's the difficulty. The great thing about this game is that 
 because of the added features like, assignment ada, separate ways and mercenaries means that even 
 after you have completed the main game you still have other short exciting games to play. assignment 
 ada although short is great if you like doing speed-run's. separate ways is another one of ada's 
 mini game's though this one is harder than assignment ada. but not to worry because if you complete 
 both you unlock the mother of all gun's, THE CHICAGO TYPEWRITER. this makes resident evil 4 a piece 
 of cake. the downside is that you have to get 1 million pesta's. mercenaries is great if you are 
 playing it with friends. the object is to kill the most ganado's in the amount of time. each level 
 has it's own difficult bosses but if you get at least 4 to 5 stars you unlock a playable mercenarie. if 
 you get 5 stars with every character on every level you unlock the handcannon. there are lots of 
 other weapons to unlock but I cant be arsed telling you all them. In all this game is great fun 
 but dont buy this game if you are easily scared lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MechaGoomba
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 many name it as the best resident evil of all time and even the best game of all 
 time. Im not sure about best game but this sure is the best resident i have played.
  
  You start as Leon a under cover cop in a mission to help save Ashley the presidents daughter. But 
 on the quest things get a little messed up. There is no zombies just weird experiments and crazed 
 townfolk. And as an extra bonus you get to use the wiimote mechanics along with RE4 which makes 
 it even better than the one on the gamecube. And thats saying alot.
  
  The game is the same as the one for the cube. You go to a spanish island and have a shootout against 
 villagers. The puzzles are deep, challenging and entertaining. There are so many guns to coollect. 
 The sound of the moaning people and creatures will bring a chill dwon your spine and the roar of 
 the chainsaw from the chainsaw man will freak you out. The game has a great creepy atmosphere and 
 a great challenge hardcore and average gamers will enjoy.
  
  The controlls are what make this game shine. The wiimote functions of aiming is great. You can 
 see were your aiming and its alot faster. You are actually in leans shoes now that the game has 
 such a real feel to it. One little problem it has just like in the other RE4 for the gamecube and 
 the PS2
  is that sometimes the controll doesnt function right as you want to. Your aim will miss sometimes 
 
  
  There is one little con which is that the amo runs out way to quickly. it gets on my nerves.
 
  
  Well i finally written out my review of RE4. I took the time to replay it over again. Its the best 
 shooting experience you will have on the wii. Pick it up ASAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sugarcandysin
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  This is so awesome! I decided to try it out after watching my owner's brother play this, and I 
 do NOT regret trying it out. Play it alot these days!
  
  Gameplay (9/10) -
  I usually hate games like this... but THIS GAME IS AWESOME!!!! Storyline's interesting, gameplay 
 is long, and fun!
  
  Graphics (9/10) -
  Graphics=awesome, obviously.
  
  Sound (9/10) -
  Music is soo creepy and sounds and all, yeah, yeah! Sooo cool!
  
  Value (10/10) -
 
  Pretty cheap, and it's REALLY fun! SO get it!
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (8/10) -
  The coolest horror game I've ever played, basically!
  
  -TOTAL SCORE- (8/10) -
  Now, I'm suprised 
 I even liked this. It's a pretty awesome game, and I love it to DEATH! Good replay value, suggest 
 you get this, and heard it's good even for people who've played the other versions! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thunderstarter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  So you're going to buy a Wii game.... buy this one. This game is amazing in so many ways. The storyline 
 is engaging and long.. which is a VERY GOOD THING. The gameplay is satisfying, who knew that blowing 
 off a zombie's head could be so much fun? And the suspense... oh the suspense... just praying that 
 you have enugh ammuntition to go on is half of the game. You'll be breaking every single crate 
 to see if anything useful is waiting for you to pick up. 
  There are some problems though. The graphics are dated. Not that the Wii is a graphics power horse, 
 but they could've just upgraded the graphics a little. Also, the game is the same exact one as 
 the gamecube version (not that I've played that version, but I've read reviews :P) . The interactive 
 cutscene actions were replaced by swinging the wiimote, they don't make the game better, they just 
 make your arm tired! 
  The best part about this game though are the controls. When I hear the words "Wii" and "shooter", 
 I curl up into fetile position. But with this game, I scream YAY!
  If you want a good Wii game, look no further.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: geraldo18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Great! Finally they made it, a game for Wii that uses the controls as they should be used. Too 
 bad the game has already seen GameCube and PS2 and PC...
  It's finely easier with the remote aim, feels good on control. You can really pretend to be killing 
 zombies with a gun in hand.
  The slicing and kicking gets more useful, since you can take you knife and attack just by moving 
 the controller (as if you were drawing the knife) , good feature.
  That's it, it's a good remake after all.
  Hope Wii gets more good games as this, but new next 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevo-millz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  When I got a wii I was a bit stumped at what game to buy, I had been reading the reviews on this 
 game and they where all mostly good so id decided to get it, im glad I did this is the best game 
 that has been released on the wii so far I think!
  The graphics are very good and the detail which has been put into the zombies and boss' is also 
 good, the controls are easy to learn its just the aiming with the wiimote that I had to get used 
 to, but once I got used to it I had a good time blasting the zombies to death with the different 
 variety of guns that are available from the trader. Each gun can be upgraded a number of times 
 ammo capacity, reload time are two of them.
  The story line is very solid and well put together, the cut scenes are good with better detail 
 put into them. This game had me on the edge of my seat from the beginning to the end, and so did 
 the extras that you unlock upon completing the game. The Mercenaries mode is the best, what you 
 do is choose from four of the zones which you visit in the main story: the village, the castle, 
 a dock type place and another place from the island, what you do is kill as many zombies as you 
 can while collecting egg timers which give you more time before the helicopter comes to pick you 
 up. 
  I have really enjoyed this game and am still enjoying it! I recommend it to anyone who has a wii 
 and lies resident evil games!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NyJeo723
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Well I kinda went into this game blindly. New to the RE series i wasn't sure if i was gonna like 
 it. But all the positive review and being ported to the Wii made me buy it. And let me tell you, 
 it was not disappointed at all. it exceeded my expectation.
  
  Well you are this guy name Leon who has to save the president daughter, Ashley in Spain. Get her 
 out of there alive basically, and on the way you find more about what happen there and raccoon 
 city.
  
  The controls are very good. Very precise. And you make a slash motion to use your knife, very useful. 
 I would suspect it is easier then an analog since your aiming. But this doesn't make it boring. 
 It revive the experience if you played the GC, PS2 version.
  
  This game is very intense, of course scary and makes you want more after its all done. Which you 
 can replay the whole game and a harder difficulty level. There are also extras like Ada's story 
 in the game.
  
  Overall this game is very fun, addictive, scary and worth the 40 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keymaster92
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil is one of my favorite games of all time. My first Resident Evil game took me over 
 6 months to beat. Putting Resident Evil 4 on the Wii was a awesome decision. Even though I beat 
 it already I still play it. When I still play RE4 I still get freaked out because of how the controls 
 really make it feel like you are Leon yourself. If you don't have this game and you still have 
 $50 left in your wallet buy the game. Because if you on't have this game right now you are missing 
 an awesome experience playing on the Wii with Leon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StrangeBreww
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 is the best shooting game for the wii in my opinion. It is non-stop action from 
 beginning to end. You'll be jumping off the couch and probably be standing most of the time because 
 the game never lets up.
  
  Story- Saving the president's daughter from the Zombies, that are infected. And she follows you 
 around pretty much the whole game as soon as you find her. (I don't want to tell you too much alwise 
 I'll spoil the game.)
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay isn't that hard if you have had use with the Wii controlls before. You learn 
 to shoot right in the beginning with the pistol. You can buy lot's of new guns with upgrades on 
 the sides from the merchant. Weapon's include shotgun, pistol, revolver, and alot more that I do 
 not feel like naming. What makes Resident Evil 4 so much fun, is the intense shooting at the zombies, 
 while they always get to close and kill you. And also how if you shoot at their leg, they'll actually 
 fall or if you shoot them in the face they'll cover their face with their hands. It did not take 
 me that long to get through the game, depends on how much you will play it. Ashley (presidents 
 daughter) does follow you around most of the game and it does somtimes get annoying when she'll 
 step in a trap or somthing and she'll die and you have to start level over again. You'll shoot 
 zombies that have axes to chainsaws to pick forks. Most of them do look the same except of the 
 sencond half of the game when you start fighting these weird religion guys who warship the leader 
 of all the zombies.
  
  The graphics/Visuals- for a Wii, they are pretty good. Nothing really special with the visuals, 
 but everything looks pretty detailed. Colors are usually pretty dark most of the time. 
  
  Sound/Music/Voice acting- The sound in the game is great. All of the guns sound loud and clear, 
 and there is always this echo when you shoot in the background. The voice acting is good also. 
 It doesn't look like their lip talking. The music is fine. I guess the Resident Evil games havn't 
 been really big on music. 
  
  The bad- Few glitches, bland dark colors somtimes bother you.
  
  So overall this action packed 
 bloody game was a real fun one and I hope yours is too. Go get this game! Not bad for $30!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 is just one of the best games you'll ever play in history, and thats from someone 
 who does'nt like resident evil games, evil Resident Evil 4 is just pure awesome!
  
  GOOD: Awesome new gameplay and camara angle, long wicked story, thrilling, gaining money to buy 
 upgrades make the game more awesome, totaly awesome boss battles and supurb graphics
  
  BAD: The graphics are alittle dimmer than the GC version, Ganados run up to you then walk
  
 
  GAMEPLAY-
  New gameplay and camara angles is what makes the game alot better than the othe resident evil games 
 made for the PSOne and the other ps2 resident evil games, this time you play as leon S. Kennedy 
 (From resident evil 2) and he goes to spain in search for the presidents missing daughter, but 
 from out of the blue creepy people from a clan called los Ellimados try to take over the world, 
 play with the camara over leons sailders and take on enarys strounger and smarter than any zombies!
 
  
  GRAPHICS-
  Very rich grapgical terms have been used in this game, tho stripped down from the gamecube version 
 the graphics are still very good and you'll have to put em together to find out which is better 
 than the other.
  
  SOUND-
  tho goofy dailogs here and there, the voice acting is exerlant in all aspect and makes the story 
 more intresting than any other games, nice spooky background music and great voice acting, no wonder 
 this game is so awesome.
  
  VALUE-
  The game has a sooooo awesome story and gameplay you'd wanna try to complette it to see what happend 
 at the end of the game and its soo good you; d wann play it other and other and other, i've completted 
 the game about 7-8 times and hav'nt got bord since .
  
  By resident evil now your you'll regret it! Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bardkieran
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition was a game I first played on the GameCube, so I had thought. The truth 
 was, I have never played the game until I played it using the Wii controls.
  
  Graphics - No major changes from the GameCube/PS2 versions, still impressive overall. I had no 
 complaints. Plenty of gore, and not the ex-vice president kind.
  
  Controls - Absolutely brilliant! I had SO MUCH more fun playing the Wii version than the GameCube 
 or Playstation 2 version. Headshots were so much more attainable. 
  
  Sound - As per Resident Evil, creepy and ambient, perfect mood-setting music.
  
  Gameplay - 
 Great! Story flows well, lures you in. With the smooth controls, you can spend more time getting 
 into the game than fumbling with controls or trying to obtain the ever-elusive headshot. 
  
  Overall - Add this to your collection, but don't let the little kids in the house play, unless 
 you want them bugging you at 2 AM because they've been having nightmares. Even if you've played 
 and/or beaten this game on the GameCube or Playstation 2, get the Wii version. It's like playing 
 a brand new game due to the excellent controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmonkey012
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 4:21 am PT
Review:  This is about the fourth Resident Evil 4 installment. Resident Evil 4 will be good no matter what 
 console its on. Heck, it could problaby be on the Virtual Boy and still be fun. The story line 
 here is the same as always ; you, Leon, are on a mission to save the presidents daughter from zombies 
 in some Hispanic country ( i think its Puerto Rica) . The graphics are a little better than the 
 Gamecube and PS2 versions. This installment takes full advantage of the Wii remote's motion sensing. 
 Resident Evil 4 has some of the best boss battles in gaming history. Wii Edition even has the Bonus 
 levels that only the PS2 had.
  
  THE GOOD; Its Resident Evil 4 , Better Graphics , Fun motion sensing controls, itt has some pretty 
 gory moments that are sick.
  
  THE BAD; walking around can get a little glitchy.
  
  OVERALL; If you like Resident Evil you should get this game or if you are just looking for a fun 
 shooter you should buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mafoofoo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Man, I'm usually not the one for Resident Evil games (NotoriousNick is the one for these types 
 of things as not only are they his cup of tea, he pwns at them) . Anyways, I was finally convinced 
 into making a purchase and man what a great deal. The controls are far more enjoyable on the Wii 
 version than on the GCN version, the graphics just like the GCN version are sexy and full of win. 
 The nice added bonus of having the PS2 exclusives inputted in while still keeping the real time 
 cut scenes, put this a step above the GCN version. 
  
  The story for all you horror mystery buffs is that you are some guy named Leon S. Kennedy who is 
 sent to retrieve the president's kidnapped daughter. Obviously this makes sense sending one guy 
 into a horde of crazies armed with who knows what in order to save the daughter of the president. 
 SWAT? Nah. The Army? Too expensive. The Marines? Don't feel like it. Good thing the current president 
 of the USA isn't as dumb as the one on RE4. One big thing I liked about this game is the lack of 
 Zombies. I'm usually against the shooting of innocent Zombies and am glad that Capcom finally saw 
 that Zombies deserve a fair and decent living like the all of us (Zombie Rights FTW) . So this time 
 the victims of your wrath are Spanish villagers. Yes Spanish. Not French, as they would give up 
 at first sight, nor German because they would pwn you. But Spanish. Kinda random if you ask me 
 but whatever. 
  
  Killing things has never been so fun. But with these awesome visuals it's even more fun. Possibly 
 even as much fun as Bwii (read my Bwii review to get this) .
  
  Gameplay wise, the controls are very smooth and from what I saw the game looked easy (though it 
 was Notorious who played the levels as I died all the time because I fail) . So i'd have to rate 
 the difficulty as moderately hard.
  
  Other than that check out NotoriousNick's review on Resident Evil 4 for a review written by someone 
 who actually can play and beat the darn game. :P
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMario_46
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great graphics - Superb controls and gameplay - Incredible soundtrack - Great Value - 
 Creepy enviroments - Awesome boss fights and enemies. 
  
  
  The Bad: Even though the graphics are 
 great there's not an upgrade from the gamecube version - Ashley is very annoying.
  
  
  
  Back in 2005 Capcom released a 
 game for the game Gamecube that became one of the sigle greatest games ever created, that game 
 was Resident Evil 4, gamespot's game of the year and an overall superb game in every single way, 
 and maybe there's a chance you've played it for both the Gamecube or it's PlayStation 2 port, so 
 unless you hated the game there's no reason whatsoever not to play it again because the Wii controls 
 breathe new life into it making this the best version of the game by far. 
  
  If you unfortunately haven't played Resident Evil 4 then here's how the story goes: You're Leon 
 S. Kennedy (who fans of the series will recognise for his appearance in Resident Evil 2) a US government 
 agent searching for the president's kidnapped daughter. Your search takes you to a little village 
 in Spain were you'll find half man-half Zombie people called Ganados. The story is great and really 
 interesting with some incredible plot twist, some occasional clichs and interesting characters, 
 there's also a new (for Nintendo owners) side story called Separate Ways where you'll control Ada 
 Wong, plus the classic Mercenaries mode is back. Overall superb story, but it's so different from 
 previous Resident Evils that some of the fans of the previous game will have a hard time appreciating 
 it. 
  
  The gameplay still holds itself after all this time and the new Wii controls makes this a joy all 
 over again. Just like the other versions you'll control Leon from a third person perspective and 
 there's a lot and i mean a lot of weapon variety to be found. You'll use these weapons against 
 the Ganado who are very creepy enemies and they are very strong, you'll shoot them wherever you 
 want: in the knees so they fall, in the head so you can see a gruesome show of blood and guts. 
 
  
  Leon is controlled with both the Wiimote and Nunchuck, movement is done with the nunchuck's analog 
 stick and use the Z button to run. Aiming mode is entered with the B button, you won't be able 
 to move during this mode but thats ok considering how slow some enemies are (that doesn't mean 
 you won't get killed from time to time) and you'll control a circular reticle for aiming instead 
 of the laser of the previous versions and shoot with A, it's very intuitive and there's a visceral 
 feel to it. The knife is used by holding C and then pressing A or waggle the remote, and for reloading 
 you'll hold the B button and the D pad or wave the remote. There are also some puzzles from time 
 to time to give you a break from all the action and they're not incredibly hard but they do their 
 job very well. 
  
  The game still looks superb even if it basically looks like a Gamecube game, the creepy enviroments 
 and ugly enemies look better than ever, specially the Village levels because they look so detailed 
 and spooky but that doesn't mean that the rest of the game looks bad, the sewers and the castle 
 still look superb. The cinematics are superb and make this game feel like a movie. The classic 
 cinematic battles are here, but this time instead of repeatedly pressing a button you'll have to 
 wave the Wiimote, so don't you dare to put it down during a cutscene because it'll get you killed, 
 it feels great and it adds a lot more to the experience. 
  
  
  The enemies and bosses are some of the best in videogame history, El Gigante still looks incredibly 
 scary and Del Lago is sure to create some heart pounding moments, the Ganado and the mutated enemies 
 like Garrador will give you some great gaming moments too. Overall they are all memorable. 
  
  The music stands out as one of the best soundtracks ever, it's very atmospheric and creates 
 a sense of suspense and some ambient noises that will sure keep you fearfully waiting for the next 
 enemie to appear. The voice acting is good too, except for one little annoying thing (Ashley) but 
 other than that it's superb, specially the spanish speaking enemies you'll encounter during the 
 adventure screaming things like Agarrenlo! Or Un forastero! 
  
  All in all Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition is the best version of the game, from it's intuitive controls 
 to the great graphics and sound and cinematic feel, this is worth a look even if you've played 
 this classic before. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maxned
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  I played this game with the gamecube controller as well and it was very hard. Playing with the 
 remote makes it fun by pointing and shooting and pulling off alot more head shots easier. I'm sure 
 you've already heard about everything else, so I just told you about the wii-specific stuff :P
 
  Ada wong also has several campaign levels so this makes it a bit more fun and should add about 
 3 hours of gameplay to the time. Also, Mercenaries is a fun addition but won't keep you stuck onto 
 the game. This game is extremely good and is probably one of the best games I have ever played. 
 If you want to play a good adventure until you get Super Mario Galaxy, play this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowie1979
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 4:12 am PT
Review:  Welcome stranger.... 
  
  First off, I never played this on the GameCube, so this won't be a comparison or synopsis of how 
 much extra bang you get for your buck. Instead how does it stand up as a new Wii game?
  
  The verdict is very well indeed. The game is definitely the best in the Resident Evil franchise 
 to date. As Leon Kennedy its up to you to infiltrate a European village and find out what happened 
 to the Ashley, the President's daughter.
  
  Unusually, this game does not actually feature any zombies, instead villagers infected with Las 
 Plagas (a generally nasty sort of parasite) go all crazy eyed and shuffle (or even run!) towards 
 you with axes, knives, or their bare hands.
  
  The Wii controls are great. Aiming with the Remote will have you popping heads and knee caps with 
 precision, making you wonder how anyone ever got by with Joystick aiming. The actual moving of 
 the character is the same clumsy style that has been a feature of all the Resident Evil games. 
 You soon get used to it, and it can add to the tension in some scenes, but it doesn't help the 
 realism as your character robotically runs backwards and forwards.
  
  What amazed me was the length of the game. There's just so much to get through. Even when you finish 
 it you unlock various other modes, including Assignment Ada, which is practically a whole other 
 game in itself (though reuses the environments of the main game) .
  
  It may be slightly worrisome that a revamped GameCube game ends up being one of the best Wii games 
 out there at the moment, but rest assured you'll be playing this with the curtains drawn late into 
 the night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silversalinas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Resident evil 4 was one of the best games iv'e ever played for the Wii. It is fun, exciting, thrilling, 
 and its got a really good story. The gamplay is also very good becuase you get to feel like you'r 
 really playing in the game with the Wii. The story is not too long but not to short, it's just 
 right. If you knew what to do you could probably beat it in about 10 to 14 hours. There is also 
 lots of unlockables and alternate game modes. The bosses are a lot of fun. There not too puzzling 
 but not too plain to beat. They do require some skill to beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS360Fanboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Quite frankly after 15mins of playing it, I realised I was too scared to move around the village 
 after dying several times. I was actually rooted to the spot in fear, unable to go on unless one 
 of the shambling spaniards saw me. From that moment I was hooked. What follows is a masterpiece 
 of game design, minutes where nothing much happens followed by seconds of intense waving the remote 
 around in panic make this a tense and film like experience. In addition the 'Dungeon Lair'-esque 
 requirements to waggle the remote or press A+B simultaneously could have felt bolted on, but, the 
 knife fight (i won't spoilt it for you) showed just how brilliantly this could be done. I found 
 myself poised ready as if in a real knife fight, barely listening to the characters talking, but 
 just watching for the next lightnening fast attack I would have to defend against. The controls 
 are spot on, and for those who can't use a joypad to play an FPS (like me) the wii mote targetting 
 is pitch perfect. The nunchuk being used to control the characters movements. Finally coupled with 
 some fairly tough bosses, and unlockable modes (2 additional story modes and the pick and play 
 mercenaries mode) make this well worth the money. Just a shame that the best game on the Wii is 
 a two year old gamecube game. Thoroughly recommended by me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joeg091090
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 12:24 am PT
Review:  this game is the perfect 3rd person shooter/action game. there is nothing wrong with this game 
 except the fact that you can't strafe, and you turn slowly. but with the automatic 180 degree turn, 
 it really helps out, and plus its easy to adjust to anyway. the music and visuals are perfectly 
 matched. you are sucked into this game and all your mind is on is the game. great cinematics, gore, 
 weapons, characters, and levels. the Wii remote for aiming is perfect. you can actually switch 
 from one enemy to the next precisely how you would holding a gun in real life, as apposed to using 
 a joystick and accidentally turning to far to the side when you're trying to react to something 
 quickly. replay value is great for trying the next difficulty, trying weapons out that you didn't 
 get a chance to use your first run (s) , and just because the experience with the game was so good 
 you need to play it over. the mercenaries mini-game isn't really that great, but the Edda or Adda's 
 campaign, whatever her name is, is a great addition. the smooth controls, gloomy environments, 
 creepy lighting, great weapons/levels/story, and cool head explosions and splashy noises make it 
 so fun. definitely in my top 5 games, EVER!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljlrj
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2007 11:56 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of the Resident Evil series. I don't care about the cinematic camera angles or 
 the tank controls because the atmosphere and the storyline made me forget about it. The games are 
 horrifying and great. Resident Evil Remake is number 5 on my top 10 games of all time, but this, 
 Resident Evil 4, is my favorite game ever made. And for the Wii, it's even better.
  
  Resident Evil 4 puts you in the shoes of government agent Leon Scott Kennedy. His mission is to 
 rescue to president's daughter from an unknown village in Europe. In this village he will encounter 
 the good, the bad, and the just flat out ugly while he searches for Ashley Graham, the president's 
 daughters.
  
  The storyline is absolutely superb and each twist and turn will keep you guessing what's going 
 to happen from your first step outside the police truck to the climactic jet ski escape. The game 
 is filled with great characters who will go down in gaming history.
  
  If you despised the old Resident Evil games due to the controls and camera then despise no more. 
 Resident Evil 4 totally reinvents the series and genre with a refined, superb, control scheme and 
 a great behind the shoulder camera angle. There's also a crosshair to help you out this time with 
 nailing those head shots on those god awful Ganados. Also, the game is just flat out scary. It's 
 moody and creepy and you will not want to play it in the dark. It's that scary. The boss battles 
 will scare you to death and each outnumbered encounter (pretty much all of them) will scare you 
 too.
  
  The Wii controls add a whole new depth to the gameplay. You actually point at the screen to aim 
 at your enemy and if you got a steady hand, this is control perfection right here. Also there are 
 the context sensitive situation. Say you're reenacting Raiders of the Lost Ark, you must wave the 
 Wiimote back and forth to sprint and then press A and B at the same time to dodge it. It's immersive, 
 it's fun, it's perfect. There is a slight learning curve though, about 10-20 minutes, but once 
 you master the controls you'll be pulling off headshots as good as a sniper.
  
  The graphics are amazing too. The characters look amazingly real and the enviroments are amazing 
 to look at. Also, you will never see a decapitation as real as this one in a video game. It's gross 
 but it's awesome. Leon's hair moves when he quickly turns around and villagers clothes flow in 
 the wind. The gun models look amazing also. The graphics are great.
  
  The sound is also perfect too. The guns sound loud and realistic and hearing an enemies head blow 
 up is joy to your ears. The voice actors are also great too. Forget about Barry Mr. Ed Burton's 
 voice because this voice acting is where it's at. The voices sound realistic and not cheesy at 
 all. All the actors play their characters with charisma it's just great. I'm also glad that this 
 game makes little use of the Wiimote speaker. I just don't think anything sounds good coming out 
 of it so I'm glad there is barely any sound from it.
  
  All in all, Resident Evil 4 is the best game I ever played and the added Wii Controls just make 
 it even better for me. It's better, it's scarier, and it's just plain funner. If you have the GC, 
 the PS2, or (god forbid) the PC version, sell them right now because THIS is the version to have. 
 It's only $30 and worth every cent. You're basically stealing it at that price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroDemo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  I'm still playing this 
  
  That line covers a lot of ground right of the bat. I still play this game on the wii while I also 
 played it on the gamecube. I never completed it on the gamecube (god knows why) so I didn't mind 
 picking it up for the Wii when it released for that particular system.
  
  The fact is, remakes aren't usually new Most of the times they are the same or slightly better. 
 But the thing is, RE4 for the Wii does feel a bit like a new game. The gamecube version was great 
 but the Wii version controls add so much more depth and overal FUN, that it feels like you're playing 
 a new game. Which it obviously isn't, since it's a few years old already.
  
  The two most important things to talk about are graphics and controls. How did the graphics hold 
 up a few years after the official gamecube release? And how are the new controls? Like I said briefly, 
 the controls are awesome and add a lot more to an already existing game. They respond well and 
 are just plain fun.
  The graphics did suffer due the passing of time. An obvious fact of logic if you ask me, but still 
 worth mentioning in this era of gaming where graphics DO matter. While they did suffer, that doesn't 
 mean they are bad. They still look pretty good if you ask me, it's the overal atmosphere of the 
 graphics that keeps the game good-looking.
  
  This is still a solid title for any action/horror fan. If you played the cube version, I still 
 recommend the Wii version. If you haven't played either of those two versions, buy the Wii version! 
 It's the best overal.
  
  Happy gaming,
  ZeroDemo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: citanes26
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 4:27 am PT
Review:  With so many other reviews for this game already on here, and a very good "official" review, I'll 
 skip all the story/character drivel and just throw out my two cents. 
  
  Resident Evil games have been around for a what, over a decade now, but this is the first one I've 
 ever actually played (never owned a PlayStation in the late 90's) . Having said that, it does a 
 good job of summing up the events that lead up to this installation (in the intro video) , so you 
 won't feel like you're missing anything background-wise if this is your first go at the series. 
 
  
  The controls are nigh-flawless: you never end up slashing Ashley's throat out with your knife when 
 you intend to reload or anything like that. She's also good to keep out of your way (or at least 
 duck) when you're pumping lead into the (sometimes) seemingly endless queue of monks in the castle 
 intent on strangling you or carting her off. My only complaint with the controls is the lack of 
 an ability to strafe around corners, which admittedly is more of a gameplay issue than a control 
 issue - and there aren't any instances where that's truly necessary anyway - but it'd have given 
 the game a more realistic look and feel, especially since Leon does it several times in cutscenes. 
 
  
  The minimalist music, although quite effective in conveying the mood of impending doom in the village 
 and castle levels gets a little tiresome after a while (and a bit annoying in the Island levels, 
 where it sounds like something from a 70's cop show) , and it'd be nice to be able to turn it off 
 while leaving the excellent sound effects on, as playing the game to your favourite Alice in Chains 
 or System of a Down album is pretty fun. 
  
  The graphics are simply beautiful (ironically, I suppose) in their depictions of the characters, 
 creatures and environments in the game, especially the sheer feeling of utter disrepair and neglect 
 they convey in the village, or the filth-ridden kitchen in chapter 5-1, off the top of my head. 
 
  
  In terms of difficulty, this is a hard game, but it's not THAT hard. It does have its frustrating 
 bits at times (like the cabin battle or the room with the wrecking ball) where you are horrendously 
 outnumbered, but for the most part you, with your high powered pistols, rifles, grenades and what-not, 
 are more than adequately equipped to handle the (generally melee weapon equipped) denziens of the 
 various levels, and it seems the game only ever really "punishes" you for biting off more than 
 you can chew or being careless (or even downright stupid) ; like rushing straight into a heavily 
 enemy-populated area rather than taking cover and picking your shots, not keeping an eye out for 
 traps, not keeping your weapon fully loaded, wasting powerful weapons on weak enemies etc. Generally, 
 when you do get killed you can guess why it happened, and chances are good (unless you don't learn 
 from your mistakes) that next time you'll be ready. The game does offer important survival clues 
 from time to time; there's one strong enemy in particular that you'll bump into a few times, and 
 the short cutscene that plays the first time you meet him practically screams his vulnerability 
 if you're observant. 
  
  There are a few puzzles in the game that can be tricky, and one in particular might have you tearing 
 your hair out (oh you'll recognise it when you get to it, trust me) , but they're not all that hard 
 if you just stop for a minute and think. While you're in the midst of solving a puzzle though, 
 there's no chance of being attacked, so you have time to scratch your head without having to worry 
 about being clobbered by some idiot with a ball and chain. 
  
  As far as the whole "horror" bit goes, it's constantly creepy, but there's nothing really scary 
 about any of it unless you have a weak stomach for blood or trivial things like a people stapled 
 to cabin walls via a pitchfork through the face (although there are a couple of instances late 
 in the game that'll make you jump the first time through) , and as for the "strong language" mentioned 
 in the game's opening screens, well, all I can say is that unless you speak Spanish, you probably 
 won't notice. (Apparently) the Spanish speaking enemies swear constantly, but the English-speaking 
 protagonists keep their explitives rare and rather mild for the most part. 
  
  All in all I'd say it's one of the best games ever made, and worth every penny of the price tag. 
 It's certainly one of the best game experiences I've ever had, I can't remember being so addicted 
 to a game since Doom in the mid 90's or maybe Ocarina of Time back in '98. 
  
  A must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sants412
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 is a must own game for Wii owners. This game has a great storyline which is also 
 humorous at parts. The gameplay is top notch. If you're looking for a challenge, then you've come 
 to the right place. It's a challenge, but it it really pays off after you beat certain things and 
 levels.
  
  Graphics are nice. They're good and clear. They're not bad at all, but not anything too special 
 either. The price is 30$ US. This game is well worth more than 30$ so it's definitely a steal even 
 if you've played this game on a last gen console.
  
  This game is scary at points, but nothing too overwhelming at all. This game has great replay value 
 as you might not expect it to have. After you've finished the game for the 1st time, they throw 
 in features if you want to play the story another time around. They also throw in some extras that 
 are fun to run through after you're done with the game.
  
  The bottom line: This is one of the most amazing games I'd ever played. If you have a wii, then 
 you must get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeldafan1234
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  You really cant say anything bad about this game its just purely addictive and so unique and that 
 this is how games should be. Yes it could be a little more scarier probably but if you play alone 
 by your self with the lights off it helps a lot trust me anyways the game is freaking sweet especially 
 with the wii zapper on the way makes the game a real steal. Its really fun and with the scoring 
 part of the game it can be come quite competitive to see who can get the most puts which this adds 
 so much to the replay value. This is a must have go out and buy it right now especially if you 
 haven't played this game now is the time to buy it. Also if you haven't played it on the ps2 even 
 better because this is like resident evil 4- 1.5, so go out and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PATRIOTREBORN77
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Better than expected.... I thought the first time when this game was said it was gonna Wii I thought 
 it was gonna suck because of the other ports being so poor on wii. Then when the game came out 
 and I started hearing good things which made me want to get it. So I got it from Gamestop and I 
 got home and started playing it. When I played this game for few hours I realized this game is 
 really fun. I liked the way the controls were used in it because the controls made me feel I was 
 more into game. The most I liked out of the controls was being able to aim your wii remote like 
 a gun and holding the B button and shaking your wii remote up and down to reload which felt like 
 reloading a real gun in some way. The graphics on this game is some of the best looking on the 
 wii. The characters in the game are well detailed and the water looks great. If you are wondering 
 if this is one of those games you can play over and over.... Then the answer is yes because this 
 game very fun and can unlock bonus material by playing over again. Heck if you want a real challenge 
 play the game through normal the first time. Then try Pro for a second time through the game. Anyway 
 this game was very great. I really enjoyed and if you are looking for a good game for wii. Then 
 this is one of good games you are looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xeyz81
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredible, just buy it, it is a legendary game to be remembered. This will go down 
 as one of the greatest games ever.
  
  I would say that this game isnt a must-own title if you already have gamecube version, unless you 
 want to play with a new controller scheme.
  
  incredible game from start to finish. amazing bosses.
  
  go out and buy this game if you havent 
 played it yet. its really, really good.
  
  It has many, many modes and a ton of replay value, most of all the graphics are so amazing. this 
 already looks like a nex gen game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RTRGRZA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Leon S. Kennedy is one of the best things to happen to the Resident Evil 4 franchise. He has the 
 skills and the firepower to beat the living hell of any dead or undead creature in his path. Now, 
 we can take control of him yet again in Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition, the most solid port out for 
 the wii right now. The story is still the same, Leon is sent to a small town in Spain to look for 
 the president's daughter, who has been kidnapped by a mysterious cult. As you'd expect, you know 
 use the wii remote to aim and shoot, which works really well. The difficult feels like it has been 
 turned down to accomodate the new control scheme, but there's always Proffesional mode. The quick-time 
 events are still here, only know they're pulled off by either pushing certain buttons or by widly 
 shaking the remote. The latter ones just make you tired. What makes Resident Evil 4 so great is 
 still hear. Its remarkable how many incredible boss battles and intense firefights are crammed 
 into a single game. All the brilliant set pieces that made this one of the longest and best action 
 games ever are still here, such as the bandaged chainsaw weilding grandmas, the intense quicktime 
 knife fight, your gross and large scale boss battles, and the race against time to get off an exploding 
 island. This port also includes some special features only owners of the PS2 version got: Assignment 
 Ada, a minigame where you take control of the sexy Ada Wong and infiltrate a facility in the island 
 run by the Los Illuminados to retrieve five samples of a parasite. In the Seperate Ways side story, 
 you control Ada and get to see what she was doing and how it affected the main storyline (Leon's) . 
 For example, in the beginning, when Leon is attacked by the spanish peasants, Ada rang the church 
 bell to cause a distraction. Sounds kinda interesting, but the problem is that the action is not 
 as good as the main story since you lack the weapons customisation from Leon's quest. This filler 
 moments of the story will mostly appeal to hardcore RE fanboys. Also included is The Mercenaries, 
 a minigame where the point is shooting as much enemies as possible in a certain time limit. First 
 you have only Leon, but can then unlock other characters like Ada, Wesker, and Krauser. Each has 
 their own unique weapons. The idea is that this game helps you improve your combat skills. Overall, 
 this is like a collector's edition of tha game. All you could ever expect from this game is here. 
 It has a cool control scheme, all the action, gore, and undead monsters you could ever want, and 
 some solid extras. This is the definitive edition of Resident Evil 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ce184705
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  The Wii makes this games difficulty pretty easy but it is still really fun. You get to stroll around 
 and just take out everyone on your way through the game. The designers did another great job of 
 making this game. They have really innovative ways of beating bosses and finding your way through 
 the levels. One really cool thing about it is when you beat it you can play it again with all of 
 your kick ass guns from before and in a harder level. It has a pretty immersing story if you are 
 into watching the clips, if not then just don't watch 'em. The only problem I really have with 
 this game is that some of the bosses before the final one are harder then the last boss. If you 
 have magnum and shotgun bullets be prepared to have an easy time with the last guy. Although this 
 game is still really fun and the zombies can now combat you with tools and chainsaws so it is pretty 
 awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: railszach
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 is by far the best Resident Evil yet, and is by far the best on the Wii. It features 
 all of the bonus content on the PS2 version of the game while using the revolutionary controller 
 of the Nintendo Wii. Even though the game was initially released years ago, it holds up remarkably 
 well and the graphics seem to be on par with most of the Wii games we're seeing today. The game's 
 story is awesome as well, with gameplay to match. Quite simply, Resident Evil 4 is the epitome 
 of shooters, especiallt for the Nintendo Wii. Even if you have the game for other consoles you 
 owe it to yourself to pick this one up at the cheap price of 30 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decimator17
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 being released back at the start of 2005 was an excellent, game on the gamecube, 
 it spawned a sequel on the PS2 at the end of the same year with extra features. Now in 2007 RE4 
 is re released on the PC and the Nintendo Wii. The Wii version being the best out of any of the 
 past recreations of the original games.
  
  Game-The core game itself is still the same as before along with the extras of the PS2 version. 
 You play as Leon Kennedy trying to save the presidents daughter from a Hispanic cult. The game 
 will take up to 20 ours or so to complete. Sound-The sounds are very atmosphereic and go along 
 well with all the guns and things that are in the background. The actual background music itself 
 is very creepy and helps set a mood of terror and suspense in the right areas.
  
  Graphics-The graphics are still the same as they were on the gamecube and the PS2 the only real 
 significant change is that the load times are shorter than the PS2 version. The graphics on the 
 Wii could have been better but the controls make up for it.
  
  Gameplay-The gameplay for the Wii version is conpletely different than the past versions of the 
 game, which means that the remote is used to aim with. On the past two versions you could only 
 look with the right analog stick and move with the left. With the Wii Remotes motion sensor it 
 gives you free aiming ability so you can aim at your own speed. You can also use the classic remote 
 extension if you'd rather play with the classic style of controls. The trade off is the enemies 
 are a it easier to defeat but either way it's still satisfying to beat them.
  
  In the end RE4 has been ported over to many systems but this is the definitive edition. When playing 
 this version it will be worth it because the game feels entirely new with the new controls. So 
 if you actually haven't played RE4 then this is the version for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schwass
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2007 12:25 am PT
Review:  A great game with almost perfect gameplay.
  The weapons in this game are good but there could have been a larger variety. Bosses are brilliant 
 and fun to battle. Plenty of enemies, mutant dogs, crazed villagers and other creatures.
  Graphics are very good for the wii, probably the best for it, sound is good and utilises the speaker 
 in the wiimote very well (reloading noises and others come through this) .
  Also the controls are very easy to use and take no more than half and hour to learn perfectly, 
 shooting is simple and there are certain times when you have to shake or move the controller in 
 a certain way.
  This game is very enjoyable and even when you die you want to play it again.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stomachworm
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  Better than any horror film out there, RE4 was not only a fun game but was a terrifyingly immersive 
 experience that made it a masterpiece and the reason to get a Gamecube.
  
  I got this for the Wii excited to use the remote thinking I would get even more immersed, making 
 the terror more immediate if I'm having to aim in real time, etc, etc... and on some levels it works, 
 but not enough to make it a massively different experience... eventually you get used to it and 
 you find yourself playing the game all over again and maybe wondering why you bought it again. 
 Don't get me wrong, It's still a great game and if you never played it then definately get it... as 
 it works well on the Wii.... I just don't think you need to if you have already played it on the 
 GC or PS2 and if you are curious about using the remote in a good 1st person game then I would 
 get Metroid.
  
  I had to knock it down for this reason.... but its still a 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsychoPatient7
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  This is honestly the best resident evil game I have ever played. There is and intriguing story 
 and great action. I have always had a problem with the walking and turning in Resident Evil games, 
 it just took too long. This game has gotten rid of all those problems. The game has also taken 
 great advantage of the Wii remotes. Wii is hands down my favorite system, its just so different. 
 Playing this game you can just feel that it was made for the Wii. If youre a fan of Wii buy this 
 game. I can't see anyone not loving it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ehsan8888
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Good: Great new controls; Still remains an instant classic; High replayablity; Easier; For $30, 
 it's a total steal; Great story; Awesome AI; Cut scenes keep you on your toes; Dude, it's Resident 
 Evil
  
  Bad: Cheesy Dialog; Not much Wii content; mini games could have been better; Easier
  
  By now 
 most people have known Resident Evil 4. Some people may have played this gem on the Gamecube, PS2, 
 or (heaven forbid) the PC. Now is your chance to play this game if you haven't played it before, 
 or just play it again if you played the other versions, because this game does not disappoint.
 
  
  For the people who haven't played this game, you play as Leon S. Kennedy, a top secret agent working 
 for the US government. Your mission? To rescue the president's daughter who was last seen in a 
 village somewhere in Europe. When you first enter you find a zombie-like hostile ready to attack 
 you with an axe. Wait a minute! Where are the zombie we've known and loved? Guy's these aren't 
 zombies, they are regular people who are infected with the Las Plagas, a parasite that controls 
 your mind and eventually makes you lose your humanity. The villagers are a nice change from zombies. 
 One thing you can note is the faster agility the people posess and the ability of them holding 
 weapons, such as axes and pitchforks. Another thing is that they can communicate with each other 
 and often tavel in groups, so they use alot of teamwork, which is hard at times to take them down. 
 But a thing that you really need to master is where do you need to shoot. If you shoot someone 
 in the head, it's very likely their heads will pop off. If you shoot them in the legs, it's very 
 likely of them to fall, which is a perfect opertunity to knive them down
  
  The weapons system also changed. Now you get a weapons catche, which you can control the way you 
 want choose to keep and dispose the items at your own will. The view for the weapons changed from 
 aiming in limited ways, to aiming in a more pecise way using the Wii-mote, to give you a better 
 feel for aiming. The new aiming system is alot easier to aim with a Wii-mote rather than aiming 
 using a controller.
  
  The story is well done, but one problem you encounter during the game is the occassionaly cheesy 
 dialog (especially in the castle are) . Once in a while you will think that Did a two year old make 
 this? , but the story is still very good, using horror movie elements that will keep you guessing 
 to what will happen next. Another thing that is very revelutionary to this game are the cut scenes. 
 Be prepared, this is no hour long Hideo Kojima cut scene, you will have to press certain buttons 
 or hard motions to avoid being killed, which will keep you on you toes.
  
  What's a Resident Evil game without the after party? After you beat the game, there are minigames 
 and extra missions to dig into. One noteable mini game is the Seperate Ways missions, where you 
 play as Ada Wong to actually see what she really is up to and discover her secret. The min game 
 is rather interesting, but kind of feels linear and simple unlike the main story. Another mini-game 
 is The Mercenaries, wher you play as a selectable character and take down a number of people to 
 earn points to unlock new characters. The mini game is fairly interesting, but kind of gets boring 
 after a while. The main problem with the Wii Edition is the fact that it doesn't really have alot 
 of Wii content to play upon, rather just playing the PS2 version only with better graphics and 
 newer controls.
  
  My final word on this game? Buy it. The only excuses of you not buying is because you played all 
 the other versions, you don't like survival horror, or you just hate fun. The new controls is another 
 reason that it won't hurt to play this instant classic. In other words, The Nightmare is Reborn 
 , so just give it a try. You'll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition Resident Evil 4 was unfortunately a game that I never grabbed my hands 
 on for the Gamecube. The Wii version of the game was my first play through it. Looking back, I 
 realize how unlucky I was to never have tried this game out. The experience is just awesome and 
 it is my second favorite shooter of all time. Here is how things start offYou play as Leon, a 
 cop who comes from Raccoon City. You are sent on a mission to locate the Presidents daughter, 
 whose name is Ashley. You are asked to chat with the pedestrians of a village you start in to find 
 out if they had ever seen the girl. Ironically, these people are violent and attempt to kill you 
 off. Youre only choice is to fight back. This game is a third person shooter. The controls are 
 excellent for a shooter on the Wii. You use the Nun Chuck and Wiimote. The nun chuck enables Leon 
 to move, while the wiimote functions as many various things. By pressing and holding the B button, 
 you can stop moving and aim your weapon. The motion sensitive control is what you use to aim. You 
 press Z on the nun chuck to fire. By swinging the Wiimote, Leon will swing his knife where he is 
 facing. I liked this. The knife is a good way to save ammo. Although it is a very weak weapon, 
 once you have it out and ready, you are easily able to kill off foes. You can also use it to cut 
 open crates which promise you great items. Health products, such as herbs, can be located in them 
 along with huge assortments of ammo. You can shoot the crates open, but in the end, you will be 
 low on ammo making the game extremely hard. There is more use of buttons but I do not feel like 
 getting in complete detail. Overall, the controls are accurate and work perfectly on a console 
 such as the Wii. The sensitive aiming may often screw up, but for the most part you will find it 
 precise. The campaign in this game is continuously intense and fast paced. It does start off slow 
 for about two seconds. It is very action packed and very enjoyablenot to mention it is a sheer 
 bloodbath. While you might think this game is just your average shoot the enemies and run to beat 
 the level, you are totally off. RE4 involves many puzzles. These puzzles are difficult and often 
 require observation to your environment. It may sound tedious and annoying but it isnt and it 
 simply adds on to the challenge in the game. To add on to that, you frequently run into traps. 
 Using unique control from the Wiimote, you are able to escape. This game is indeed challenging 
 and definitely classified as difficult. Even if you are playing on the easy mode, maintaining ammunition 
 (key to survival) becomes tough- as ammo becomes more and more scarce. Bosses are brutes for sure. 
 This game has a varying supply of bosses that require strategy to eliminate. They are much harder 
 than you might think and are usually where you run low on ammo for weaponry. The bosses are all 
 distinct and some have more than one phase to be beaten. I do not want to get into who the bosses 
 are but lets just say each one is fairy challenging and some are very difficult. The visuals in 
 this game (although identical to the 2005 edition) are outstanding. While they have shown a small 
 amount of age, this game is still one of the better looking games on the Nintendo Wii. The enemies 
 and bosses are horrifying and intimidating- not to mention thorough as far as design. I loved how 
 the AI responded to your shots. If you hit an enemy in the leg, occasionally he, she or it will 
 fall down in response. If you shoot them in the arm, they would hold it. Oh, and best of all this 
 game has awesome headshots. Aside from Gears of War, I like Resident Evil 4s headshot kills the 
 best. Environments are dark and dreary yet highly variable. In one location it starts off as day 
 and then progresses to night as you work through the missions. Everything is in great detail. I 
 love the graphics- that is how I can simply put it. Sound is also great. The music is grim and 
 very well fits the mood of the environment you are in. There is a nice alter in music too so you 
 dont get too bored. The voice acting is done well and the sounds are superb. The enemies have 
 their own haunting cries as does Leonwhen he is in pain. All in all, sound is done well, but the 
 music is not perfect. Lastly, is this game worth playing over? I would definitely say it is. With 
 a selection of difficulty modes to an already thrilling campaign, a bunch of extras (from both 
 the Play Station and Game Cube versions) , it is no doubt that Resident Evil is extremely replayable. 
 The main problem is that there is not multiplayer for your friends. Nonetheless, the unlockables 
 in this game are plentiful. Overall Resident Evil, albeit its small amount of flaws, is a shooter 
 worth remembering and worth coming back to. It is not the best shooter, but it definitely is worthy 
 of a top ten list. Oh and it is only 30 bucks.
  The Good: Excellent campaign with many difficulties, many extras, great graphics, good sound, good 
 use of Wii functions, it is hard, good deal- more than your moneys worth
  The Bad: No multiplayer, graphics slightly outdated (even though they have aged well) , occasional 
 annoyance in motion sensitive control
  Overall: 9/10
  -Oblivion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHUTupNrocK8
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  To start off, everyone should know what Resident Evil 4 is. Resident Evil 4 was one of Nintendo 
 Gamecube's biggest games, then later releasing on the Playstation 2 making that system worth playing 
 again. Now we have Resident Evil 4 on the Wii, with new and old modes, new controls, and more fun 
 then any Resident Evil game ever made! Now people many say that it was better on the Gamecube or 
 Playstation 2, but you didn't actually get to aim at the screen with your controller to pop some 
 heads off now did you?
  
  The storyline is pretty simple, your Leon, and you've gone to Europe to save the President's daughter, 
 Ashley. When Leon gets there, he really doesn't feel all that welcome when a couple hundred Spaniards 
 are chasing him with pitchforks, axes, and chainsaws! Unlike other Resident Evil games, you actually 
 have an objective, where as in past Resident Evil games your just trying to survive and get the 
 heck out of Raccoon City. 
  
  Sometimes, the storyline seems to be repeating itself. Ashley seems to be getting captured everytime 
 you retrieve her, but actually leads you to different parts of the game, such as a village, mansion, 
 and an island. All three different parts of the game feel fearful, as the enemies continue to get 
 incredibly powerful nearing the end of the game (The Island.) Overall, Resident Evil 4 is a well 
 rounded game with soild gameplay, controls, storyline etc. 
  
  Resident Evil 4 uses the Wii's motion sensor capabilities to it's, somewhat, high potential. How 
 so? Well, take out your WiiMote and aim it right at the screen. You get to jump right into the 
 game, and actually aim at your enemies with your gun (WiiMote) to kill them! That's only one of 
 the many things the WiiMote is capable to do in this game. When your done aiming at your enemies 
 with your WiiMote, reload!! If you need to reload your gun, you hold down B and move your WiiMote 
 up and down for the real reload feel. If you ever run out of bullets, which is nearly impossible 
 in this game, use your knife. Like you would in real life (I hope you wouldn't,) slash the WiiMote 
 as your actually slashing the enemies in the game with your knife! So far, the Wii's motion sensor 
 has been used to it's highest potential in this game then any other on the Wii. 
  
  The cut scenes also uses the Wii's motion sensor capabilities to a minimum, but still keeps you 
 on the edge of your seat the whole time. When a cut scene comes when you get to a checkpoint, you 
 want to relax and enjoy watching Ashley get captured 30 times, but not in this game. In most of 
 the cut scenes, there are parts where you have to dodge enemy weapons, or just interact with whatever 
 Leon is doing. A great example of that would be Leon's and Krauser's little chit chat in the middle 
 of the game. 
  
  Most of the time, you would just wave your WiiMote controller back and forth to dodge death, or 
 push A/B buttons. That would sometimes get old, because that's basically what you would have to 
 do most of the time. If Leon was running, climbing, cutting, dodging, or shooting in a cut scene, 
 they would all be the same interactions (waving the WiiMote.) To use the WiiMote to the highest 
 potential in cutscenes, instead of waving the WiiMote, they could have had you move the controller 
 up and down fast while Leon was running. To dodge a weapon, such as a knife thrown at your dome, 
 you could have whipped the controller to the side to actually dodge the weapon. So on and so on. 
 Again, the cut scene interactions aren't that important, but some times it's the little things 
 that usually count especially since this is the Wii, they really couldn't of did much with the 
 Gamecube and Playstation 2. Although, at times you may get annoyed of the cut scene interactions 
 while your going to get a drink, and getting killed by an enemy, it still keeps you on the edge 
 of your seat and into the game (please, don't get a drink during the cutscenes thinking it's okay, 
 because you'll come back to a dead Leon!) 
  
  Although, the game is fairly easy most of the time, it can get to be a real "pain in the neck," 
 or just through the neck (Pun, haha, laughter.) Unlike past Resident Evil games, Resident Evil 
 4 is the easiest of them all, not very satisfying of the Hardcore Resident Evil player, but the 
 game still gets the job done. Even on Professional mode, the game is a bit too easy, but at the 
 same time your not dying 1000 times, thus actually enjoying the game on the highest level of difficulty 
 instead of pulling the hair out your head. Why, your thinking, easy? Sure, and one of the factors 
 that making the game a bit easier then the past is the "over the shoulder view," or third person 
 view. 
  
  The third person view really does make this game a lot more enjoyable and easier. Easier you say? 
 Because, instead of not seeing what's coming at you in the classical Resident Evil view, you have 
 a clear view of what's a head of you, so you can just take aim of your enemies, unlike the past 
 games. Enjoyable you say? Well, almost the same reason as the easier part. You can see your enemies 
 before they see you, and you can enjoy headshotting all your enemies with the controller aimer! 
 Gun upgrades sure do make taking down enemies a lot funner and easier!
  
  As you continue your journey to rescue Ashley, an Australian merchant shows himself to help you, 
 a lot, along the way (don't kill him or he'll never come back!!) This merchant almost gives the 
 game a RPG feeling of actually "leveling" Leon up, but instead you're only leveling the gun's power 
 up. Now there are many upgrades you can purchase, with the help of the pesos you gather. Nothing 
 makes the game better than out matching the enemies with an Infinite Rocket Launcher! Other guns 
 you can purchase are going to have to be unlocked. How?! Well, when you beat the game, you unlock 
 a lot of fun playable modes. One of them being Ada's Separate Ways.
  
  Ada's Separate Ways is a game mode where you can play as Ada Wong, Leon's very helpful companion 
 in the main storyline. In this game mode you can actually see what Ada had to go through to end 
 up in the main storyline's cut scenes with Leon. This new mode was added in the Playstation 2's 
 Resident Evil 4 game, and eventually made its way to the Wii Edition. Separate Ways features new 
 weapons, moves, and paths. Remember the church bells ringing in the beginning of the game when 
 Leon was in the village? It turns out it was Ada ringing the bell as a distraction for Leon. When 
 you complete the Ada storyline, you unlock new weapons for sale in the main storyline, such as 
 the Chicago Typewriter. Another game mode is the Mercenaries, where you can play as Leon, Ada, 
 Hunk, Wesker, and Krauser. Also, with more guns to be unlocked in that game mode!
  
  Who ever said the graphics aren't "Wii material?" The graphics are perfect for this game, remember 
 that the Wii's purpose in a game isn't to match the Xbox 360 or Playstation 3 graphics, but only 
 to have the good graphics and incredible gameplay, in which they delivered in Resident Evil 4! 
 With that said, that basically covers everything about this game. It's an overall great game, for 
 a mature audience of course. In my opinion, one of my favorite games of all times.
  
  Overall: 9.8
  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 9
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Name654321
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  So much effort has been put into this game. Each level has so much of love and detail, you should 
 buy it for that alone. In the castle you can see intricate persian rugs and sparkling chandeliers 
 swaying slightly after the intense battle with a minigun-wielding cultist. Each level leaves you 
 wanting more. Each kill makes you feel like a hero. This is what games are about. You may think, 
 after playing MoH or CoD that the controls will be rubbish. They couldn't be better. However, this 
 game doesn't work with the gun thing for the wii or the zapper ( Umbrella Chronicles will though 
 ) .
  The enemies and bosses are fun and the battles are intense. Worrying about losing ammo on enemies 
 means the headshots are important, but you'll soon forget about your ammo when you come face to 
 face with Salazar. Completing the main game takes around 20 hours but afterwards you'll unlock 
 more and more new missions and stuff that completing it 100% will take 30+ hours. Just remember: 
 you NEED a rifle for chapter 5-1! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jembinator
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  If you haven't played this game before just like me then what are you waiting for get this game 
 i highly recommend it.... it makes excellent use of the wii controls which are fun and challenging 
 to use... i just love using the wiimote as a weapon.. lol... there are soo much sections in the game 
 that are amazing and terrifying but thats what you get with a resident evil game..... A crap load 
 of weapons to chose from that are upgradeable and a lengthy adventure leaving you to want more..... anyways 
 stop reading and get the game probably the best on the wii console as of yet.!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muffinduck01
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Well. what can i say Capcom took the best game from the previose hardware generation and made it 
 even more better and this arguably the greatest game of all time as in Ocarina of time final fantasy 
 VII or even super mario bros. quality of gameplay. Basiclly what you have here is the Playstation 
 2 version of this game with the gamecube grafix and wii motion controle that all in all make this 
 game a MUST BUY for any wii or to-be wii owners. any way if you have played any other RE4s you 
 can skip to the next paragraphe if you havent heres the skinny: Alhley the doughter of the president 
 has been kidnapped by a religouse organization even more crazy then Micheal Jackson on speed and 
 crack at the smae time. What they want is to take over the world (duh) and they plan on doing that 
 with a parasite that turns any liveing this it inhabits into a brainless savage out to kill anything 
 that there leadeer tells them to. So, you are Leon Scott Kennedy special government agent that 
 was assigned to protect the presidents doughter any you got to work a half hour late becouse of 
 the crazy D. C. traffic and a unplaned donut stop and shes been kidnaped so your chrged with going 
 to spain to get her back from these crazy people. Thats the whole first cutseceen of the game now 
 you can skip it and go right to the gameplay (yippe for you) . Now of course, the gameplay in RE4 
 is the best part of the game as any game shold be. basicly ever objective for you is in the first 
 third of the game is to kill ever single honest woodsmen/woods women you meet or some small variation 
 of that later on in the game and the ocasional giant ogre and some tall guy with and exposed spine 
 or whatever. Further more these things known as the Los Ganados (translated meaning cattle) are 
 not i reapeat NOT zombies. They can run, throw stuff shot crossbows with flameing arowws and out 
 smart you if you not carfull and let them flank you on every side and if that happens it basicly 
 means your screwed and your gonna die and have to try it all over again. So yes the enemys actually 
 have ingeniouse AI that can and will outsmart inexperienced players and even sometimes me and iv 
 played throught this game over 30 times thats how smart they are. AND YES the controles work extreamly 
 well but they take you a good half hour 45 minutes to get used to as they are a little tricky but 
 after you get used to them you will never ever want to go back to useing a controller (for new 
 RE4 players you can plug in a gamecube controller or a classic controller with the old laser sight 
 to see how much the controlles have improved) . Finally, ill end this reveiw with the extra content. 
 For those of you who never got to play the PS@ version your in for a real treat, what you are missing 
 from the GCN version is :Sperate ways sie quest staring the lovely Ada Wong wiche also shows some 
 things that will now make sesne to you as you play through the single player game IN THE NEW COSTUMES 
 with Leon being a 1930's gangster (sorry no bling here) and Ashley as a knight in some armor you 
 will thank the gameing gods for during professional mode, and for compleating set mode you get 
 a snazzy new laser that well... its a giant LASER need i say more (i havent unlocked it yet and 
 il update this reveiw when i do get it and test it out) and you also get a movie browser that lets 
 you watch ever cutsceen form the game why they put it in i dont know its preaty usless if you ask 
 me but still...
  
  All said above in list form...
  Sperate ways
  new costumes
  the giant LASER 
  and the movie browser
  
  now go buy this game and play it 30 time over 
 and fell free to thank me for changeing your life later on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keronos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 for Wii is the best version yet. with all the content in it, and the controls make 
 it even more fun, what could be better, right?
  
  is good that they decreased the price a bit, because it might cause some perks or questions to 
 come up if it came out for 50 bucks... because it is bassicly the same story and same gameplay.
 
  
  so the only thing different is more content and bonus', like the costumes and weapons, and the 
 wii controls make it even more fun... if u dont have RE4, but have a Wii, get the Wii version! as 
 this is the one and only way to play resident evil 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspro73
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  When I finished this game I was asked When was the last time you enjoyed a game that much? It took 
 me about a minute to come up with anything that approached the amount of fun and intensity that 
 Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition (RE4W) provided, and then I could only come up with one game.*
  
  Everything about RE4W is perfect, to avoid my being redundant just add is/ are perfect to the 
 following words; the gameplay, the graphics, the pacing, the enemy design, the boss battles, the 
 music, the voice acting, the controls and, yes, even the end credits are perfect.
  
  By perfect I mean that the level of thought that was applied to each of those categories resulted 
 in execution that would be hard to exceed and certainly at a level that I have not seen exceeded 
 in any other game.
  
  On top of that, this particular version of Resident Evil 4 includes almost another game's worth 
 of extras. I had not played a Resident Evil game prior to RE4W, at least not for more than 4-7 
 minutes, so these perspectives are not seen through the gauze of nostalgia or fondness for the 
 franchise. With the exception of Trauma Center I have not been particularly impressed with the 
 Wii to this point either, but the control scheme of RE4W has made me a believer, to the point the 
 next game I will be playing is Metroid Prime 3.
  
  *That game was Yakuza. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -D3MO-
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2007 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition (Wii) Review
  
  Resident Evil 4 was orignally released for the GC, then ported to the PS2, then to the PC, and 
 now Finally to the Wii. Does the latest Nintendo console have to guts to run RE4 in its full glory?
 
  
  Pros:
  
  -Amazing Controlls, Easy to navigate and very effective
  -The enemies are back, from crazy villages to giant trolls... err El Gigante... this version is packed 
 with them
  -Same great production value that the Playstaion 2 and GameCube versions had
  -Great Story
  -Worthwile purchase... over 30 hours + bonuses
  -Extra bonuses extend gameplay 
 by another 10 hours
  
  Cons:
  
  -Its a Remake of RE4... so not much new content
  
  A perfect remake for the Wii. This is a must buy game, especially now since the Wii is lacking 
 quality titles. This is an amazing game and should not be missed... if you can't get the Wii version 
 get the PS2 or GC version. You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThatGrungeKid18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  This is an awsome game i first beat it when it came out on gamecube then when i saw the integrated 
 wii controls and read some reviews i knew it was a must have for me. I love the game only draw 
 back is you cant move while your aiming which can get frustrating but this game was only 29.99 
 when i picked it up and i had a 20$ off ceupon so it was only about 11 bucks for me and well worth 
 it i must say. I didnt want to spend the whole 30 bucks since i basically knew what happened in 
 the game and the ending but this game does have some added content not found in the gamecube version. 
 I must say the controls are pretty flawless and the camera is magical. This is definetly a game 
 for the collection for those of you lucky enough to have gotten your hands on a wii! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eygpt99
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  damn right
  
  yes it is the same game like the on for the cube but with the wii controls and the fact its 35 
 dollars 35 dollars!!!! does make it better
  
  espically if u just bought the system a 35 dollar game is great ( but wii sports is a pretty solid 
 game though)
  
  If u bought the game cube re4 sell it and get the wii re4 if u are rich
  
  sadly im not .... thats y i bought re 4
  
  im just filling space cause they wont post if 
 its less than 100 words
  
  who has the time to write 100 words.... sadly i do 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  The Good: RE4 is still one of the best games ever made, period; production values are still rather 
 impressive; Wii controls work perfectly for the gameplay; Nintendo fans finally get all the PS2 
 content; simply an amazing game, no matter how you play it.
  
  The Bad: Touch ups to the sound and visuals would have been very much appreciated; full compatibility 
 with the GameCube controller should certainly have been available; no Wii-exclusive content besides 
 the controls; little things here and there that could have and should have been updated, but weren't; 
 some may be put off by the $10 extra to pay for this version.
  
  Back in 2005, Capcom released what is quite possibly the best game of last generation. That game 
 was Resident Evil 4, the crown jewel of a long-running series that was known for sticking to its 
 roots for far too long. Critically acclaimed and amazing as it was, it just didn't sell as well 
 as Capcom would have wanted, which led to them breaking off the GameCube exclusivity and moving 
 it over to the PlayStation 2 with added content, but cut back visual and sound quality. Now in 
 the next generation, Capcom has given RE4 a loving upgrade to Nintendo's new platform and has done 
 it with the grace of a master. While there are mild complaints to be thrown against this edition 
 of the game, it is nonetheless the definitive version and a must-have for any Wii owner who does 
 not own the GameCube or PS2 version.
  
  The main upgrade that has been done in this version of RE4 is, obviously, the controls. Now, Capcom 
 could have just slapped the controls onto the game and called it good, but instead they took a 
 lot of time and effort to make it work really well. The aiming reticle is on the screen at all 
 times, and when you press the B button, Leon enters aiming mode where you can pick off ganados, 
 Illuminados, etc. with ease. It works every bit as well as all the first party stuff Nintendo has 
 been putting out. The game feels like it was made for the unique controls of the Wii.
  
  There are some slight complaints about the controls, however. Instead of the screen scrolling when 
 you aim to the side, you must manually move it by using the Nunchuk's analog stick. This feels 
 a bit awkward at first, especially if you're used to the PS2 or GCN controls. Also, sometimes it's 
 very distracting to have the crosshairs on the screen at all times. Allowing customization, such 
 as moving shooting to B and aiming to A, would have been nice as well.
  
  For those who may want a more classic feel, RE4 Wii Edition supports the Classic Controller attachment. 
 The sensitivity feels a bit to touchy, though, and the lack of rumble is unfortunate. The GameCube 
 controller can be plugged in and used as well, if the Nunchuk is unplugged from the Wii Remote, 
 but it treats it like the Classic Controller and doesn't feel like the original game because of 
 the sensitivity issue. The on-screen cues are also labeled with the Classic Controller buttons, 
 whether you are using the GameCube or Classic Controller. This is an unfortunate shortcoming, as 
 it means that this version does not necessarily displace the GameCube title completely. However, 
 it is worth noting that it does change back to the laser sight when you use either one of these 
 controllers. That would have been a nice customization option for the Wii Remote/Nunchuk setup 
 as well.
  
  The biggest thing you will notice about RE4 Wii Edition is that it was not thrown together. Unlike 
 the recent terrible PC version, this one was treated with care. It has all the incredible production 
 values from the GameCube version and all the extra features and unlockables from the PS2 version. 
 16x9 Widescreen and Progressive Scan are also supported in this version, unlike the GameCube. It's 
 too bad there weren't any noticeable upgrades to either the sound or the visuals, such as increasing 
 the antialiasing or fixing the strange clipping issue in some areas, but it was ahead of its time 
 when it came out, so it still looks and sounds impressive.
  
  RE4 Wii Edition has great new controls, but it feels as if there could have been something more 
 done with this version. More content would have been nice, but Capcom could have tweaked the enemy 
 AI a bit, tempered the difficulty level to be a bit tougher, and added a streamlined way to switch 
 weapons and grenades. Anything beyond that could have seriously messed with the flow of the game, 
 so it's good that it wasn't tampered with. There just could have been a bit more to make it truly 
 amazing as a special edition.
  
  In the end, those who invest in this version of the game will not be disappointed. None of the 
 extra content is anywhere near as polished or as slick and intense as the main game, but it all 
 is fun and worth checking out. This is a game for the ages, and though this isn't the perfect special 
 edition, it is a great one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amin915
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 9:52 pm PT
Review:  I Played resident evil 4 on the gamecube 4 countless of hours i passed that game over and over, 
 then the ps2 version came out and i did the exact same thing, i just could not get enough of this 
 game. When the Wii verison came out i played it again and was blown away the whole targeting system 
 witt he Wii remote gives it a whole new feel to the gameplay. I personally liked it alot better 
 when i went back to trying the gc version it felt very awkward. this title is a must own for all 
 Wii owners. The story is great the game play is balanced and at the end of the game you just cant 
 wait to do it all over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bruno_fmenedes
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2009 12:29 pm PT
Review:  --------------------------
  SCORE: ( ( ( 9.0 ) ) ) - (in a scale of 0.5 increments, without a formula)
  --------------------------
 
  Gameplay - ( 9 )
  Graphics -- ( 9 )
  Sound ------ (10)
  Value ------- ( 9 )
  --------------------------
  
  THIS REVIEW MENTIONS ONLY DIFFERENCES OF THIS VERSION. FOR A 
 MORE DETAILED REVIEW OF "RESIDENT EVIL 4", READ MY REVIEW OF THE GAMECUBE VERSION.
  
  THE GOOD:
    Elegant and intuitive Wii controls makes it exciting again to play this Modern-Classic;
 
    The controls were not streamlined (like making it possible to shoot while walking) , maintaining 
 the game hard and adventurous;
    Same fantastic graphics of the the Gamecube version, with an excellent artistic design that makes 
 it age at a slower pace than most games - one of the best looking games on the system;
    The sounds coming from the wiimote add another layer of depth to an already rich and immersive 
 sound quality of the game;
    Because the controls are less frustrating, this version is also the most re-playable, addictive 
 and immersive, especially for those who haven't played another version before;
    Has all the content of the PS2 version.
  
  THE BAD:
    The graphics are a little dated;
 
    No Wii exclusive content.
  
  FINAL WORDS:
  For those who don't mind some blood and gore in video-games and are old enough to play this M-rated 
 game, don't miss this Modern-Classic. Yes the game is violent, but with style and purpose and never 
 "over-the-top". 
  
  ESPECIAL NOTE:
  For those who still didn't play any version of this game, consider this score for Resident Evil 
 4: Wii Edition::
  --------------------------
  SCORE: ( ( ( 9.5 ) ) ) - (in a scale of 0.5 increments, without a formula)
  --------------------------
 
  Gameplay - ( 9 )
  Graphics -- ( 9 )
  Sound ------ (10)
  Value ------- (10)
  --------------------------
  Because it really is THAT good, even not being as groundbreaking 
 as it was in 2005. Because I believe that, if you buy this version before playing any other version, 
 the value deserves a ( ( ( 10 ) ) ) (ignoring the fact that the other versions now cost only 20$) , 
 for costing only 30$ and being more exciting and re-playable than the other versions.
  
  In the end, "Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition" is simply the finest version of quite possibly the finest 
 3rd-person-Action-Adventure game I've played since "The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time" for the 
 N64 - and that's already a huge achievement! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickmat_tycoon
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Wow! What a masterpice. The graphics are just incomparable to other wii games. Cooking Mama and 
 Resident Evil 4. What a gap. The Gameplay is amazing too. A must-have for anyone with a wii. It's 
 just the best wii game to date. Metroid Prime 3 is'nt nearly as good. They don't even compare. 
 The weapon choice is great too. I like the sound effects and how it makes it feel eerie and you 
 actually get startled from the game. It's so realistic, it's just amazing. If you have a wii and 
 not this, get it now, it is just a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fremefreak
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  This game was one of the first thrid person shooters i played on the gamecube, and i think the 
 only. I first tryed it in 2005 at a friends house and fell right in love at first sight. I got 
 the game about a month from the time i am writing this right now and i still play it hardcore. 
 It's scary tactics and perfet controls make this game one to remember. I always have a part in 
 the game to talk about with my friends when we play. It has a very solid campeign that keeps to 
 wanting more while you play. From bloodthirsy ganados to terrifiying regenerators, this game is 
 one of the best games on the wii and was one of the best on its past systems. I highly recomend 
 this game to anyone who hasn't played it ever, or to anyone who has a wii. Every thrid person shooter 
 should have the wii's controls. The only thing that made me want more, was wanting a multiplayer, 
 but we can't have everything can we. It would be awesome to have an online 8 player deathmatch 
 or a multiplayer merchenaries mode. Despite all of that, this is one of my favorite games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewkozis
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2007 4:33 am PT
Review:  Like i said in the classification 'just plain fun'. If you are luky enough to own a nintendo wii, 
 have some spare money, and have time. There is definately NO reason not to buy this game.
  
  We start of with the graphics, well as it is a port there not going to be any better than the 
 ps2 version of the game, it may be a port however the game still has better graphics than alot 
 of the other wii games to this date, so graphics are not a dissapointment at all.
  
  Gameplay is exeptional, the controls add a whole new feel to the game making it 10x more realistic 
 and overall a much better experience than the ps2 version, so even if you have already owned the 
 game it worth playing it again. The story is great and really there are no downsides at all to 
 the gameplay apart from a lack of multiplayer.
  
  The sound is probally another part of the game which is just simply outstanding, from the breathing 
 to the music it makes the games atmosphere more scary than most games, the amount of detail added 
 to the sound is really amazing. 10/10 for the sound.
  
  The game is cheaper than your standard wii games making it a real bargain of a game and is toatally 
 worth every penny/cent.
  
  This game is a MUST have for any wii owner whether you have played the game before or not. So i 
 definately reccomend it for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crmn-tao
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 5:11 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 : Wii Edition has all of contents with all plaforms and heres the content that 
 is combine to the Wii Edition, Gamecube graphics and PS2 extras. And it is only way to get the 
 Wii Version when it comes to be the best as you are a fan of Resident Evil. Sometimes, it's better 
 when you actually played on your Wii because it only has a circle thingy target, your Wii remote 
 motions (Dodging, Knifing, Rotating and Freeing) , and finally, the exciting PS2 extras (Which you 
 already heard of it) . Now, the aspect ratio of this is concern a widescreen mode instead of te 
 letter box mode (From Gamecube) but it does have letter box, too because you actually select the 
 4:3 scan mode at the Wii Settings. Now, from Ada's story: Seperate Ways, it is actually the same 
 thing as in PS2 but you know exactly how to play this as you doing the same thing as you playing 
 the original mode. However, this version had Ada with knife by all of mini-games. The difference 
 about this version is the extras because when you unlocking something (For example: a weapon after 
 you complete hard difficulty) , it gets change into the fast charge. The graphics are actually the 
 same but it gets perfect when you see all of environments when you actually played this game on 
 Gamecube before. Overall, Resident Evil 4 is still a masterpiece but it got some very interesting 
 stuffs like extras and others. This version is a must-buy and its got by all of platform modes. 
 And this one is keeping better as same as before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendowii107
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  re4 re4 re4 re4 re4 re4 re4r er4r rjetnor tgfurhgt rjfjtrkierjti jtt r r tr e t d ftg t tger e 
 r tyy gtf rg g t ghh gf ght g g g hy f ty f h gd r gh gt t gt ftr r t y r t hymu8 u y t yu y h 
 g t a fm k k kd d f g h h j k z xc v b n m ma s s d dq s 4 r t 5 5 55 5 53 3 4 56 tgf ff g gt r 
 g t t gf sa f g gh h g f ff h f f f gh hfh f f d g f gfg f g f f g f d f gf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjr10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 3:12 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil is a series well known for it's creepy atmosphere and zombie shooting. Also, it's 
 known for terrible voice acting and a even more horrible control scheme. But Resident Evil 4 changed 
 this control scheme. (Yes, the terrible one liners are still there) It's a drastic change to the 
 series. Will all the fans embrace it or will they go back to the basement and shove RE into there 
 playstation1?
  
  Leon S. Kennedy is a former cop. In his first day, he got himself involved in the incident in Racoon 
 city. (Yes, i am talking about RE2) He faced horrors there no man should face, there was an outbreak 
 of sorts and soon zombie's were all around. But he survived and the current year is 2004. Leon 
 now works for the government, and is a bodyguard for the presidents daughter, Ashley Graham. Of 
 course, she is kidnapped. She was last seen in a Europe village so, of course, Leon goes to retrieve 
 her. But it''s not going to be easy, as the locals here seem to be not too happy to see him. They 
 try to kill him at every turn, and there is even a few of them with deadly weapons, like dynamite, 
 axes and even chain-saws. (Trust me, whenever you hear the rev of that chain-saw, chills will go 
 down your spine.) It turns out these locals, also known as Ganado's, have been infected with parasites 
 called Las Plagas. He soon meets Luis Sera, a local who hasn't been infected. A woman from Leon's 
 past is also wandering around the village, with an agenda quite different from yours. . Resident 
 Evil's story's have always been great, and this is no exception, it makes you want to constantly 
 keep going. The only few short comings in it are the fact that Ashley seems to constantly be kidnapped, 
 and it gets annoying that you keep having to save her. Plus, you might not want to save her (she 
 gets on your nerves) , but if she dies, you'll get a game over screen. To rescue Ashley, you must 
 travel through a village, a castle and an island. (For a small town, they sure do have a lot of 
 land)
  
  Leon shoots all the enemies around, after all, it's a Action adventure game, but with some horror 
 moments in there. You basically travel from A to B, shooting as many enemies as possible, trying 
 not to be killed, and solving the occasional puzzle. Even if you have played RE4 on previous consoles, 
 this is still worth getting for one reason: the controls. They are so simple, yet so amazing. Use 
 the control stick to move Leon. Press "Z" to run. If you hold "C" it brings out your knife, which 
 you use by shaking the remote. It is a great idea, that's so simple, but just feels right. Shooting 
 is even more initiative. Simply point at the screen. Once you have your pointer over the specific 
 area (aim for the head) press B then A. If you run out of bullets, hold down B and waggle. In cut-scenes, 
 you may have to shake the remote or press buttons to prevent death. Be on your toe's in Cut-scenes, 
 don't go out to the kitchen, because when you come back, you may see a "You are dead" screen. You 
 are probably thinking "Waggle and shake?!" but it actually works here, and does not feel gimmicky. 
 These controls are great, and make help to make you feel more immersed in the world of a spanish 
 village.
  
  This game was originally made on the Gamecube. So this game is a mere port of the Gamecube game, 
 but with the added extra's from the Playstation 2 version. Even though it is from the last generation, 
 the graphics still hold up tremendously well. The lighting is what makes this game shine. For example, 
 eerie thunderstorms can light up the dark farm your slowly walking through. Also, the textures 
 are great. Leon has very few jaggles and you can actually make out some stitching on his clothes. 
 The other characters look just as good. Even the design of the Ganados are superb, with a red glow 
 in their eyes bringing fear to you. It's one of the prettiest games on the Wii, which is kind of 
 sad really, considering this is a last gen port.
  
  
  Resident Evil is all about the atmosphere. And atmosphere is made with silence. And music. Leon 
 will be walking down the corridor, with Ashley behind him, and there will be no sound, except for 
 the wind blowing the curtains and Leon and Ashley's footsteps on the carpet. Then, out of no where, 
 4 enemies appear, and the music builds up to this fast paced action song, which gets your heart 
 pumping. The music is great in this game, from the calm, relaxing music of one of the few safe 
 rooms, to the intense music of a boss battle. The voice acting is great as well. The only character 
 i thought had a bad voice was Ashley, but that may have been intentional, to fuel your hatred for 
 her. (Maybe that's why Leon does not accept the overtime?) Even the speaker in the Wii remote makes 
 a noise. The fire of gun shots come from the speaker, something you won't even notice while playing 
 but it is a great touch.
  
  Overall, you can expect to get at least 15 hours out of the main story. But once you are done you 
 unlock a "Professional" mode, which makes the game trickier for all the people who thought this 
 game was too easy. You also unlock a few other modes, like Mercenaries. In this game, you have 
 a time limit, and in that time limit you must kill as many ganado's as possible. Try to get combo's 
 and you might just unlock new weapons and characters! (Unfortunately, the characters are only for 
 mercenaries.) There are two games where you play as Ada Wong, the mysterious woman in the main 
 game. Separate Ways is a canon game that ties up plot holes in the main story, that will last about 
 4 to 5 hours. Assignment Ada isn't canon but is a fun little game anyway. So, you could end up 
 spending around 40 hours on this game.
  
  If you are worried about this game being scary, don't. Sure, there are a few moments where something 
 jumps out (the oven man, anyone?) that makes you go "Agh!' and you might jump and the game makes 
 your heart beat fast, as tension builds.
  
  Overall, this game is simply amazing. The gameplay is fun, the graphics are old, but they still 
 hold up and are very nice, the control's are perfect, the story is good but it seems to repeat 
 itself in parts and the music is atmospheric. It's one of the best games i've played, and it will 
 be for you too. Any Resident Evil fan would love this but anybody else will too.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GCrocksPS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  Resident evil 4, if you've seen my review, is the best game I've ever played. It virtually revolutionised 
 how I see them, and was the first game I'd played where the in game visuals were identical to the 
 FMVs. Wii edition is much the same, the same graphics, which, although not being a bad thing, still 
 look like a gamecube game. Same music. Same great 'oh no's everytime you shoot Ashley, same gory 
 death scenes. The wii remote allows for much more precise aiming, allowing you to pinpoint the 
 location and get accuracy in a way the gc pad never allowed. However, yes there is a but, one or 
 two minor flaws with the control system make reloading a pain in the ass. Instead of shaking the 
 nunchuk to reload, you have to shake the remote itself, which makes your aiming rectacle go haywaire 
 for a few seconds while you desperately shove another clip in your gun. Plus, the aiming rectacle 
 DOES NOT GO AWAY. It stays hovering wherever your remote is pointed for the entirety of the game, 
 which is not helpful if your trying to have a look around the room. Despite this, the experience 
 is no less enjoyable. There is no difference within this game that could have been made. The set 
 path is exactly the same, with no added anything (although this probably would have taken more 
 effort than Capcom needed anyway so it doesn't really matter) -something that might've helped spruce 
 the game up a bit. The added seperate ways, absent from the gc version, is a bonus though, and 
 allows gamecube players to delve deeper into the storyline than the two year old one allows. All 
 in all, despite a reloading issue and the conspicuous lack of extras, I saulute capcom for making 
 this move to bring us seperate ways and giving people who missed it first the chance to play it 
 on the wii. However, it has to be said that despite how brilliant this game is, it is rapidly approaching 
 its third birthday, and thus still feels like a three year old game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefanforlife
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil one of the most popular games to ever come out and here is Resident Evil 4 Wii edition 
 this has included content that was not in the Gamecube version. If you have'nt played Resident 
 Evil 4 before this one is just worth buying i was going to buy it on ps2 a while ago but im glad 
 i waited as i got this version instead. This version is better it feels more realistic with using 
 the Wii-mote and the Nunchuk. In this game you use the nunchuk to move around while you use your 
 Wii-mote to target and shoot.
  
  You play as Leon S Kennedy who is trying to find the President's daughter Ashley shes been kidnapped 
 by mysterious organization when finding her your going to fight zombies and a whole load of crazy 
 people. This is the best Resident Evil i have played it has the most realistic control systems 
 your going to get the story is really interesting. This is a game which will keep you busy for 
 about 14-16 hours maybe more. I paid &pound;29.99 for vouchers a got for free so the game was free 
 anyways love the game im glad i got the Wii version. Capcom know how to make true classics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrushedGroove
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  When Resident Evil 4 was released in 2005, most were surprised to see a mature game as an exclusive 
 to the Gamecube, and those without a Gamecube were disappointed to miss out on the newest installment 
 of the popular Resident Evil series.
  
  However, PS2 owners were rewarded with their patience months later with a special edition made 
 exclusively for Sony's best selling system that included a new weapon and various side missions. 
 If that wasn't enough, the PC was also graced with a rendition of Resident Evil 4 nearly two years 
 after the initial release, although a lack of mouse compatibility caused many to shy away from 
 this particular rendition.. Recently, Capcom opted for yet another release of the popular survival 
 horror title, this time on the Nintendo Wii.
  
  Personally, when I played RE4 for the first time on the Gamecube, I was blown away by the large 
 leaps the game had taken from its predecessors. The original random camera angles were replaced 
 with an over the shoulder view, providing a hybrid between first and third person views. The stereotypical 
 zombies were replaced with a faster, smarter breed courtesy of a parasite in the blood of villagers 
 inhabiting a small European town. Perhaps the most profound difference was the fact that Resident 
 Evil 4 offers twice as much gameplay as any of the other titles in the series to date. The standard 
 6-8 hours of play time was replaced with an astounding 15-18 hours. Needless to say, I was glued 
 to my Gamecube playing the game for quite some time.
  
  So was it time to let the title die for good, or was a release on the Wii a good call? The answer 
 my friends, is it was an excellent call. RE4 on the Wii just feels perfect, almost as if the game 
 was meant to be played on the system. It feels so familiar, yet so new and original, that I am 
 addicted to it all over again.
  
  The control scheme utilizes the nunchuck controller for movement, using the analog stick for player 
 control, the z button to run, and the c button to whip out your trusty knife. The remote is used 
 to aim the crosshairs, draw your weapon, fire, and access the various menus.
  
  The main story remains untouched, and the graphics look no different than the original Gamecube 
 version. The main difference, aside from the utilization of the Wii controls, comes in the form 
 of new side missions featuring the lovely and enigmatic Ada Wong.
  
  As I stated before, this game does not feel like a port in any way, and fits the Wii like a glove. 
 Not to mention that it comes with a very affordable $29.99 price tag, no Wii owner should pass 
 up the opportunity to check out Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shraylo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  I've never been a huge fan of RE4 on other systems. I first tried it out on PS2, and didn't really 
 care much for it. For one, it wasn't scary. Two, the controls were tough to get used to (for me 
 anyway) . Three, the aiming was a pain in the ass. Well, no more. Like a zombie, Resident Evil 4 
 has risen again, but this time it has updated graphics, and easier controls.
  
  The beef I have with this game is: no zombies. These things called Ganedo are smart, and they wield 
 chainsaws, and they also sport tentacles that come out when you blow their heads off. That's cool 
 and all... but I want zombies! This is perhaps because I haven't had enough experience with the 
 Resident Evil series (except for when I was a kid and played RE3... it scared the crap out of me) . 
 Another complaint I have, and it's not really a big one, is that this game just isn't scary enough. 
 It's as if the creators of the game tried REALLY HARD to make this game scary, but it just didn't 
 work. Silent Hill 3 scared the living bejesus out of me, and when playing in the dark by myself, 
 I couldn't continue and I would save and turn the PS2 off. However, here, it's more creepy than 
 anything else. It just doesn't do it for me, I'm sorry.
  
  Resident Evil 4 for Wii is a feast for the eyes, the ears, and the arms! The graphics are updated 
 slightly, and they look really sharp. The voice acting, as always, is excellent, and the new motion-sensitive 
 controls give Resident Evil 4 fans a new way to experience the game. No longer do you have to push 
 a button to do a knife attack. A knife attack is as simple as a swing of the Wiimote. Sometimes 
 I get a little crazy with it and hit Ashley by accident. Music is good where it's placed, although 
 it could be a little bit better, it helps to add to Resident Evil 4's creepy atmosphere. The voice 
 acting in this game is top notch, and you really get into the personalities of the characters. 
 So, if you are a Resident Evil 4 fan, migrating from PS2 to Wii, or GameCube to Wii, and the new 
 motion-sensitive controls interest you, you might want to pick this one up. If you're not, now 
 is the best time to get into this now 2-year old game, as this one is the best version yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Spectre_X
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  Released in 2005 on the Nintendo Gamecube, Resident Evil fan were skeptical about completely destroying 
 the franchise by bringing out Resident Evil 4, a game which relys heavy on Shooting and Pace.
 
  
  Back then, I wouldn't play Resident Evil 4 on my life. But two years after the release of the Gamecube 
 version, a Wii Edition was released. In that time I've heard how great the game is. So I decided 
 to give this budget price game a try.
  
  It. Is. Awesome.
  
  Storyline:
  
  You start off as Leon S Kennedy, Star of Resident Evil 2 who now works for the Government and has 
 to protect the President's Daughter. Unfortunately she is kidnapped and sighted in a rural part 
 of Spain. Soon, he finds out that the incident in Raccoon City 6 years ago was just a Kids story.
 
  
  The Storyline, from saying it, doesn't sound like the most original of ideas. But there is a great 
 twist to the regular, Damsel in Distress situation. And you'll find out that the plot is more out 
 of control than anything you've seen before.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The Gamecube version was bursting with great graphics. Pushing what the Gamecube (and even more 
 so, the PS2 version) to their limits. Especially if you've played the PS3 or 360, you'll see that 
 the Wii Edition graphics are starting to look dated. None-the-less, it was great back then, and 
 the Graphics are still beautiful and detailed. Gameplay:
  
  The Wii remote allows quick shot on shots. As the Enemies have different weak points. Like shooting 
 them in the arm will cause them to drop their weapon for example. You can upgrade your weapons 
 RPG style by increasing Firepower, Shooting Speed, Capacity and Reload speed. Which makes your 
 guns feel like your friends, not tools.
  
  To put it simply, its the one game that everyone has to buy, play and enjoy. No matter what age 
 you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phanrang
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 was one of the best games on Playstation 2 and Game Cube. This time it's for the 
 Wii with brand new controls and it's working better than ever. You aim and shoot with the Wii-mote 
 and control your character's movement with the nun chuck. This makes the gameplay alot better than 
 the previous versions of the game.
  
  The graphics are also beautiful even if they are two year old, so don't worry about the graphics 
 of this game feeling outdated because they are not. Resident Evil 4 is more like a side story than 
 a sequel to the Resident Evil series. This means that you don't have to play the previous games 
 to understand this one because there aren't any links between them. In Resident Evil 4 you take 
 the role as Leon S. Kennedy and are working on your mission to rescue the president's daughter, 
 Ashley. She has been kidnapped and is hostage in a village in Spain. What Leon don't know is the 
 villagers who are being infected by a virus. So his mission won't be as easy as you might think.
 
  
  The lenght of the game is also long. Once you finish the game, you will unlock different modes 
 and minigames which will keep you from leaving Resident Evil 4.
  
  Even if Resident Evil 4 is a port of a two year old game, it just doesn't feel like it. The controls 
 work very good which improves the gameplay alot. I recommend this title to anyone who likes action 
 and adventure games. Resident Evil 4 is clearly a must-have game in my eyes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmashMaster715
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is about as close to perfect as you can get (with this genre) . Capcom was able to increase 
 the action and intensity of the game significantly more than the previous titles of the series 
 with out losing the core gameplay and themes that the Resident Evil games have always been. The 
 graphics are incredible and the controls are great once you get used to them. For its $30 price 
 it is worth every penny and a must-have. Playing the game for the first time is an awesome adventure. 
 But when you complete the game you unlock many other modes that give this game surprising replay 
 value. This game is so good that its already a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asm607
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  This game was great on the gamecube when it was first released, but the wii version is even better. 
 I was instantly hooked when I started playing. The controls are fantastic, and the graphics are 
 some of the best I've seen on the wii. This game has great replay value also. This game is certainly 
 worth playing. I gave this game a ten because I simply could not find any flaws. The controls are 
 flawless and the game is just plain fun too. If you have ever played resident evil 0 or 1, don't 
 assume that this game is the same as those. It is much different. Instead of having a fixed camera 
 angle for each room, making it somewhat frustrating to see, this game uses a third person viewpoint, 
 making the game smoother and easier to control. I would recommend this game to anyone who is allowed 
 to play an M rated game (and even if you're not) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garygok
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition took roughly 24 hours to play through the first time, but one of the 
 good things about this game is that it doesn't have to end there. It's a game that took me a little 
 while to get into but once I did I had to play through it's entirety.
  
  The game starts you off searching a creepy village for signs of the President's daughter, you will 
 spend most of the game in pursuit of her.
  
  The graphics are descent though not quite what I would like them to be with its lack of sharpness. 
 There are some pretty gruesome visuals as heads explode while the body it was on may continue to 
 walk for a few moments. Scenes of operation tables with gruesome looking contents tell you that 
 RE4 did earn its M rating so parents may want to watch out for this one.
  
  The camera works well and is a non-issue as it remains diligently behind you just off your right 
 shoulder.
  
  The soundtrack is good, ranging from thrilling to downright creepy. The sound of that one enemy 
 off in the distance is enough to add to the stress level because you know he's gonna show up about 
 3 inches from your face.
  
  Sound plays a good part in the game and you must pay attention to them, since a loud clanging getting 
 closer and closer might be a good thing to try and run away from or locate and kill... There were 
 a lot of occasions when you can hear something but can't quite see what it is until its right up 
 your bum which led to some nice creepy moments.
  
  Voice acting of the various characters ranges from good to great providing some entertaining characters.
 
  
  Controls were pretty good though I thought it felt a little sluggish at times, particularly when 
 rotating your character. You'll be prompted at various times to shake the remote to complete actions 
 such as sprint, cut rope or swim. Every once in a while you will have to react quickly to a button 
 combo displayed on the screen in order to get out of a sticky situation. You can perform a powerful 
 kick attack but only after staggering and enemy, this attack extra damage and also to conserve 
 ammo (which is a constant theme throughout the game) . You'll face several different types of enemies, 
 using different strategies for each, whether its what weapon hurts them most or a soft spot to 
 shoot at to bring em down.
  
  You'll also deal with a lot of mini puzzles in order to advance. A lot of them being the standard 
 scour for key, insert key here kind of situation. Puzzles were mostly pretty simple, the difficulty 
 definitely lies in killing all the enemies before they kill you which can be a challenge in some 
 situations as they might be coming at you in droves.
  
  Every once in a while you will come across a Merchant who is usually accompanied by a save point. 
 Here you can buy weapons, sell weapons and items and tune your weapons. With tuning you can increase 
 power, firing and reload speed and ammo capacity. Also every once in a while the merchant will 
 offer you a new weapon which are for the most part a good upgrade.
  
  There were some pretty memorable fights as some of the boss fights would have you pitted against 
 a rather large and intimidating foe. Even on your way to the boss you may run into one or two special 
 enemies that are particularly tough.
  
  The video clips could have transitioned more smoothly, such as going from cut scene to game or 
 when Leon would have to talk on his radio.
  
  I would have liked kicking and using knives was a more reliable way to advance. Many times I found 
 myself taking a hit instead of dishing one when attempting this, though I'm sure if a person focused 
 on it they could get better at it. I would also like to see more situations where these would be 
 your optimal choices for combat.
  
  It would also have been nice to be able to strafe left and right.
  
  Clearing RE4 for the first 
 time will unlock a new difficulty level as well as a few other goodies that give this title a descent 
 replay value.
  
  All in all a very solid title that I think you will have fun with. If you can't decide but have 
 been thinking about it, at least give it a rent, it is worth it in my opinion as it is one of the 
 best games I have tried thus far for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BEYOND-CREATION
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 3:34 am PT
Review:  Resident evil 4 , wii edition is a very challenging game , breath taking and exciting !!!!
  You play as Leon , a former cop , who is on a mission to rescue the president's daughter from the 
 living dead ! Horribly mutated , the try stopping you from reaching the rescue point after rescuing 
 the president's daughter . after meeting with several characters who's story is yet mysterious 
 .
  
  You face challenges , merchants , abandoned houses , and dead human leftovers .... no doubt this 
 game will reach to your bones ! horror , excitement , mystery , .... all of which make the game 
 a very nice wii play !
  
  9.5 / 10 ! for all who like mature games , this is a must ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voodooline
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  I haven't even finished the game, but i must say that this is by far the best RE experience to 
 date. The story is compelling, sound is very well done, voice acting is at its best. With the wii 
 mote i feel as if i am Leon trying with all that i am to rescue Ashley. When i reload my gun and 
 hear the click through the speaker it sends chills up and down my spine. When im down to my last 
 clip of bullets, my palms begin to sweat in anticipation of what lies ahead. Realizing that i need 
 to conserve my last clip or fail at my mission. The gameplay is excellent and the graphics are 
 great (yes 360 and ps3 are the best but we aren't playing wii for graphics now are we kids.) Sound 
 is great and creepy at times. The lighting is perfect for the atmosphere of the game. The puzzles 
 are great and get your mind thinking. Its Highly addictive and will keep you on the edge of your 
 seat until the end. (I haven't finished it yet but don't see it changing at all) It is a must have 
 for the Wii and i highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harsadi
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2007 8:36 pm PT
Review:  The best in series, everything has been improved from the previous Resident Evils. Although no 
 new content for the Wii version, this game still makes an impact with its new controller, the Wii 
 remote. I had a lot of fun shooting with the remote it just pulls you in the game almost like being 
 part of a movie. RE4 is one of a few game that actually gives a very nice movie experience, the 
 developers really put a lot of effort on making a game that could be turned into a movie. The replay 
 value is perfect, you see, after a player finishes the game, new features are unlocked and lets 
 you play the game over and over again with a new look and feel from the new difficulty level, weapons 
 and costumes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: writer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Like many out there that have played resident evil 4 for GameCube or PS2, I bet that you were feeling 
 skeptical about what to expect about playing a two year old game. Well, not only is this one the 
 best games in the RE series, but it's also one of the best games on the Wii. Being an obvious port 
 from the other two releases, this game possesses the strength and polish to be another major hit 
 for the system. It combines awesome gun-play mechanics into one hell of a story. I guarantee that 
 you won't be disappointed about this game. This is a definite must have for anyone trying to expand 
 on their Wii collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLACK_ROSE_WAR
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  So maybe it is the same as the last two versions, Just with different controls, and slightly higher 
 difficulty, but what a treat, who can say that they really do enjoy moving some stupid stick to 
 aim?... I don't, how is that fun?...
  I mean yeah, RE4 was really fun, the first 10 times I beat it! But it was just to easy, At least 
 here, my condition determines my shooting, I feel more apart of the experience in this one, plus 
 since I never got the PS2 version, I can finally get a try at that extra content!
  
  If you loved RE4 the first time, and now want a fresh try at it, this should give you the feeling 
 of the first time you played, except you know where everything is... If you never played the game 
 then this one should be a good first timer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oroeovo
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  You've read previous reviews of any version of resident evil 4 and you know the game is great. 
 I am reviewing the wii controls here. First, my initial reaction is total disappointment. There 
 is no additional graphical polish from the gamecube version and the controls are almost the same. 
 You still look around with the joystick on the nunchuck. The wiimote does not enable you to look 
 around by pointing. The d-pad on the wii mote takes on the role of the yellow or right thumb stick 
 on the gamecube and ps2 controller. What the wiimote does do is puts a cross hair you can move 
 around the screen that makes head shots much easier. But again, if you want to look (not aim) left, 
 right, up or down you will have to use the joystick. If you haven't played it pick it up. If you 
 have keep in mind you get no bonuses from having the gamecube memory card with the completed game 
 in your wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxfall2pieces
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely one of the best games on the Wii. For some reason I never bought it when 
 i had GameCube, but I am so glad i was able to buy it for the Wii. At first I rented the game, 
 which made me instantly addicted. So then I bought it and for the cheaper price of $30 it is definitely 
 worth it!
  
  Every aspect of this game is great. The controls are awesome, and the story is also very good. 
 The sound effects are great and the scary music only adds to the game. When there are enemies near 
 there will most likely be creepy music to go along with it, and it makes the game even better. 
 Hearing the calls of the zombies or a chainsaw start up makes you feel like you are a part of the 
 game.
  
  My favorite part of the game is the way you use the Wii controller. I love that you aim at the 
 screen to shoot things, and also the way you can move the controller to reload, or take out your 
 knife. This game has a long story mode that will keep you playing for hours and hours and the price 
 of $30 gives you even more reason to pick this up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squidney2k1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Story: 7/10
  
  For the main game, you play as Leon S. Kennedy, the rookie cop from Resident Evil 2. It's been 
 6 years since the Raccoon City incident, and Leon is no longer a rookie, or a cop. He's a highly 
 trained agent for the U. S. Government, sent to Europe to locate Ashley, the recently kidnapped 
 daughter of the President. He soon discovers that the village he investigates is full of zombie-like 
 people. They're not quite zombies: they're violent and only want to kill outsiders, but they're 
 smart too. You must rescue Ashley and find out what is behind the insanity of the villagers.
  
  The plot does have a few twists and other characters (including characters from previous RE 
 games) that Leon meets, but nothing really mind-blowing happens. The story serves its purpose without 
 having too many cutscenes: just the right amount. Later in the story there are some connections 
 to previous RE games, so RE4 is definitely not an unimportant side story like some people say. 
 It sets up the new story arc for future games.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  The graphics were top-notch for the GC, and they have been perfectly ported over to the Wii. The 
 problem is that they weren't enhanced at all to take advantage of the Wii's more powerful hardware. 
 I can't really complain since this isn't a new game, it's just a port, and enhanced graphics were 
 never promised. There are still some jaw-droppingly gorgeous moments in the game. The fire effects 
 have to be seen to be believed, and Leon's character model looks next-gen and is well-animated, 
 especially in the cutscenes when you see facial animation and mouth movements. There are some textures 
 that look pretty blurry by today's standards, and could have been enhanced a bit. 480p and 16:9 
 support is there, but it's a shame that we can't see RE4 in true HD glory. The Wii's hardware shortcomings 
 are becoming more and more apparent with each title released, and one has to question the lack 
 of HD support as clearly a WTF?! error on Nintedo's part.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  Just as perfect as it was on the Cube. Every gunshot, scream, and piece of music seems perfectly 
 in place. The music always fits the mood, whether it's a quiet ambient piece or loud action packed 
 music. Voice acting is good, which is surprising since almost all of the old RE games had bad voice 
 acting.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  The most important part of a game, and where RE4 truly shines.
  
  This game has a lot of escorting 
 Ashley around while fighting Ganados (your typical zombie-like enemy) and other monsters. She's 
 smart enough to duck out of the way though so you can shoot enemies behind her, and she helps you 
 do certain things throughout the game. If an enemy grabs her, you'll have to chase down the enemy 
 and shoot them to get her free. If an enemy takes her to a door, it's game over. Escorting Ashley 
 never gets boring, and she'll always split up with you just before you get tired of watching her.
 
  
  There are a lot of weapons you get in the game, such as handgun, shotguns, rocket launchers, machine 
 guns, and even the Mine Thrower from RE3. You'll need this variety of weapons to face off against 
 an equally varied assortment of enemies. The different monsters you fight have different weaknesses, 
 so you'll need to pick the right weapon for the right occasion. It's always exciting to run into 
 a new type of monster, and the boss fights are all amazing too.
  
  Your weapons and items are all stored in a large inventory. No more extremely limited item space 
 like past RE games! By collecting money from fallen enemies, or by finding treasures or money chests 
 in secret areas and breakable boxes, you can buy upgrades for your weapons (firepower, speed, and 
 ammo clip size) and increase the size of your inventory. This system is very flexible, allowing 
 people to play the game in many different ways to suit their style.
  
  There are also a few puzzles scattered throughout the game, only some are good but most are small 
 distractions. I guess Capcom wanted to keep some of the old RE spirit alive.
  
  This version of the game also features the extra content that the PS2 version had. The extras are: 
 5 bonus missions as another character, another costume set, and a new weapon. The new missions 
 are pretty lackluster, and mostly just a rehash of the main game. 4 out of the 5 just recycle old 
 areas! The bonus costumes are cool, but you can't see them in the cutscenes. Very lame. The new 
 P. R. L. 412 weapon is a laser that homes in on enemies and does a one hit kill. Also, you can use 
 it infinitely. It's kind of unnecessary, since there were 3 other powerful infinite-use weapons 
 already from the original version of the game.
  
  Replay Value: 10/10
  
  The main game is about 20 hours the first time you play it. After that, there are the extra missions 
 that show more story which take about 4 hours to finish all together.
  You'll want to play the story mode again too, since finishing the game for the first time unlocked 
 a hard mode and extra costumes and weapons. It's also just plain fun to play through multiple times, 
 and to try using different weapon sets. I've played the story mode at least 50 times now.
  
  My favorite extra is called The Mercenaries, which is an insane action game with 4 arena style 
 levels and 5 different playable characters. Your goal is to kill anything that moves, and rack 
 up high combos while surviving on a time limit. It's addicting and extremely replayable, as you 
 attempt to beat your high scores.
  
  Controls: 10/10
  
  The Wii controls are the big change to this version of the game, and the only thing that could 
 have potentially gone wrong. Thankfully, the controls are great. Aiming with the Wii remote has 
 perfect sensitivity and accuracy. Using the knife is easier too: just swing the remote to quickly 
 use your knife and auto-target nearby enemies (you can still access the knife with a button press 
 if you don't like remote swinging) . The only downside to the controls is that the game feels easier, 
 although that might just be because I've played the game a lot already. Newcomers may still find 
 a challenge.
  
  Even if you don't like the motion sensitive controls, you can still use the GameCube controller, 
 or the Wii's Classic Controller. These controls function the same as usual, so there's really no 
 excuse to complain about controls for this game.
  
  Overall (Final Score) : 9.5/10
  
  This is the definitive version of a modern classic. It combines the best elements of previous versions 
 of the game while adding the option of using a new control scheme.
  
  Sell your old versions and buy this, or buy this if you never played any version. It's a budget 
 priced release people! You have no excuse to miss this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dd-55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  i pass that game and is owesome i recommend it to anyone, the best is when you beat the game you 
 can play in mercenary mode, in that mode you learn a lot, and also you can beat the game all the 
 time that you want. after you beat the game you start with all the weapons that you had when you 
 beat it so its adictive to beat the game many times. the controllers are so easy to play is so amazing 
 when you are playing and you feel like you are a part of the game you think that you are in the 
 game , so if you dont have this game hurry up go and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vicnash
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  If there is any game or genre where the wii mote really shines, its Resident Evil 4. Even if it 
 came out a couple of years ago, the controls really are fast and fluid. Anyways here are the specifics.
 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Was awesome 2 years ago, its still awesome now, for the time beign anyways before the release of 
 resident evil 5. Anyways, Beautiful art, whether it's character or level design. The cut scenes 
 are excelent, better if you play at night for frightfull scenes and game.
  
  SOUND:
  In this series, it keeps getting creepier. Although the spanish zombies keep repeating the one 
 liners. But with a game this entertaining, who cares!
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Actually better with the Wii remote. Lots of variety in missions and challenges. Some waggle motions 
 work well, the best is when using the knife. With a game this big, a +20 hour single player will 
 keep you busy for a while. It includes the extra missions that the gamecube version did not have.
 
  
  Overall, its been almost a year since the Wii launched, and I can easily say that resident evil 
 4: wii edition is the best one so far from this consoles short life (and the best of any console 
 to date) . Specially when games like zelda, mario games, etc have come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: movin_target
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  Hello
  Now that im done beating Resident evil 4 Wii Edtion I can write a review about it. Let me say this 
 game is great.
  
  First off I gotta say the controls work perfectly, from moving around, to doing on screen commands. 
 So its pretty straight forward, you move with the nunchuck and you aim, shoot, and knife with the 
 Wii-mote. Also they replaced the on screen commands, like for one command its just waving the remote 
 back and forth to get up a ledge or run from a boulder. Also its pretty cool that they let you 
 use the Gamecube controller and the Cla-ssic controller. The only complain I have is that it makes 
 the game a bit easier.
  
  The graphics are nice I like the games lighting effects, and texture quality. Like in one part 
 of the game your running around at night near a church and when your next to a fence when lightning 
 strikes a shadow comes off the fence and goes away when the flash of lightning is over.
  
  Gameplay is insanely fun shooting ganados and stuff. But the main objective in the game is saving 
 the Presidents daughter but everything goes wrong when you get her. As in most games. The AI is 
 pretty good but sometimes they have dumb moments when they throw dynomite at you. They throw it 
 at a wall and blow up. Also there is a merchent in the game, he sells, tunes up, and buys stuff, 
 youll be going to him alot. Speaking of the merchent money is something you dont want to waste 
 because the wepons, tune ups, Attache cases are expensive. Also ammo isnt something to waste either 
 becuase at times youll run out of it at dire moments.
  
  Sound is good it fits the atmosephere of the game. It makes things spooky from the creepy Erie 
 music the really loud footsteps coming behind you. I got to say the gunshots, and wepons noises 
 are cool, and when you reload the sound of reloading comes out of you wiimote speaker. The voice 
 acting is nice... but some of the dialog is cheesy.
  
  Value = great because you get The main game, plus 3 different control types, plus all the gamecube, 
 and ps2 content, for only 30$
  
  Overall its a must buy for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazza28
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  Although I am a huge Nintendo fan, I have never played this game on the Gamecube. And that's a 
 shame, since this game is known as the second-best rated game for the cube in all-time (After Metroid 
 Prime) . Now I have a wii and to my excitement, RE 4 has returned. This was my chance to see if 
 this game truly is the classic which everyone's talking about.
  
  I can tell you, the moment I started I fell for the instant atmosphere this game has. Somewhere 
 in the game, I heard somebody starting up a chainsaw. It really gave me the creeps when I saw a 
 zombie running at me and decapitate me.
  
  At this moment I knew I was dealing with an instant classic in the horror-genre. Sure the graphics 
 could have been better on the Wii, but they are abolutely not ugly in my opinion. The sound is 
 brilliant, with great sound effects and fantastic background music. The boss battles are fascinating 
 (I really enjoyed the first boss-battle in the water!) , cut-scenes are good, with nice dialogue 
 and humor.
  
  I really can't say what I didn't like about the game, maybe the slow turning of the main character. 
 As I said before, this is an instant classic, especially with the low pricing. So if you haven't 
 played this game before, BUY IT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edgegot2bechamp
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  i have before played this game on the gamecube and i thought it was definately the best game on 
 the gamecube and maybe second or third best game overall. But this game just got twice as good 
 on the wii. with the added content the better more intuitive controls make this game a must buy 
 for all wii owners. The downside is sometimes ashley gets anoying the the voice acting could be 
 better but after a while you accept it then its just the best game ever. So to summarize if you 
 own a wii you should definatly buy this game. its only 30$ and its better than most wii games out 
 there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: backinthekrak
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  As someone who played the ps2 version over and over (and over) , I was really looking forward to 
 starting all over again with the Wii-mote. Like many have said before, once you 'get it', the controls 
 seem intuitive and natural but the downside is that it makes the game MUCH easier than it was on 
 other consoles. You have NO reason to miss a single shot on the Wii version, something that helps 
 dramatically in a game like this where conserving ammo is an absolute must. I know that playing 
 it many times before certainly helped me with strategy, etc. but still you can tell in the first 
 encounter in the village about 20 minutes in that it's less challenging. In the ps2 version, I 
 died there lots of time before the church bell tolled and the freaks left me alone (you'll see 
 when you play...) but I coasted through this time. Having said all this, I still LOVE THIS GAME 
 and THIS VERSION, it's just not the challenge that other versions are. Otherwise, it's fantastic 
 with the creepy atmosphere and a-little-too-close-for-comfort action that makes you actually lean 
 away from the tv time after time trying to avoid the rush of zombies (laught at me now, but you 
 will do it too!) . Throw in the 29.99 price tag and you have everything you need to hack through 
 zombie flesh for hours and hours - enjoy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vader2k3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  It's been a 10 years since Capcom blew us away with Resident Evil back in 1997. However it appears 
 that they haven't lost their edge. With Resident Evil 4 for the Wii. Resident Evil 4 first made 
 its debut on Gamecube in 2006 then 2007 on PS2 and now on the Wii. With the Wii you are able to 
 be in total control. You are able to aim where ever you want, yeah you could do that on PS2, but 
 this way feels more realistic. Unlike the previous R. E. games where you kill zombies, in R. E. 4 
 you kill villagers that have been infected with a parasite. Let the gore begin!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robert-Sapolski
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 Wii edition is the definitive version of Resident Evil 4. The original game came 
 out on the Game Cube in early 2005. Back then the game was an instant classic gaining a huge reputation. 
 The game was released again later that year on the PS2 with some extra missions bundled in. Again 
 the game gained huge critical acclaim. Earlier this year the PC version was released with more 
 extra missions and now we hit the Wii edition. The Wii edition is essentially all of these games 
 bundled into your Wii with an exciting new control scheme.
  
  The game takes place in 2004 six years after the events of Resident Evil 2 and 3. You play Leon 
 Kennedy, a survivor from from Resi 2 who's an American agent looking for the presidents kidnapped 
 daughter. You start the game in the middle of some woods in Eastern Europe searching for her. You 
 search soon leads away from these places as you make your way to castles, labs and other horrific 
 locations. The graphics are generally really good for a Wii game but you don't tend to really care, 
 by the time you play the first 5 minutes your engrossed.
  
  The gameplay in Resi 4 Wii edition is what really makes it stand out. This is largely due to the 
 awesome control system. You move Leon with the right stick on the nunchuck, then when you want 
 to aim you hold B aim at the screen with the remote and fire with A. There are a couple other neat 
 control tricks to learn along the way but I won't spoil them. The remote gives you pin point accuracy 
 against your foes, it may be slightly less precise than the king mouse and keyboard but it will 
 make you never want to pick up a dual analogue again. Everything about the controls just feels 
 right and you begin to think why don't all games control this good?
  
  Resident Evil 4 is one intense game. Because you can't move when your aiming you become very afraid 
 as enemies lurk towards brandishing all sorts of deadly weapons. The shooting never seems to become 
 repetitive because the controls are so intuitive. It does sometimes feel more like a shooter than 
 a survival horror game but as you progress the horror builds. Most cutscenes in the game require 
 you to press button combinations to do certain movements otherwise you lose health etc. This is 
 very clever as it doesn't only keep the cutscenes intense but also requires you to pay attention 
 to the great story. They wouldn't make you watch the cutscenes if the story wasn't good, and it 
 is, very.
  
  A huge part of the game and it's story are the bosses. The game features around 10 boss fights, 
 most of which made me swear. They look so cool and so scary at the same time. The best part is 
 that each of them are a joy to fight, thankfully they aren't as frustrating other Resident Evil 
 games. They keep you on the edge of your seat the whole time and just working out how in hell your 
 supposed to kill them is great fun, which is rare for a boss fight. The game is also slightly on 
 the hard side but once you get through it, it's very satisfying.
  
  Resident Evil 4 may have a new control scheme compared to the old games but it still manages to 
 keep it's horror moments. Numerous times I have cursed loudly at my TV when people leap out of 
 places you don't expect them to or you see a very deadly foe coming for you. These moments aren't 
 very often but when they come around they are awesome.
  
  The main story lasts about 14 - 18 hours depending on how good you are or how much you want to 
 look around for cool stuff. The game features a very cool upgrade system for your weapons which 
 gives the game a huge amount of depth and replay value as certain scenarios are affected by which 
 weapon your using and how good it is. Resi 4 features an assortment of cool weapons which when 
 fully upgraded are so deadly. Beyond the main game there are also extra missions and bonus games 
 to play after you complete the game for the first time. I won't lay them all out as they could 
 potentially ruin the story but they will give you another 6 - 10 hours of gameplay.
  
  Overall Resident Evil 4 Wii edition is one of the best games on the Wii at the moment. If your 
 into your shooters, story driven or horror games pick this up as you will not be disappointed. 
 The game controls great, it keeps you on your edge and concludes with a great ending leaving you 
 eager for some Resident Evil 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rangel_19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  This game is a must have for all you Resident Evil Fans out there. I played it before on the Gamecube 
 and boy was that amazingly fun. The graphics on the Wii edition is a direct port from Gamecube.
 
  
  But playability is much better on the Wii! Because you use the WiiMote and Nunchuk for this game, 
 now that's awesome!!! :D
  
  This is one hell of game to play, so if you guys haven't tried it before on the Gamecube or PS2, 
 then you better try it on the Wii! You will never go wrong on buying or playing this game because 
 it is one hella of an experience!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Themasterjov
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2007 12:43 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 is one of the greatest horror games of all time and this is one of the greatest 
 Resident Evil Games Of All time So Get Your Hands On One Because you will enjoy it even if you 
 don't like horror shooting games this is the time to start because it is worth the time, the game 
 is great and the charecters but the only problem that i can find is the story because i don't think 
 leon would risk his life for the presidents- get the game and find out for yourselfs i'm not telling 
 you so what are you waiting for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkWatchman
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 4, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Oh my god the Wii edition is really awesome but the controls seem to be a little harder to get 
 use to. It's just that ppl spent $60 or $50 when it first game out on gamecube ppl bought game 
 cube just to get it and then they moved it to ps2 then to pc then not but least Nintendo Wii. I 
 still give it a 10 cause all the stuff they added are great but some is kinda weird. But if ur 
 getting a Wii get this. Get this even if u wasted all ur money on the game cube , Ps2 , Pc versions 
 just still get this game it rules. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainfork
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 4, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  The aim of this review is to present a review of Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition for those that are 
 considering buying the game but do not want to slog through the long reviews; instead, I'll try 
 to highlight the important aspects of the game.
  
  RE4: Wii Edition is, importantly, not an original game. It was first created for the Gamecube a 
 few years back, and it is now hitting its fourth release. Consequently, Capcom has had plenty of 
 time to enhance the game.
  
  There has been no new material added to the game since the Playstation version, but the Playstation 
 material has received a graphical update.
  
  All of the original aspects of the game that made it so great in the first place are in tact, and 
 are made even better by the great control scheme that is exclusive for the Wii. The controls feel 
 natural after minimal time with the game, from the point-to-aim shooting to the slashing for the 
 knife. Consequently, RE4: Wii Edition is simply more fun to play.
  
  Some have pointed out that the difficulty drops because of the better controls; while this might 
 be true, the difficulty level is still high enough to keep the player on his/her toes (try professional 
 mode for a more thrilling experience) .
  
  All in all, RE4: Wii Edition is the best version of the game to date. It gives an extremely satisfying 
 experience and offers plenty of reasons to play the game again and again. (The score I gave the 
 game is not based on prior versions; rather, I scored it on a stand-alone basis.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ponmop
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  I was skeptical about Capcom re-releasing Resident Evil 4 for the Wii. I was almost expecting another 
 poor port with tacked on gimmicky Wii controls. What I got was so much more. RE4 offers some of 
 the best implementation of Wii specific gameplay yet. Aiming with the Wii remote is incredibly 
 accurate, satisfying, and above all else, fun. Sure it's pretty much just a Gamecube game in terms 
 of graphics, as well as having the extra content from the PS2 port, but the experience of playing 
 RE4 on the Wii is no less incredible or enjoyable. In my opinion, Capcom took their already nearly 
 perfect game, and made it even better. As for value, you can't go wrong at $30 for this much game. 
 I've easily put in over 40 hours so far replaying the campaign over and over and unlocking all 
 of the bonus goodies. My friend and I have even been locked in an epic struggle for the last month 
 to see who can get the highest score in the addictive Mercenaries mini game. (I won, by the way, 
 with 193,340 points in the castle with Krauser.)
  
  Even if you have another version of the game, it is well worth your time and money to pick this 
 bad boy up. As of right now, it's tied with Zelda: TP for my second favorite Wii game, behind only 
 the superb Metroid Prime 3. It is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sieg6529
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 is the best in the series, and I'm here to tell you why. Resident Evil 4 is supposedly 
 a side-story to the main RE plotline. I don't know if I agree with that, but here's the backstory. 
 Umbrella is defunct, and Leon is now a Secret Services type who's been assigned to rescue Ashley, 
 the daughter of the US president (nothing modeled after reality, thank goodness) . Leon is sent 
 to rural Europe based on a lead. Once there, he learns everyone is infected with a parasite (que 
 se llaman Las Plagas) that makes them virtual slaves to the leader of their religious cult, Los 
 Illuminados. They've kidnapped Ashley to make her a puppet in the eventual hope of toppling the 
 USA and eventually (duh) the world. Leon, with the involvement of some familiar faces, must stop 
 them.
  
  The graphics seemed great to me, especially compared to prior installments. The areas seemed so 
 huge compared to the cramped corridors so often found in other RE games. And despite the huge increase 
 in size, the areas still were exceptionally well-detailed. All the main characters were very well 
 designed and didn't appear pixelated or clippy. I would have liked to have seen more variation 
 in los Ganados, especially those in the villages. With only 4 male types and 2 female types, it 
 does get old killing Don Pedro 500 times. Other than ganados, there are infested dogs (of course) , 
 a salamander the size of a yacht, infested soldiers and cult members, free-roaming parasites, giant 
 mutated locusts, the colossal Gigantes, los Verdugos (executioners that protect one of the more 
 prominent antagonists) , and the Regenerators. I hate those last ones soooo much. The make this 
 disgusting snuffling sound as the shuffle around, and they are only stoppable by sharpshooting 
 the parasites within (using thermal-imaging scopes, of course) . As this game takes place in rural 
 Spain which is never explicitly stated, but being in Europe where everyone speaks Spanish (castellan) , 
 you kinda know where it takes place. As such, the villagers, known as ganados (cattle) , speak only 
 Spanish. So you hear things like te voy a matar (I'm going to kill you) or a por el! (after him!) 
 over and over again. There's actually quite a bit of variety and vulgarity in the phrases, and 
 it is a lot of fun to decipher their words. So, that being said, the overall sound is great. This 
 is, by far, the best voice-acting in a Resident Evil game ever. The music is satisfactorily creepy 
 and tense, which we've all come to expect. Nothing grand, but perfect for this type of game. The 
 controls are great, if a bit unimaginative. Instead of a fixed-camera angle game, RE4 takes an 
 over-the-right shoulder perspective, which is perfect for putting the crosshairs right on target. 
 The nunchuk controls movement and viewing (and the knife, but I always used the other option) , 
 while the Wiimote controls everything else. The trigger button readies the weapon while the A button 
 fires. The Wiimote itself is used to position the cursor on screen, which makes for very intuitive 
 targeting. I would have liked to have seen different striking angles for the knife other than just 
 a horizontal swipe. Speaking of which, however, I am very pleased with the knife now being a useful 
 weapon. I used to it conserve tons of ammo by shooting the enemies in the knees and then cutting 
 like a madman. Also, there's one boss that is best defeated using the knife...
  
  As a rescuer, Leon must now deal with seeing to the survival of the president's daughter. Unless 
 she's wearing her 2nd special costume, this girl is as frail as blown glass. About the only damage 
 she can shrug off is an egg to the face (yes, you can do that) . Other than that, you must not ever 
 shoot her. This is difficult when enemies are swarming all over her, especially with certain penetrating 
 munitions. Sometimes Leon can guide her to safety or shut her away in a lockbox while he deals 
 death, but often times she needs to be told to wait somewhere that Leon can observe and guard while 
 weathering the onslaught. This RE introduces a market system. Early on, Leon begins finding money. 
 Though not initially used for anything, a merchant appears later who can sell Leon new weapons, 
 buy treasures Leon has accumulated, and upgrade Leon's current weapons. It's not possible to have 
 all weapons at there highest upgrade, and it wouldn't make sense to do so. For example, Leon's 
 first pistol is rendered obsolete once you earn the Punisher. So there's no point in keeping both. 
 Some weapons have but one replacement (like the rifle) , others have two (such as the shotgun) , 
 others have many (pistols) , and some have none (mine dart launcher) . Unfortunately, you cannot 
 buy ammunition or herbs from the merchant, but you can buy 1st Aid spray and larger carrying cases. 
 Like any good Res Evil game, you are rewarded for your efforts. When you beat the game the first 
 time around, you get to keep all your inventory and pesetas (the system of money in Spain) . Also, 
 you then have the option to purchase a rapid-fire pistol and an infinite rocket launcher (very 
 expensive) . After beating the Pro difficulty level, you also gain access to the PRL, which is a 
 one-hit-kill weapon that makes the game waaaay to easy. You can also earn new weapons and costumes 
 by completing the extra missons involving Ada or the survival-like Mercenaries mode. Basically, 
 if you have a Wii, and especially if you haven't played one of the previous versions, you MUST 
 play Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  I have already made a review about the original Resident Evil 4 on the GameCube so in this one 
 I will focus on the aspects of which are different in this Wii version of RE4.
  
  Graphics are slightly better than what you saw on the GameCube and already then this was a beautiful 
 game to look at. Nothing mind-blowing here, but you will notice the difference. Also the loading 
 times are shorter so it&acute; s pretty much a seamless experience from start to finish taking 15 
 to 25 hours to play through.
  
  The main thing in Wii Edition is of course the controls and they work perfectly: I personally don&acute; t 
 want to go back and play with a gamepad after getting used to a wiimote and a nunchuck. Shooting 
 is now easier and this means less frustration in an intense battle. Easier aiming also creates 
 a more satisfying feeling after finishing a bunch of enemies.
  
  Extras include true widescreen display and an HD-TV support. The meat in extras is Separate Ways, 
 which follows the main story in Ada&acute; s perspective. This gives you somewhere around 6-8 hours 
 more gameplay. You can now watch the game&acute; s cutscenes in the Movie Viewer, which is a nice 
 feature. There is also a cool laser weapon included, but in order to get it you need to beat the 
 main game twice: once on Easy or Normal and then on Professional.
  
  The question here is: should you buy this game? If you have never played RE4 before then this is 
 the best version to get and an obvious must-have. If you have already played the original GameCube 
 version and especially the PS2 version then I recommend you to consider one more time. There is 
 nothing new here for PS2 players except the new controls. GameCube players will on the other hand 
 get some new bonus extras, but they will need to play the game through one or even two more times 
 once again in order to get their hands on those extras.
  
  Resident Evil 4 Wii Edition is the best version of a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cfett199
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  To start out, its essentially the same RE4 as the Game Cube or the Play Station 2 version so i 
 am strictly going to stick to the new Wii features of this game.
  The one thing that pops out is that playing the game doesn't feel like playing a game, it feels 
 considerably more involved, such as actually slicing (well its more of a waggle) with the WiiMote 
 to use the knife and the nice sounding clicks and clacks heard from the WiiMote during reloading 
 really creates a more intuitive atmosphere. The laser is gone and replaced by a reticle which is 
 much better since you will always shoot where the reticle indicated where as the closer something 
 is to the gun, the farther don't and to the left does the laser shine go, making aiming in the 
 Wii feel much more percise and comfortable.
  As most reviews, and by just playing the game says, it has gotten easier. The earlier boss fights 
 are now, sadly, much more bearable and its just to easy, throwing spears at Del Lago is simple 
 without having to lightly tap an analogue stick to get a perfect bead on the little surface area 
 you see of him and it seems so unsatisfying when he goes down since one can get more hits in the 
 Wii version than in earlier ones, and the insane speed at which one can slice at the parasite of 
 El Gigante mean anyone can fell him in two attempts. Overall, the subtle shaking of Leon is gone, 
 making medium to long range shots easier to a degree, since now the player has to cope with their 
 natural shaking, rather than Leon's, so if you play, don't drink to much soda, in caffeine bring 
 the shakes faster than a crack fix.
  This game in a overall sense really hasn't gotten better, it fixed some things (laser) but broke 
 some others (difficulty) , maybe playing on the Wii motto, making games playable for everyone, and 
 it can be agreed, because the game is much more inviting, to run away from a boulder, doing a little 
 running jig (or again, just waggling the WiiMote) feels much more at home than uncomfortably hyper-tapping 
 that A button, and killing that controller 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnlivedPhalanx
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  In a season where Wii games are exceptionally rare, not to mention good games, people tend to notice 
 any sort of release. Instead of a new Resident Evil adventure, Capcom chose to (yet again) re-release 
 Resident Evil 4 following the adventure of former cop, now secret service agent Leon Kennedy and 
 his quest to save the President's Daughter. Now adapted for Nintendo's revolution, the Wii.
  
  For those not already familiar, this review will be a mere glance back at Resident Evil 4, 
 and take the most notice of the controls and bonus missions rather than go back over the game's 
 story yet again. Taking place in a foreign country Leon Kennedy is tracking the president's daughter 
 on a rescue mission. Apprehended by terrorists, Leon stumbles onto a conspiracy to revive the now 
 defunct Umbrella corporation with the help of a thought-to-be extinct species of parasite called 
 the Las Plagas. The mission remains the same, but the inclusion of Wii controls allows for a much 
 more controlled and precise aiming method not available on any other console. As with Metroid Prime 
 3, after playing Resident Evil 4 Wii Edition, it's extremely hard to jump to a normal control pad 
 controlled first-person shooter. Even though on any controller the initial impression of the control 
 scheme is clunky at best it takes only a short while to become accustomed to the Wii version 
 and only a bit longer to start appreciating how good the set-up really is.
  
  When moving using the control stick, to aim all the user has to do is press and hold B to enter 
 the aiming mode. The camera then zooms in to just barely over Leon's shoulder and the Wiimote then 
 serves as the aiming medium easily allowing the character to shoot arms, legs, or the head of an 
 enemy much faster and accurately than a standard joypad. The inclusion of the Wiimote for aiming 
 also allows Leon the ability to instantly react to a flying projectile, simply hold B and aim 
 for the axe flying at his head and fire  all can be done in a split second and virtually impossible 
 to execute in the same amount of time on a standard controller.
  
  Reloading is even easier and much more intuitive than before. While in aiming mode, simply wave 
 the Wiimote up and down rapidly once and Leon will reload his gun. This movement in a side-to-side 
 motion when walking or running will cause Leon to pull out his knife, which is excellent for twitch 
 reflexes when a zombie is right around a corner or there is a box to break and ammo (like all great 
 Resident Evil games) needs to be conserved as much as possible.
  
  Resident Evil 4 had this great game mechanic in which during a cinematic input was required by 
 the gamer in order to survive a situation and then leaked into the game as a scripted dodge maneuver 
 for boss fights in real-time! That great bit of gaming survives into the Wii version, and is arguably 
 the most fun since instead of tapping A to dodge, you'll actually be waving the Wiimote to jump 
 out of the way, shaking it back and forth to climb up from a ledge, or sweeping down to duck as 
 a sword comes at your head. The Wii version showcases as many great uses of the Wii remote without 
 over-doing it or feeling like the controls were tacked on.
  
  With the inclusion of Separate Ways the Ada side-missions to those Leon was on, Resident Evil 
 4 Wii Edition is the best 30 dollar at release title ever and certainly on the Wii. If you're looking 
 for something to do before the next big thing, grab Resident Evil 4 off the shelf and have another 
 go at those pesky zombies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dna_remix_guy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10
  
  +
  
  They really pulled it off with the controls, as they are a perfect compliment to the wii mote.
 
  
  It would usually be really hard to turn with a game like this, but it is easily fixed by the fact 
 that you can do a quick 180 degrees.
  
  The boss battles are really really good!
  
  -
  
  As a more run and gun guy, i wish there was more ammo!
  
  Organizing your attaches 
 case can get pretty annoying
  
  
  Graphics: 7
  Gamecube graphics
  
  Sound: 8
  Sound is enough to creep you out!
  
  Damn you chanting monks!
  
  Value: 10
  Absolutely 
 worth its price tag! Plus you get all the extras from the earlier versions of the game!
  
  Tilt: 5
  Its a port 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetroidFreak800
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  First off, I don't know why but I hated the gamecube one because the controls. I am happy my brother 
 picked the wii-version up (When he had the gamecube one) because the game sucks you in. I don't 
 know why but I love this game so much now. It also has a great cinematic kind of creepy feel to 
 it. It's a fun game and any shooter fan should pick it up. So if you hated the gamecube one like 
 me then at least give this one a try because it's better.
  
  You probably can replay this two more times after you beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeMoose
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Pros: The same amazing boss fights, And a captivating story line. Only costs $30, and its better 
 than most $60 games on the market. Oh, and its Resident Evil 4!
  
  Cons: Controls, although you do get used to them, can be a bit of a pain when you first start playing. 
 . Its the same game we've played on 2 other consoles and the PC, graphics really haven't changed 
 at all.
  
  Resident evil 4 for the Wii is the same game we've all played before. It is also the same climatic 
 and amazing adventure that we will never forget. 
  
  Resident Evil 4 is Reborn yet again! For the 3rd time and it still hasn't lost it's touch, Usually 
 people are sick of games after they get their first port, that is definitely not the case for Resident 
 evil 4: Wii Edition.
  
  Yeah, yeah. You know the story. You play as Leon Kennedy; The government agent from Resident Evil 
 2. You have been tasked to rescue the Presidents Daughter, who has been kidnapped by unknown villains. 
 You then find yourself in the back country of Spain, where the president's daughter is located. 
 Leon is led to a creepy Spanish village where he find villagers that don't seem to be quite human. 
 This story and game will keep you on the edge of your seat, wondering what's next. There is also 
 a side story mode called Separate ways , where you take the role of Ada Wong; This side story line 
 so to speak was also on The Play Station 2 version of Resident evil 4.
  
  There aren't really any new features that have been made specifically for the Nintendo Wii. Generally 
 this is the same game you've probably played for either the Gamecube, Playstation 2, or even the 
 PC, which means it has the same intense combat, great graphics (even for Wii standards) and gameplay 
 that will often keep you on the edge of your seat. Not to mention the same amazing Boss Fights 
 that Resident Evil 4 is known for.
  
  The combat is generally the same as the other 3 versions: You draw your weapon the camera will 
 zoom in and you are ready to fire. But aiming is definitely a lot harder on the Wii version than 
 it is for any other. You use the Wii remote to aim, which can get pretty frustrating at times, 
 but the controls aren't impossible to get used to. It should take you maybe a few hours of playing 
 until you are completely in tune with the controls. However the combat is definitely the strong 
 part of this game. There is really no better feeling than blowing a zombie's head off with a shotgun, 
 than turning around and slitting another zombies throat. Only in Resident evil 4, only in Resident 
 evil 4.
  
  Now on to the rest of the controls: Like I Mentioned earlier, you use the Wii Remote to aim; and 
 you use the joystick on the Nun-chuck to move and look around. The B trigger on the Wii Remote 
 will fire your weapon, and the Wii remote aims. Also holding down The C button on the Nun-chuck 
 will take your knife out and the A button on the Wii Remote will let you slice through zombies 
 by using the knife. You can also hold down D to activate the aiming mode, where you can wave around 
 your Wii Remote allowing you to slice through zombies manually.
  
  There is also a pretty big variety of weapons in Resident evil 4, and this is also one of the best 
 parts about the game. Through out the game you will find in crates scattered around, money know 
 as Pesetas that you can collect and will give you the money to purchase weapons and new upgrades 
 for your current weapons. The way you do this is in certain parts of the game you will run in to 
 a mysterious Spanish merchant, who will allow you to trade in goods that you find throughout the 
 game and buy weapons and weapon upgrades. Your weapons are very cool: You have the basic Pistol, 
 Rifle, Sub machine gun, Shotgun, and who could forget the Rocket Launcher? But you also have a 
 few other, more unique, weapons. Such as the Tommy Gun. Really in my opinion the whole weapons 
 system in this game is really one of the coolest parts of the entire game.
  
  Resident Evil 4 for the Wii also sounds as good as ever. The whole environment and the music and 
 everything alone will just creep you out, and it really leaves you with that feeling you get when 
 you know anything could happen right there, or that something is going to jump out at you right 
 there. The game also has amazing weapon effect, such as if you shoot a zombie in the leg with a 
 pistol you will just hear a simple pelt while if you shoot a zombie in the head with a shotgun, 
 you will hear an enormous splatter. Also the game has a very creepy soundtrack, which goes along 
 with the whole feel of the entire game.
  
  One of the very few flaws in Resident evil 4 for the Wii is that there is really no graphical changes. 
 Like the Playstation 2 version, it has widescreen and progressive scan. Fortunately for you, it 
 still looks very good on the Wii. The game, in my opinion, has amazing water effects, even for 
 a next generation (well now it's this generation) console with last generation graphics. Also the 
 character models were created very well, and still have the same great detail from previous versions. 
 Also, unlike other versions, the Wii version does not have Pre-rendered cutsceens.
  
  The Wii Version of Resident Evil 4 may not have the same impact it did two years ago when it was 
 released for the Gamecube, but that doesn't downgrade this version one bit. Even if you own this 
 game for any of the other three versions and own a Wii, this is still a must have. Nothing quite 
 matches the feel of slicing a zombies head off with the Wii Remote. Overall this is just a must 
 have game even if you have played and/or beat it on any of the previous other versions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sephm
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 2:12 am PT
Review:  i really liked resident evil 4 it was a fun game on the gamecube it was a new story, new gameplay, new 
 monsters it was different then the other resident evils but the game wasnt worth a remake on the 
 wii once i had heard that there would be a remake of re4 i knew all they were gonna change was 
 the controls and the gun aiming nothing else everything would be the same but its still a fun game 
 but not as fun as the gamecube version and resident evil 5 is gonna have the same gameplay as re4 
 so no more puzzles and hopefully the zombies will come back because the game is not much fun without 
 them 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r1crawford
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 12:48 am PT
Review:  RE4 continues when others RE title have taken the genre, and takes a few more steps into greatness.
 
  
  The previous titles were outstanding. They combined action, a great story line, and plenty of scares! 
 The one thing that let the series down was the awful camera (which did tend to heighten the tension) 
 and the slight load time between the different camera shots.
  
  Well, you can now forget about those slight problems. RE4 not only eliminates those them, but takes 
 Resident Evil to a whole new level!
  
  RE4 teams you with Leon Kennedy once again (from RE2 - possibly still my favourite title) , and 
 another familiar face or two. You are assigned to rescue the kidnapped daughter of the President 
 (one man, one mission??) . Along the way you meet plenty of more 'virus' effected people and animals, 
 similar to previous titles, but with a slight twist!!
  
  Unlike the previous titles, you will now view the World from over Leon's shoulder, like a 3rd person 
 view. This view will become similar a first person view when Leon's shooting. This change to RE 
 is a huge step forward in the serious. While there have been first person shooter versions in the 
 serious (on the PS1) , this new development marks a major change in how we imagine future RE games 
 will turn out.
  
  The game itself isn't as immersing as previous titles, as the game focuses more on the action that 
 on the story. Not that this is a bad thing as the action can come quick and fast, it's just not 
 as slow paced and involving as the previous titles where the story line was such a huge factor.
 
  
  The Wii is the perfect console for this game, despite not having outstanding graphics. The aiming 
 system works perfectly, and the nunchuck allows you to move easily. Every now and then you will 
 be required to shake the remote, or hit a button to perform an action (such as to sprint or duck 
 down) .
  
  The enemies can be very tough, especially on the hard level, and like previous games you will need 
 to conserve your ammo. A shot can stun an enemy which will give you the opportunity to move close 
 and perform a 'move' which to inflict addition damage. Some of the bosses are a real challenge 
 to defeat and it's just a case of avoid and shoot.
  
  There are plenty of levels, with enough action and puzzles to keep you entertained throughout. 
 A lot of the familiar weapons and antidotes (herbs) can be found, with weapon upgrades available 
 to be purchased.
  
  Many of the sequences are intriguing and continue to draw you into the world of RE, and set the 
 scene for future titles. While the series wasn't getting dull, this new style of RE games will 
 no doubt be continued in the next of the series.
  
  This is not just a great RE game, this is truly one of the all time great games, a must for all 
 gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 61SCYALP
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  The first time i played this, i only played it until i reached the first save point because it 
 was hard and i'd never really encountered a hard game before, so i guess i was scared. Half a year 
 later i picked it up and literally played until my wii mote had run out of batteries. I've ignored 
 cod4, tf2 and crysis to play this game because its just so dam good. 
  
  Ofcourse some people led me to believe that this game was impossibly hard due to lack of ammo but 
 there is plenty of ammo in this game to keep you going as long as you think tacticaly. At first 
 i shot enemies in the face because from previous shooter experience. Head = Quicker kill, while 
 that is true i found shooting an enemy in the foot made things easier because even if it didn't 
 kill them they would be out of action for a precious while so you could focus attention on other 
 enemies to blast to oblivion.
  
  The games atmosphere is amazing and the graphics are really good which helps immersion into the 
 game, while the scare factor of vsome of the enemies wheres off after a while there are still enemies 
 that you just put a huge amount of effort into flooring as quickly as possible from fear which 
 gets your heart racing like nothing else.
  
  The weapon variety is good without there being too many weapons or too little. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batmanboy11
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2009 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Yes Resident Evil has been on the game cube, play station 2 and PC but Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition 
 is the Ultimate edition of one of the best games of all time. I am disappointed about no graphic 
 upgrades but it looks like an amazing Wii title. And even better feature is the aiming cross hair 
 that replaces the laser sight from the other versions. I give it a great 9.5 out of ten. Resident 
 Evil 4: Wii Edition is a Must own game. If you have a Wii buy it. RESIDENT EVIL 4! 9.5 9.5 9.5 
 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.59.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.59.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 
 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5
  9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.59.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5
  9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.59.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.59.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 
 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5
  9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.59.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.5
  Out of 10 Out of 10 Out of 10 
 Out of 10 Out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kernon
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  Sure, I had played Resident Evil 4 on the Gamecube but not to completion. I never had a particularly 
 good reason for not finishing it, I simply never got around to it. When the Wii edition came to 
 light, I heard people raving particularly about the control scheme and decided that I needed to 
 pick it up and give it a try. The promise ofwide-screen support and 480p was a welcome addition 
 and helped push the purchasing decision past the point of no return.
  
  Visually RE4 is on par with its Gamecube roots. That being said, everything looks better in widescreen 
 and I'm a big fan of progressive displays so I suppose technically speaking it's above and beyond 
 its Gamecube roots. Sure the game is a little pixellated and the colours a little washed out, but 
 when you consider this is a Gamecube game on the Wii we're talking about here and not some fancy 
 shooter on a graphics powerhouse console, it's more than adequate. In fact, it looks good enough 
 that during a few of the gorier moments, I could be overheard muttering something about having 
 nightmares for the next month.
  
  The sound in this game is quite good. The voice acting is well done the whole way through.
  Once 
 nice touch here is how music queues are used to identify whether there are still hostiles around 
 that you should be worried. This easily (if not subtly) lets you know when you're able to take 
 your time exploring an area instead of rounding every corner expecting to be eaten by something.
 
  
  The control scheme is obviously the major difference between this version of RE4 and the Gamecube 
 and PS2 versions. If you haven't played the game on the Wii, the controls may sound a little awkward. 
 Basically you run around with the analog stick on the Nunchuk. This then switches to let you look 
 up, down left and right while in targeting mode. In targeting mode you then use the Wiimote to 
 move the targeting cursor around the screen and fire with the A button.
  I'm hoping that sounds confusing because when you first start playing, it is. But once you get 
 used to the idea that you can't run and gun (the walking functionality of the analog stick changes 
 to a look mode while targeting) it's quite natural. I'm not sure this is the ideal setup for a 
 shooter on theWii but it works pretty well in this particular case.
  
  RE4's core gameplay elements consist of some basic exploration, simple puzzle solving and a whole 
 lot of shooting. As is typical in Resident Evil games, ammo is in scarce supply which can be problematic 
 at points, sometimes forcing you to replay a section a couple of times to complete it while leaving 
 yourself enough equipment to move on with! That being said, death doesn't set you back particularly 
 far, often you will begin from the last door you passed through.
  There are also some roleplaying elements in the form of a merchant that lets you purchase equipment, 
 guns and upgrades. Inventory space is limited so you can't keep everything. Choose your weapons 
 carefully as each class of weapon requires its own specific kind of ammunition. Some types of ammo 
 are much easier to come by than others.
  
  Overall I really enjoyed this game. At about 15 hours of gameplay for the main campaign, it's a 
 little longer than I would have liked and I definitely felt like it was dragging on closer to the 
 end. However, that could have more to do with the fact that I hadBioShock waiting in the wing and 
 had to literally force myself to finish RE4 before allowing myself to play BioShock!
  On my super scientific game-o-meter, I give this game a solid 3 out of 3. You should play this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: babenjorge
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2007 11:25 pm PT
Review:  I like the game-play but it was missing what the other RE games had, horror. It was cool playing 
 as Leon Kennedy. The story was moving further and further away from the original. This version 
 for the Wii was really fun to play. The new Wii remote was used throughout the game. Some thing 
 that i did not like was the where it took place, its like they did not want to be predictable with 
 a scary house or suburban town, but they tried too hard to change it. I suppose they did that to 
 show the infection was everywhere. The zombies did not look scary they were just towns people. I 
 gave the game a 8.0 because its a RE game and it had the usual in it. It could have been better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_WingsT_T
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  RE4 is a thrilling game that is, trust me, worth your time! I never played it on the gamecube or 
 the PS2 but I played the wii version and it has great controls where you can feel how intense this 
 game can be. Its graphics aren't superb for the wii but it doesn't really matter because the gameplay 
 is awesome and the voice acting is very realistic. Plus the characters and the monsters are very 
 well designed. Of course, this game was made to be creepy and thrilling and they succeeded on making 
 it this way but it can be funny or dramatic from times to times. The story is also great! I definitely 
 recommend it for all those who want a challenging game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WinWalter
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  If you've been around the gaming scene in the last decade, you've probably heard of one, or more, 
 of the Resident Evil games. With all the movies and now with Resident Evil 5 coming out in the 
 future, it's not hard to see that many people find the franchise completely amusing.
  
  Resident Evil 4 is sort of like that. If you have not played any version of this game, I entirely 
 welcome you to play this version because this is the best version out of all the ports by far.
 
  
  Coming out first on the Gamecube, Resident Evil 4 was considered revolutionary by many because 
 of it's unique controls and it's unbelievably crisp graphics and immersive story. After coming 
 out to the PC and the Playstation 2, the Wii version brings new controls with the remote and nunchuk 
 and once you've played it, you'll never go back. Unfortunately, the game hasn't improved much on 
 the graphic side of things and it does show. If you're expecting some sweet, startling graphics 
 like on the Playstation 3, you'll be sorely disappointed. For me, the game still holds up and it 
 wasn't the graphics that will keep you coming back. This version doesn't have anything new but 
 it does have all the updated extras like Assignment Ada from the Playstation 2 version.
  
  But, the number one thing about what makes this game so great, is the controls. The new controls 
 are so intuitive, it feels as though the game was waiting for this. Though you can plug in a classic 
 controller and play it like a Gamecube, there's absolutely no reason to. The new controls allow 
 you to aim anywhere on the screen so quickly, it's hard to fathom how I played it before when it 
 came out on the Gamcube. The game is a reused port and this is just another iteration, and at forty 
 Canadian dollars, it is kind of steep if you already have previous versions. Luckily, or unluckily, 
 I don't have any of the older versions so picking up this game didn't take much of a thought process. 
 I definitely recommend this game to anyone who has a Wii and does not own any of the previous versions. 
 If you do, it still might be worth a pick up but remember, it's the same game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aroman010
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil is one of the longest going Video Game Series out there today. (Including code veronica 
 and the gun survivor series.) It puts you against Legions of the Undead, Genetic Mutants, and evil 
 corporation. The games ongoing story alone deserves a round of applause. Now that we have come 
 to the 4th Iteration of the main stream story its easy to say Capcom has continued to impress.
 
  You reprise the role of Leon S. Kennedy (from RE2) . Leon has now acquired a job with the secret 
 service and has been left with the mission to rescue th presidents daughter. Little does he know, 
 there is a terrorist plot to implant a body snatcher like creature inside her to over through the 
 government and eventually the world. I will say no more to save you from my ability to ruin movies. 
 The game is good and worth your attention.
  Now the game first came out for Gamecube as an exclusive. This made Sony a little angry so after 
 some legalities, Capcom released a special edition RE4 with extra content. Both versions of the 
 game were beautifully put together and RE4 was a major success.
  So a year and a half later, The next gen systems start to hit the shelves. RE5 is heavily in the 
 works and there are major shortages in good valued games on the next-gen systems. What better way 
 to assure a quality game then put out an instant classic, specially designed for a virtual experience.
 
  RE4 for Wii is exactly that. Using the Wii stick, you wil get to aim directly at your assailants. 
 Shoot them in the knee to make them drop to there knee. Then aim at their head to drop them hard. 
 Too close? Swing the stick, and the Leon will swing his knife in an instant. The controls are well 
 put together and very precise making you wonder is there anyway to re-do the whole series this 
 way?
  My only argument is why couldn't it be in HD. Sorry Nintendo, but as innovative as you guys can 
 be, your always missing something. Other then that, buying a Wii for RE4 is completely justifiable 
 since it is a truly amazing experience. I highly recommend this game to ANY who enjoy survival 
 horror games, since it literally puts you in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nears_puzzle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game two months after release and am very pleased with it. I hadn't palyed my Wii 
 for so ong, and I expected this to bring back into it. This game is very fun, variated, and has 
 a great story. The game should be in all Wii-owners collection as the best one, but it isn't good 
 enough for people like me. I hope people enjoyed the game as much as I did, and hopefully you still 
 enjoy your Wii, but I'm pretty much done with it. Definitely a must buy for everyone and hopefully 
 Umbreall Chronicles can live up to it. I pray that Nntendo stops with the less intuiative games, 
 and I have been by them for my entire life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spymaster2301
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2007 1:48 am PT
Review:  The second wii game that I got for my wii was RE4 remade for wii. I have the gamecube version but 
 the game but I was bored so I go it. Let me say this the shooting with the Wii is much more better 
 then using a controller. The controls worked perfectly, the way it should be. The game (in my tv) 
 was in letterbox format. However I liked it cause for 2 reasons. 1 is cause it have a wide-screen 
 view of the game which give me a advantage. Number 2 is cause it gave the game a more movie like 
 look. Now to graphics. I know the Wii is not a powerhouse compared to ps3 or 360. So the game just 
 as good as it came out in 2005, so the game as age a few years. But they look better then Zelda's 
 graphics. However, when if you choose to use a mafia type dress you will come up with a pre-rendered 
 scenes with Leon in his police uniform. I don't know if this is a mistake or a glitch. But the 
 extras are very cool. All the extras in the PS2 version and the best of the Gamecube versions come 
 together. This is a good port, but really did we need it. After is a game almost like 2+ years 
 old. Nintendo can not keep on making ports of its greatest games of the past. But no matter what 
 liked it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzz06
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Resident Evil I have played and I gotta say I enjoyed it. The controls were easy 
 to grasp and made for entertaining gameplay. I like the fact you have to swing the remote to reload 
 and swing knife. Enemies go down fairly easy, but there are tons of them everywhere and bosses 
 are huge. The bonus material acts as an additional chapter in the game, and its cool to see the 
 story from another point of view through Ada. For $30 bucks this is a steal, I recommend anyone 
 with a wii at least try this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playersonly656
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Playing and beating Resident Evil 4 was really an accomplishment for me. This really is the best 
 version. The controls are just perfect with some getting used to. It's just as atmospheric as it 
 has been for the past 3 years. Problem is, if you played anything like Gears of War, the graphics 
 will really feel dated. There are bad textures if you look at it really close. Like I said, the game 
 is very atmospheric. From the scariness of being alone walking in the rain to an almost endless 
 wave of Ganados coming right at you with your bullets draining fast, its just that scary. I know 
 this game isn't on your most anticipated list (it came out 3 times in the past 3 years) , but give 
 it a try. The wii controls really work and its a really great thrill ride. Trust me, it's well worth 
 the $30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonobubbles
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 1:08 am PT
Review:  I have played all of the Resident Evils and this was by far the best. This game is terrific i found 
 myself playing it for around 20hrs its had great voice acting, good visuals and great gameplay. 
 I enjoyed seeing all the characters of the game and the returns of old friends. I liked this game 
 even more because Leon has always been my favourite Resident Evil character.
  I found myself siting on the edge of my seat waitting to see what would happen next and sometimes 
 i was even scared to be killed by the chainsaw guys.
  This game features great replayability with assignment Ada and the Mercinaries.
  Please buy this 
 game you wil not regreat it and it has a cheap price what more could you want.
  I highly give this game a 9.5 out of 10 it will be one of the best games you have played in a long 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_hero_riku
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  RE4 is the fourth RE game in the seris, and not only one of the best RE games, but maybe one of 
 the best games of all time! RE4 is like no other RE game, no longer do you walk like a tank (sometimes 
 you can fell a little werid walking) the aiming is no longer auto, and the ai is very smart. The 
 game starts you as Leon. S. Kenndey and you must resuce the president's daughter. The game action 
 takes place over Leon's shoulder and you aim your gun by holding the B button, pointing your wiimote 
 at the screen to where you want to shot and and press the A button to fire. The aiming for this 
 game is some of the best I've seen, and the Wii version is the best of the sytems version, it does 
 have a few problems. In the other versions of this game for the PS2, and GC, when you aim a thin 
 laser comes from your gun and you aim like that. While the Wii versions keeps a cricle on the screen, 
 you move the cricle by moving the Wiimote. Now the problem the Wii version has that the other version 
 dosen't have is that when you aim the camera does not move, at all. Insted you have to move the 
 camera with the analog on the nuncuk. This can be a bit never racking when you are fighting alot 
 of garnados and one of them goes of screen and you have to use the nuncuk to move the camera. Now 
 this may seem easy but that is not the turth. It is also even more annoying for people who played 
 the other versions. Still even with this problem it's not that hindering to the game play. New 
 also is before using your knife you had to hold down a button to bring out the knife and then hit 
 the action button to swing. You can still use the kinfe the same way but now you cas simply swing 
 the Wiimote to swing your knife, it is more handy then the other method. The music is really creepy, 
 and fits in with the game just right. The backgrounds are a bit gray and sometimes look a like, 
 but that's only in a few places. The game is just fun, and is just a little above the to short 
 line, but you have three new modes to play after you beat the game. Over all RE4 was, and is a 
 fun game. It is a game from '04, but the 30$ they charge is a decent price (still I fell it could 
 be a 10$ cheaper) It is a great game that any action game fan should get! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dnshy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 1:46 am PT
Review:  this game sets such a great atmosphere. I can't get over how fun the shooting scenes are because 
 of the great system the wii uses with the nunchuck and controller. the voice acting during the 
 cut scenes is a little corny, but the action in this game is great, I recommend it to anyone who 
 has a wii or who hasn't played this game for any system. just try to check the room and make sure 
 you don't have any young kids watching behind you mouth agape! poor little guy will be sleeping 
 in my room til school starts. this one hundred word minimum is pretty annoying when I am sure everyone 
 and their brother has reviewed this game and we all know everyone loves it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FreeBallz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 1:32 am PT
Review:  I first bought this game two years ago on the gamecube with some stolen money i found on the ground 
 at school, i was twelve. I don't regret a thing. I was the best video game i had ever played. I 
 went through that game countless times and never got bored. But one day karma bit me and i lost 
 that game forever. When i heard that the game was coming to the Wii, i was excited. My friends 
 wondered why after a game that i had played so much, but i had never played the ps2 version very 
 long. The graphics weren't as nice, and the controls were off, but i never played the extra material 
 in that version, and i knew it would be on the wii version. i picked up the game ASAP and began 
 playing. The controls were a dream come true. When i heard how the analog stick and the wii pointer 
 were separated in aiming, i was a bit worried, but in no time i was with the drastically improved 
 control scheme. the new controls give off a bit of a light gun feel, which is so awesome. One problem 
 i had with the orginal game was the shooting challenge area. It was hard to move the analog stick 
 so quick on the gamecube, but on the wii, it was as easy as cake, (but not too easy) . Anyone who 
 had control problems with the earlier versions, this is the answer. the game took me about 22 hours 
 to beat it the first time, so it isnt too short either. plus there are tons of unlockables are 
 finishing the game. the alternate costume from the ps2 version bugged me because when you use that 
 outfit, the cut scene are pre rendered, so he is wearing his orginal clothes, while the orginal 
 alternate costume from GC version isnt, i was hoping that they would fix that. Also this version 
 hasnt any new features except for the phenomenal wii controls, which are good enough to be a feature 
 of their own. I can't give this game a ten because it doesn't have any multiplayer, but mercenaries 
 mode can be fun with a few friends. Don't rent, buy, plus its only 30 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stilesman
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Resident evil 4 for the wii is a superb game. I have never played a resident evil game before and 
 this was my first one. Once I got ot the village and got my head tooken off for the first time, 
 I knew this was going to be an awesome game. The graphics in this game are excellent and show great 
 detail. The sound drags you into the game with all of it's creepy effects and monster noises. The 
 gameplay is as good as it gets with the wii controls and awesome enemies (I loved the regenerators) . This 
 game even has replay value with 3 other modes to go along with single player mode. The only bad 
 thing about this game is after your first playthrough the game isn't quite as good as your first. 
 Overall this is the best wii game out right now and one of the best of all time!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SfGiants11
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  I should start by getting this out of the way: this game is eerie. I actually find it difficult 
 to play for really long periods of time because it takes a lot out of you. The game constantly 
 instills a feeling of uneasiness in the player, and you'll always be asking yourself: what is around 
 the corner? Why is the music suddenly escalating? Which direction is that shouting voice coming 
 from? Truly, this game is incredibly atmospheric, moreso even then Metroid Prime, which is well 
 known for excelling in that area. The game plays incredibly well. This is the first Resident Evil 
 game that I have ever played so I can't really compare the camera angle to past games, but it is 
 hard to imagine playing this type of game any differently. The Wii remote allows for pinpoint aiming 
 and this is truly encouraging when it comes to the future shooters on the Wii. Those of you who 
 suffered through Red Steel will surely be relieved by the tight level of control in this game. 
 It feels excellent, and there is a definite sense of realism when your firing shotgun blasts into 
 a horde of incoming hostiles. One of the reasons why this game is so difficult for me is the scarcity 
 of ammo. You will often find yourself looking for alternate ways of escaping enemies, or ways to 
 kill multiple enemies at once (usually with a grenade) , and this is certainly one of the great 
 challenges of the game. There is also a nice plethora of different guns and weapon upgrades that 
 you can purchase throughout the game, so it keeps things changed up a bit.
  
  The graphics were absolutely stunning when this game was released for the gamecube, and they remain 
 so today (which tells you that the Wii can handle much more graphically than what developers have 
 given it so far) . Textures are believable, and the artistic design of the game is such that you 
 will feel entirely immersed in the realistic European locale and haunted by the state that it is 
 in. The music, while often subtle, is shockingly effective at adding to the creepy atmosphere. 
 The way the sound suddenly shifts to a pulsating beat when hostiles approach (often you can't initially 
 tell where they are approaching from) is particularly disturbing and well done. On a final note, 
 there is also a satisfying story here to pull you along. It may begin as a fairly cliched rescue 
 mission for the president's daughter, but a surprisingly deep story gradually emerges and includes 
 a few exciting twists and memorable gameplay experiences. There is one scene about a third of the 
 way through the game in which you and a comrade must defend yourself from inside an old house as 
 countless villagers attempt to barge their way in. It's straight out of an action movie and it 
 is absolutely hectic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiiMo
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 is back, for its 2nd remake in Res 4: Wii Edition. Although it is an exact port 
 of the Gamecube version, and also receiving the extra content that Playstation 2 owners were given, 
 it is just as perfect, maybe even better than its predecessors. I say better because unlike the 
 sleek laser sight used in the Gamcube and PS2 version, a white cross-hair is used instead, which 
 is a whole lot easier to move around the screen on the fly rather than the laser sight. Although 
 it has all the positives of the Gamecube version, it does have its negatives. The biggest and most 
 noticeable problem for me was the very annoying scope for certain weapons. Instead of using the 
 Wii Mote, you would have to use your analog stick, which was too sensitive and very difficult to 
 maneuver. Other than my small complaints, Resident Evil 4 will have you afraid on the edge of your 
 seat, always with a happy trigger finger! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil-Z
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  First of all I have to say that i was surprised at how much better it seemed with the wii controllers. 
 I completed the GC one 8 times and knew everything and got so bored of it, but the Wii version 
 made me want to play it again.
  
  Good: New controls take a minute to get used to, but theyre class Gameplay is still amazin, its 
 definitely one of the best action games Content from PS2 version for anyone whos only played the 
 GC one The music on the farm area before the first boulder is the best - so creepy Bosses The Bloody 
 Sack - scared the bejeezus out of me
  
  Bad: for me the village was the best area - it was the only place that held any creepiness - except 
 for the Regenerators - after that it was just samey After the village the amount of enemies just 
 got annoying, its an easy game imo and fighting 30 people only to be brought to another 30 in the 
 next room, particularly at the beginning of the island and some parts of the castle, gets annoying, 
 the adrenalin of the battles goes down after you realise you can easily just blow them all away 
 with the shotgun No new content (other than previously used PS2 content) - No online - they shouldve 
 at least done leaderboards for mercs. Even better Co-op mercs thatd be class, or Mercs when youre 
 against each other, even better, or anything online : ( Graphics haven't changed - Capcom just want 
 the money, they've basically done nothing to change it It just aint Resi
  
  It kind of annoys me when people say this is the best resi - it has a really poor story, although 
 the credits where it shows you the people transforming is one of the creepiest things ever. The 
 only things that are similar are three characters and the name really.
  
  Capcom couldve made this with a different name, its like resident evil the name was used to grab 
 attention for it. I can see why people think its dated but i guess i must be a bit of a fanboy 
 cause i love all of the old resident evils. I think that Resi 2 was the best in the series - its 
 still creepy even though the graphics are so dated.
  
  Bring back the T-Virus! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musicalbuffymar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 is rather well known as one of the best games of all time, especially in the past 
 few years. Most of you reading this will already know that this game is a radical step in a new 
 direction for the Resident Evil series.
  
  In this not-zombie slaying game, you take control of Leon S. Kennedy, a former police officer turned 
 government agent, and survivor of Resident Evil 2. This game takes place 6 years after the events 
 of Resi 2,3 and the Outbreaks, and has Leon being assigned to some unspecified eastern european 
 country to track down the president's missing daughter, Ashley Graham. After arriving, Leon soon 
 realises that the local villagers are not all they seem, and becomes entangled in another, albeit 
 odd, plot for world dominiation and chaos. However, and I can't stress this enough, THESE ARE NOT 
 ZOMBIES. These new enemies, known as Los Ganados, can think and formulate plans, although they 
 won't be incredibly clever, they will set bear traps and knock huge boulders your way to try and 
 dispose of you .
  
  As this is the Wii version, it contains Wii-specific controls, which work surprisingly well. You 
 use the analog stick to move (duh) , Z to run and C to look. You aim your firing reticule with the 
 Wii-mote, hold B to take your weapon out, and press A to shoot, throw, slash, etc. There are a 
 variety of weapons and all of these items must be arranged in your attache case. A lot of people 
 complained about the fact that in previous Resi games, a rocket launcher took up the same amount 
 of room as a house key. In Resi 4, each individual item takes up a certain amount of blocks in 
 your attache case, so having five different weapons won't leave enough room for ammo and herbs. 
 As ammo cannot be bought, you must conserve your shots by either, running past enemies, or killing 
 them in the most ammo efficient ways possible, such as a shot in the knee, followed by a kick to 
 the head. The interactive cutscenes are back, with many button mashers replaced with remote shakers. 
 However, the easier aiming controls can and do make the game much easier, and therefore, the game 
 is not as scary as before, but this doesn't make it any less fun.
  
  Even though the graphics are barely a step up from the GameCube, they are still among the Wii's 
 best, textures and lighting look wonderful, and the game finally supports true 16:9 widescreen. 
 The sound is great too, making this trip into Europe really atmospheric, with enemies drawn towards 
 sounds and enemies calls telling you where they are.
  
  Once you rescue Ashley from her cell, you must protect her from the not-zombies, which can become 
 difficult, since one shot with anything seems to kill her. This doesn't ruin the game, but does 
 make some segments considerably harder.
  
  On top of the GameCube's visuals, the game also retains the PS2 exclusive extra Separate Ways , 
 so you really are getting the ultimate version here.
  
  If you haven't played it, get this one, and if you have, you may still want to also get this version, 
 as the revamped controls almost slip it into a different genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnybunny35
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  I own RE4 for the Gamecube, and I love that game. I wasn't going to get it for the Wii, but now 
 that I have played it I think that I will. The controls are much better in this game than they 
 are in the Gamecube and PS2 versions, namely how you aim. It is a lot easier now with the crosshair 
 instead of the laser sight (though if you want you can get the laser sight on) and the gun not moving 
 around when you are trying to shoot someone (unless you move it.) . The graphics aren't as good this 
 time around, but all ported games suffer graphical quality losses, no matter what the system. But 
 it is not very noticeable, and doesn't matter because this game is still very good. The best part 
 about this game is that you have all of the unlockable content from the PS2 and Gamecube versions, 
 so you don't have to buy a PS2 if you want to do all of it.
  
  This is currently the best game for the Wii, so I would reccomend buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 815mdavis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Were back and were shootin zombies with the help of motion. This is the high point of the game 
 because it really is just a port, even so it manages to hold its own since it was an instant classic 
 on the GC and PS2. Once again Your Leon trying to save the president's lovely daughter, With the 
 help Motion control it can make things a little easier because of the targeting reticle on screen. Even 
 if you played this on one of the previous counsels recently you will still want to get this game 
 as it only retails for 30 smacker which makes this game so much more worth picking up. There really 
 wasn't much improvement for this game a couple years ago and their really still isn't this year. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rolandx
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Now that I got through the game (I actually did that a while ago) , and spent numerous hours doing 
 it, I can safely (As much safe as I am after playing this...) say that this is one of the best 
 games I've played in years. Starting off with the graphics, I can say that this game doesn't dissapoint. 
 The character models look great, and you won't complain about the zombies, the characters (and 
 zombies) move very realistically and the impact you can make on zombies is great (I mean the blood 
 spilling and all...) . The gameplay is really deep and the Wii controlls really make things easier 
 and more realistic. The storyline is really well done, but like after all good games it makes you 
 want more. If you don't have good relationships with gamepads it might be tough at the start controling 
 the sniper, because it's controlled with the Wii nunchuck. One thing I was really happy about was 
 the sound, the music is great, it's really intense and makes the whole tone of the games. The other 
 thing is the great voice acting. The guy or girl **** happens, you know...) that does the main 
 character Leon S. Kennedy is really good. And the other people that do Ada, Saddler and all the 
 other folks really do their job with all they got for the (I bet crappy) money they get. I really 
 can't be objective on the price (If I haven's misunderstood GameSpots meaning for the word ''Value'') , 
 because here in Latvia it was 39.99Ls which is about 80 dollars. This is a thing that I hate which 
 happens in Europe, at least in little countries. Since I bought it maybe a month ago the price 
 29.99$ is really a steal (In lats it would be about 15Ls) . With all that said I think that this 
 is a game you really won't regret playing, and hey once you pick it up, it's hard to put down, 
 considering that once you beat the game there are a few extras, and there is an extra game where 
 you can go on killing the living hell out of zombies, and keep on beating your high score with 
 different characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devil_Vergil
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  This game was a sweet adition to my wii I was happy since the first second of playing it I just 
 loved it and I knew that I would enjoy it from the los illuminados to the regenerators I had stuns 
 and funs. The only quam I have with the game is the length it took me like 15 hours to beat but 
 the time is made up in Eda's story The Magnum is my fav. weapon of all time take all them out in 
 one shot! This game has stunning visuals and good voice overs Its very addicting and a joy to play 
 all together I'd give it my freak the devil out badge a rare treat indeed. . . . . .Where's Yamato 
 when you need it.
  
  Yours truley
  Devil Vergil 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trogdor2355
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  ok this great game came out a while ago and honestly i never got the game because i never thought 
 the series was that good. but now honestly now i'm considering to get some of the other games. 
 and i'm sure it raised the hype for resident evil 5. i heard that the wii-mote make the games a 
 little easier. but i don't think that matters because you can play the game on harder difficulties. 
 the bosses are simply terrrific. and the extra content really gives the game a few extra hours. 
 in the wii-edition the graphics are good and the sound is phenomenal it's cool when the wiimote 
 makes sounds. so i think the game is the best in the series and on the wii... for now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truegamer1988
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  residnet evil 4 was the best game in both graphics and game play, being so perfect that giving 
 it a under AAA rating is a crime.
  
  The game takes place in europe maybee spain as the game leads to. leon kennedy a ex member of raccon 
 city police department was sent to investigate on the kidnapping of the USA's president daugther 
 ashley.
  
  gameplay- 2.5/2.5 simply keeps all of the value from the game cube version.
  
  graphics- 2/2.5 The graphics beeing revolutionary when the game initialy lunched, they start 
 to show the age of the game.
  
  story- 2.5/2.5 As i had never gone through the entier game i was pleased with the end of the story 
 and the extras taken from the ps2 version only adds to the package.
  
  Fun Factor 2.5/2.5 While useing the knife was quite a nusence i think that the game was quite intertaining 
 and i strongly recomend this already classic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaos_complete
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 12, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  I borrowed my friend's wii for awhile, and have been playing this game nonstop since. It is indeed 
 a good game, but it also does have a few shortcomings which if filled would make it much better. 
 I'm not quite finished but I'm close.
  
  The good:
  
  Decent graphics.
  Enemies are varied throughout and the firefights can get pretty intense
  Most of the plot line 
 is pretty interesting
  Guns are fun and pretty realistic in how they handle
  Fun dodging sequences
  At times, enemies can be very challenging
  Lots of side quests and items
 
  Wii interface is really fun
  Not too short
  
  Some drawbacks:
  
  No option (I know that this is probably something in the series, but I'd really like it)
  merchants 
 are silly No way to shoot while moving
  
  Enemies are RIDICULOUSLY overpowered, and often very predictable. The physics of 'getting shot' 
 needs some work. Enemies which are shot should have parts of their body come off, which may render 
 them incapable of really attacking if you hit the right points. This would lend more strategy to 
 the game rather than just pumping everyone full of lead. Maybe it's just something from the horror 
 genre, but I'd like the chainsaw guy to slow down a lot after he's shot in the head at point blank 
 range with a shotgun, maybe have his head come off. Same applies to enemies that are 'blind', they 
 are somehow able to hit you accurately instead of just swinging blindly and completely unpredictably. 
 less hits needed, but more skill and less predictability would be nice.
  
  Weapons are underpowered. Though they handle realistically, they do very little damage. Having 
 much better effects upon impact would make the game much more interesting.
  
  Leon's acrobatics need work. Well, more importantly, I'd like to see them as controllable options 
 throughout the game. It isn't consistent; he can dodge lasers but not some blind, badly injured 
 maniac wielding a chainsaw or some half dead villager?
  
  I'd like to see the enemies less powered and somewhat realistically armored, but with less predictability 
 and more strategy (and of course, detachment) in shooting rather than just blasting (though the 
 hitting the legs element is a good start) .
  
  president's daughter rescue is a bit corny
  
  As I said before, I'm new to the horror genre, so maybe this is just something that horror 
 fans like in their horror games. I just feel that this game could have been made much better if 
 it were a bit less predictable and your shooting actually had more of an effect. I don't mean to 
 wash this out with negatives, I just felt that my positives were more or less self-explanatory 
 so I elaborated more with the negatives. I am not comparing this to the others in the RE series, 
 just for the note. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yourbeliefs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  I was skeptical about this game when I heard about it. Having already played and loved the Gamecube 
 edition, I didn't think it would be worth playing what was essentially the PS2 version with a remote. 
 One day I rented this and Madden 08 for 360. I played the Madden for maybe 15 minutes, and I'm 
 back deep into Chapter 2 of RE4. For anyone who owned and loved the GC version of this, I'm here 
 to say that YES, it IS worth buying this game, and you can probably get it used for at most $25 
 (not to mention the trade in for your GC version.) If you played the PS2 version, I can't really 
 attest to how much better this one is, since this is basically that version with better graphics 
 and Wii functionality from what I understand. Resident Evil 4 proves its greatness by standing 
 the test of time. Yes I know it hasn't been THAT long since it came out for the GC, but Capcom 
 did well by taking a modern classic and just tweaking it and making it better. If you loved RE4 
 on the GC, you'll fall head over heels for the Wii edition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paperlugi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 11:49 pm PT
Review:  I myself have played resident evil 0-4 and the only one i have beaten is 4 so this is one that 
 i feel i actually know. The controls are much more fun and get you further into the game than you 
 have ever been. With outstanding level and character design this game show pure greatness. The 
 story is fun and suspenseful. Plus when you beat the game the game grows. You do not only play 
 Leon's main game but also Separate Ways, Operation Ada, and The Mercenaries.
  
  Each game in Resident Evil 4 Wii Edition is different but each of them are exciting to play and 
 can be played over and over and over... and over. I can't say that it is the greatest of the series 
 because I have not beaten them all, but i can say it is fun and different and worth the cheap $30 
 new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tick660
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 was an excellent game in 2005 when it was released, and it still retains it's fun 
 and re-playability after over 2 years. The Wii Remote allows the player to aim much much faster, 
 with extremely upgraded precision, making the game much easier than its Gamecube or Playstation 
 2 predecessor. Even while you are aiming at the screen with the Wii Remote there is gray cross 
 hairs showing where the next shot will land even before the B button is pressed, putting Leon into 
 aiming mode. RE4 also marks the evolution of the Resident Evil series, and sets the bar for all 
 survival horror games to come. With a 29.99 price tag, RE4: Wii Edition is a must have for any 
 newcomer or veteran to the Resident Evil series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlyinM_X
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 15, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  The fourth edition of Resident Evil 4 (wow, that many already!?) is out on the Wii, and is hands-down 
 the best of all versions of RE4 in every category, and one of the best games ever in general.
 
  
  You should know this by now, but if you don't, the story follows Leon S. Kennedy, a survivor of 
 the Raccoon City incident in RE2, who is now a U. S. secret service agent whose job it is to protect 
 the president and his family.
  He is forced to travel to Europe in search of the president's daughter after she was abducted by 
 an unknown group of people. And as soon as he meets the first villager, he realises something's 
 not right. The story is full of twists and turns, familiar faces, and hundreds of mindless people 
 who simply want you dead at all costs.
  
  First off, this game looks absolutely amazing, and is likely the best looking Wii game so far. 
 There is a lot more detail, especially on Leon, that I noticed the very first time I turned on 
 the game. It is not a massive leap graphic-wise compared to the GC version, but it is still a breathtakingly 
 good looking game.
  
  The game does wonders using the Wii remote speakers when it comes to sound. The Wii remote essentialy 
 sounds like your gun. When you fire your weapon or swing your knife, the noise comes straight from 
 your Wii remote. And there is also something oddly satisfying about the click-clack noises the 
 Wii remote makes when you reload your weapon. The well-timed musical scores and the eerie groans, 
 shrieks, and roars of the enemies really gives you the sense of urgency that is needed in the horror 
 genre.
  The voice acting is good, although the scripting itself is kinda off.
  
  The gameplay is where it's at though. You use the Wii remote to aim, and a easy to follow targeting 
 reticule make sure that firing your remote is a piece of cake... oops, I mean gun. By holding B, 
 you ready your weapon. Once you set your aim, press A to fill your enemies with hot lead. Holding 
 C draws your combat knife, which is good for opening crates and conserving ammo. And Z allows you 
 to run and do a quick 180 by holding down on the control stick. You can also use the control stick 
 to adjust the aim of your knife and the angle at which you toss grenades. It sounds complex, but 
 it really isn't once you try it for yourself. By swinging the Wii remote when aiming, you reload, 
 and swinging while your knife is drawn... well, swings your knife.
  Waving your Wii remote is also important as it is often how you escape/dodge an enemies attack 
 and avoid certain death in the edge of your seat cutscenes. Movement is also applied in some of 
 the other context-sensitive moments, such as activating levers.
  
  You have the same standard weapons in the game. Handguns, shotguns, machine guns, rifles, and magnums 
 are the common ones, and there are quite a few hidden weapons earned by completing certain aspects 
 of the game.
  
  The game has underwent a few tweaks since the GC version. Prices are readjusted, enemies appear 
 in different places, and healing items are no longer largely stocked by the merchant.
  
  This game could've been sold full price by Capcom and it would still be worth it, but at just a 
 mere 35$ (Canadian) you get this excellent update, as well as all the extras that came with the 
 PS2 version. Seperate Ways and a movie browser are among the many new (to Nintendo) unlockables.
 
  
  In short, Unbelivable price, Unbelivable game. Definately something every Wii owner should have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aznkin58992
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 14, 2007 11:09 pm PT
Review:  The Title explains it all. This game will be talked about for ages. The Wii edition is the definative 
 edition, although it lacks any exclusive content nor a notable graphical boost. But even without 
 those additions, the game is simply revolutionary, and furthermore a bargain for 30 dollars (especially 
 if you're one of the lucky ones to have never played it before on a different console) . Even if 
 you've already experienced Resident Evil 4, the Wii edition is something you should not pass up. 
 If you own a Wii, get this game now if it isn't already a part of your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 8:57 am PT
Review:  This game revolutionized the survival horror genre two years ago on the Gamecube and this Wii make 
 is by far a better version of the game. I have read reviews that the controls are difficult and 
 can become hard in those hectic situations. I would have to totally disagree with that and say 
 that the Wii controls make this game easier. You now have the ability to aim far more precisely 
 making it almost feel like a FPS. I really realized how much better the controls were when I was 
 at the target practice. When I played the Gamecube version I struggled to get past some of the 
 harder shooting ranges. Well with the Wii mote I breezed right through these sections. Also the 
 knife is way more convenient with just a swing of the controller. I have also heard that the graphics 
 suffer and I would again disagree. Granted they are no longer the best out there anymore but they 
 definetely hold up nicely today, although I could not tell any difference between the Wii and Gamecube 
 versions. For those of you who haven't played this game the campaign will take you around 20 hours 
 to complete. The story is pretty good and will make you want to see it to its conclusion. All the 
 extra from the PS2 version are included (Separate Ways, Assignment Ada, and Mercenaries) . This 
 adds good replay to the game once you have completed the main story. There is also reason to play 
 through the main game because you get to keep all of your upgraded weapons which will make the 
 game easier but also give a player the ability to fully max out all of their arsenal (also an infinite 
 Rocket Launcher becomes available for 1,000,000 Pitas) . Overall if this version of the game would 
 have been the first then I would have gave this game a perfect score. Even after two years I feel 
 this is one of the best games available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eastwick_playa7
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 14, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  If you're looking to have fun and be frightened at the same time this game is perfect for you. 
 This game seems to bring the Wii to a whole new level, pushing it's capabilities a bit further. 
 The graphics are pretty much jaw dropping considering that the Wii doesn't really focus on that 
 aspect. The gameplay is straight up fun and will keep you awake through countless nights only to 
 be led by a horrific nightmare. All in all, this game works really well on the Wii and you should 
 look forward to the same if Resident Evil 5 has it's own exclusive on this console as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: visionedorange
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 13, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  The new version of Resident Evil 4 is definetly worth picking up. If your like me, and already 
 have a copy of the game and have played it to death, you should STILL buy this game. This new version 
 of Resident Evil 4 for the wii utilizes the Wii's unique sensor control that allows you to aim, 
 interact, and use your knife. These features alone make the game worth while to pick up, but if 
 you need more reason to buy this game, try the fact that it comes loaded up with all the bonus 
 content that the ps2 version had to offer, which includes the all new PRL laser cannon, 5 bonus 
 levels that you get to play through as Ada from the campaign, AND, its only $35 (Canadian) , which 
 is practically a steal for a chance to revisit this awesome game, with a new control system, and 
 new weapons and levels, this version of Resident Evil 4 is definetly worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiliconJon
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  At first I didn't want anything to do with the game for the mere reason there wasn't a strafe (ability 
 to walk sideways) . While this was annoying I eventually quit pouting over it and gave it another 
 shot. While the Wii's remote has great potential (that really hasn't been harnessed yet) , the shortcomings 
 of the controller's configuration add some difficulty to what would otherwise be far too easy in 
 normal mode.
  
  But rather than bore with any more lame technical mentions let me get to why this game is so addictive. 
 Every so often we get to a segment of the game that requires several tries to get past, and the 
 repetition doesn't come across as monotonous but as an exciting hurdle. This isn't the best part, 
 though. The most enjoyable feature of this game is how many times we have jumped clear off the 
 couch due to something in the game straight startling us (me and my boys of 7 and 8) . Such startling 
 is something I rarely experience, and completely get a kick out of, especially when done as well 
 as this game has.
  
  If it weren't for my youngest boy wiping out our ammo inventory during most of his turns this game 
 would be far too easy on normal mode. I will try a harder mode after we beat it a first time, and 
 hopefully it's not just a bunch of cheap AI cheats. Otherwise a good gamer may find this title 
 far too easy without upping the difficulty.
  
  As for the final word, when it comes to the Wii there's a shortage of titles that are worth more 
 than $5, but this one was worth every bit of the $30 we paid. An excellent bang-per-buck title 
 that will thrill you for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R1k0_88
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2007 2:49 am PT
Review:  And although I have yet to explore that new content, I CAN say that Capcom has done it again.
 
  
  What exactly? Well.. sucking the player right into a formidable piece of gameplay and graphics.
 
  
  The story starts out simple: You, Leon Scott Kennedy, former Raccoon City policeman now works for 
 the president of the US, and is on a mission to retrieve his kidnapped daughter. Simple plot, but 
 massive plot twists to go around, if you've played the game, you know what I'm talking about. Gameplay 
 has been perfectioned, since the Wiimote supports aiming at the screen and being motion-sensitive. 
 The controls are being translated to the screen very accruately, and buttons do what you expect 
 them to, so controls are absolutely flawless.
  
  Graphics haven't changed, except the game looks a bit sharper, buy you'll barely notice.
  
 
  Overall, this game is the dream of what every survival-horror-fan, or everybody who likes action. 
 If you haven't played RE4 before, I'll say:
  OK, it's game time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boywondereyed
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 12, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Oh God - I'm not making any friends here am I ...?
  
  I really want to like the Wii but so far I'm not overly impressed. I had RE4 on the Gamecube and 
 it's one of the best games ever made. I played it solidly for about a year so perhaps the problem 
 is I've played it too much.
  
  This version is exactly the same game as the Gamecube version (with some of the PS2 extra bits 
 added on) with an added novelty - you use the wii remote to aim and fire. It's a nice touch but 
 the novelty soon wears off and it's certainly not worth buying this version just for this feature.
 
  
  I'm finding it really hard to be impressed by the wii which so far in my opinion is a Gamecube 
 with motion sensitive controls.
  
  However titles such as RE Chronicles and Mario Galaxy are looking hot so I'll hang on for a bit 
 longer and spare my wii the chop.
  
  But seriously if you've played the Gamecube version don't buy this as you'll be a victim of the 
 wii fan-boy hype that seems to be rampant at the moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walladude2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition is definitely one of the best games out for the Wii right now. In 
 the game, as in most of the other Resident Evil games, you take the role of Leon Kennedy, who is 
 on a mission to rescue the President's daughter. The main change in this version from the GameCube 
 and the Playstation 2 version is the new control scheme, which almost makes you feel like part 
 of the game. The graphics and sound also are pretty good. If you're looking for a game that will 
 give you bang for the buck, Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition, at only $30 USD, is definitely it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACDC19
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 11, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 simply cannot be beat in the survival horror genre. First we will start out with 
 the graphics. Truly amazing the stages in this game look beautiful. The character models look very 
 well crafted, and the same with the villagers and monsters. Now we will move on to the greatest 
 part of this game. Gameplay. You will simply not get bored with this game you will constantly be 
 running for your life and shooting villagers. You will simply not get bored with this game. The 
 cutscenes in this game are epic and fast-paced action you will love every second of this game till 
 the ending. Now lets talk about difficulty its not bad its pretty good I'd say the difficulty is 
 just right. And for you veteran Resident Evil players there is even harder difficulty setting which 
 is very satisfying. Now lets talk about replayability there is suprisingly alot of replayability 
 in this game. After you beat it you will unlock a whole bunch of minigames which are very fun. 
 And after you beat the minigames why not replay the game on a higher difficulty setting. This game 
 is just a must have for anyone with a Wii. And if I may quote Matt C. The only problem with this 
 game is that it is 2 years late . Thats all. Even if you have played this game on another console 
 I still recommend that you buy this edition. I mean you can't go wrong with a asking price of $30. 
 So should you buy this game. The answer is  
::::::

::::::
UserName: COMBATER202
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 11, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  This game is much better and more fun then the gamecube edition. They have made a slight upgrade 
 in the graphics and the gameplay is a lot better! What I mean is that the shooting engine is a 
 lot funner and all around better. Instead of having a laser to aim were you shoot you use the Wii 
 remote to control an aimer on the screen and shoot with the A button. I liked this addition to 
 the game because it made the game feel much more like you were in the game. It even added to the 
 scare or fright-ness that you get out of playing it. No matter how many times you play this it 
 always seems to satisfy and should for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: band_aid
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 11, 2007 4:02 am PT
Review:  honestly i can say i have not played a first person shooter since medal of honor underground for 
 ps1, but i bought a wii and as most of you know there arent alot of good games out of it (yet?) . 
 ray man and wario are both really fun but short rents at best and super paper mario can kill some 
 time but the dialog is mindnumbing. I got MKA for the 60 plus characters but its still just a button 
 masher. My wife is playing Zelda and she like it , but i just cant get into it. I dont really know 
 why i havent played any fps's in such a long time untill i picked up my wiimote and started blasting 
 away zombies. It changed everything for me the look the feel the touch the noises killing a zombie 
 never felt so right. there were a lot of thing that could of been added or changed to make the 
 game better but it has rekindled my love for shooting stuff .... in the head ...... alot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stonzreaper
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 10, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  AMAZING:- Best Wii Game i Have .. ( Redsteel, Zelda, Wiisports)
  
  Well The Game is very much the same as the other ones. ( NOTE:- Ive never played the other ones.)
 
  
  The Prezes Daughter is kidnapped and u gotta get her. Also there is a cult who puts bugs inside 
 people.
  
  The controls are great and easy getting use to. Hold the trigger to aim and click A too Shhot. 
 BOOM SHEADTSHOT ( By the way are easier to do now)
  
  The Graphics havent changed. Only slight changes. eg;- Barrel details and blood details. But still 
 STUNNING
  
  Very much awesome plus loads o fextras at a budget price. Only downfall is some camera issues but 
 youll get over it quick.
  
  Stop reading any reviews about this game and go get it. Worth it even if youve got the older versions. 
 GREAT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavidRswii
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 10, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Well this is 1 of the better games 4 the Wii so I can't say much besides u HAVE 2 PLAY THIS GAME. As 
 well it's only 30 BUCKS come on thats the greatest deal u can get on a game new or used for a game 
 like this. Graphics are unchanged and it looks much better than any other game out hter right now 
 which is dissapointing. Gameplay remends unchanged but with a new fresh control scheme (on top of 
 that u could also play with GameCube controller for those plp who don't have a PS2) . Sound remends 
 the same as well nothing changed but still sounds great. I think that this is a Buy so what are 
 u waiting for go buy it. This game is 1 uve been waiting 4 on the Wii since Zelda. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murrayblake
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 10, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 is a truly great game. It has been perfectly adapted to work with the Wii's new 
 control scheme. RE4 is the best First-Person shooter I have ever played. Now, let's get to the 
 review.
  
  Gameplay- This game handles very, very well. The controls for this game could not have been much 
 better. This is probably the Wii game that most feels like you are controlling the gun in your 
 hand. Everything from pointing and aiming to shooting and even making precise head shots is perfect 
 with the Wii-mote. Other things that contribute to game play are the ability to slash with a knife 
 and easy access to a menu where you can find your health &amp; ammo and switch weapons.
  
  Graphics- The graphics are amazing, especially for a remake of a GameCube &amp; PS2 game. The frame 
 rate is very smooth and the graphics are pretty crisp and the surroundings are quite detailed. 
 Overall, this is game is pleasing to look at.
  
  Sound- The sound works well for me. Now, you can hear your gun re-load through the speaker. There 
 isn't any soundtrack for the game, but you will need the sound on because when the zombies are 
 near you can hear them chanting and groaning. Also, when you hear the chainsaw for the first time, 
 it will put you on the edge of your seat.
  
  Value- The value is amazing. This game is a great deal for the price of $30. This game also has 
 a great replay value, because once you beat the game for the first time, you can start the game 
 over again with your same weapons and upgrades. The second time around, there are also new weapons 
 and costumes.
  
  Tilt- This game is definitely worth adding to your Wii collection whether you're a fan of Resident 
 Evil 4. It''s a different direction from other Resident Evil games, as the zombies are actually 
 just people infected with a virus, making this game less grotesque and gory. This is an amazing 
 First-Person shooter and a must-play for anyone who is a fan of the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickyiscool
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 10, 2007 12:55 am PT
Review:  This is one of those game that i play when i get bored I liked the other 2 versions and this one 
 is kinda better somehow. It uses the wiimote really great the gameplay is really smooth and the 
 controls arent that bad either. This is my Favorite game for the GC, PS2, and now probably the wii. 
 The game is still challenging and it has everything from the ps2 version so its a really good game. 
 This is a game i recommend to all wii owners unless u dont like RE games or isnt into shooters 
 but still if u got a wii u gotta try this game out it feels great and its just awesome when u play 
 it with the wiimote and nunchuck but this is just my opinon but still if u got a wii check this 
 game out!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w00t_3000
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  Okay sure, you might have played the Gamecube version, the PS2 version, and maybe even the PC version, 
 but you never played Resident Evil to the fullest until you play the Wii Edition of the game. The 
 Wii motion sensing controls are fun in this game. In the other versions in this game, you have 
 lasers to aim. But in the Wii version, there's a little crossfire cursor that's on your screen. 
 Moving your Wii Remote around will be how you aim in this game. Sure it makes the game a little 
 easier now, but it's a whole lot of fun! (But if you want, you can also play with the Gamecube 
 controller or the classic controller. Just disconnect the Nunchuck at the title screen) You'll 
 get used to the Wii controls and have a great time. The Wii edition also has features found in 
 the PS2 version like the Assignment Ada minigame. Resident Evil 4 does not contain zombies. Instead 
 it's parasite controlled people who you will be fighting against. Then again, there's also chain-saw 
 wielding foes, giant monsters, the Garrador, (the dude with the claws) and many others! This Resident 
 Evil isn't as scary as the other games, but it's action packed. And frankly, I like it better this 
 way. If you have a Wii, don't hesitate to pick this one up. It's awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KAL_MAN
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 9, 2007 12:36 am PT
Review:  The game's original form was released in early 2005. ground breaking then, ground breaking now. 
 with impressive new controls for a port, stunning surround sound usage, and some of the best graphics 
 for the wii yet, this game is a steal for only 30 bucks! In the wii's post-launch days, the system 
 was touted for being able to emulate the first persion perspective better than any other home console. 
 now this may not be a first person shooter, but it is definately a shooter, and a huge step in 
 the right direction to true FPS control. you control leon's arsenal of awsome weapons using the 
 IR control function of the Wii remote. In english, you point at the screen and shoot. the only 
 gripe I have is that you can not toggle with the remote. when you want to shoot, you have to stop 
 and enter the action mode by pressing and holding the B button. this stops leon from moving to 
 and fro but you can still move the screen, which unfortunately is done using the analog stick. 
 however awkward this may seem. it does not hinder the experience at all. it just adds a steep learning 
 curve and, ironically, tones down the difficulty level a tad. 9/10 (almost there!!!) The Gamecube 
 was the lesser of the three competing game systems between the xbox and ps2. But that didn't stop 
 this game from bursting out of the high-production-value gate, and kicking some major visual ass! 
 now, today compared with hi-res games on the 360 and ps3 this game might not look so good. but 
 that's not fair. The wii isn't capable of such high end graphics. understandable... granted, re4: 
 wii edition undeniably works with what it's givin. the game runs in 480p and true 16:9 widescreen. 
 compared with the available wii library so far, this game looks awsome! if only though the porting 
 process didn't hamper it a little teeny bit. it doesn't look as good as the gamecube version, or 
 even the ps2 version for that matter, when running side by side. but still, it's the best choice 
 for graphics on the wii. 8/10
  
  Flawless would be the word I use to describe the sound in re4: wii edtion. If you are lucky enough 
 to own a 5.1 surround sound home theotor system, you must play this game on it! Every speaker is 
 utilized brilliantly. when you hear the unsettling breathing of a regenerator behind you, or the 
 revving the chainsaws the bella sisters possess, you better high tail it out of there and find 
 some ammo quick! I don't have any problems with the sound in re4: wii edtion. 10/10
  
  it's $30! go buy it!!! if you were like me and never played the ps2 version's extra content, then 
 this is definately enough insentive to make you go out and buy this game. 10/10
  
  white-knuckle action and creepy subtle moments, mixed with almost perfect gameplay and awsome surround 
 sound makes this game have perfect tilt for me. it being $30 is just sugar on top. 9/10
  
  9.1 baby!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xo_xjennyx_xo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 8, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  resident evil 4 (wii) my favorite thing about this game is I find you have alot more control using 
 the wiimote , its defiantly an amazing new feature ... it just blew me away on this game. its scary, 
 fun and sooooo entertaining . I loved it and i cant wait for more !!!!! This Game kicks Royal A$$ 
 !!!! I would highly recomend this game to anyone ... its just simply effin AMAZING !!! resident 
 evil 4 (wii) my favorite thing about this game is I find you have alot more control using the wiimote 
 , its defiantly an amazing new feature ... it just blew me away on this game. its scary, fun and 
 sooooo entertaining . I loved it and i cant wait for more !!!!! This Game kicks Royal A$$ !!!! 
 I would highly recomend this game to anyone ... its just simply effin AMAZING !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THSfootball60
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 8, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  This game makes you wonder how you ever functioned on a gamecube or PS2. The controls are perfect 
 for this game and the real on. lt set back for me was that the graphics weren't any better than 
 when they were on the cube but the gameplay is better and Leon still kicks Plagas butt. This game 
 Twilight Princess, and Super Paper Mario are the only must buy games for the Wii. If you aren't 
 sick of RE4 or haven't played it yet, then this is a must buy for people with Wii's who are like 
 me and only waiting for Metroid Prime 3, Brawl, and Mario Galaxy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAX0R7
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 8, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  I think that this game is awesome but i think that the game cube version was better. I think this 
 because the controls a a bit easier for the game cube at first , and it takes a while to get used 
 to the wii-motes aiming and sensitivity of the wii-mote my make it hard. over all this this game 
 is worth checking out because it is so fun and pretty creepy!! because it's alwas fun to blow off 
 zombies head's with a suped up pitol or an powerful shotgun. That brings up another good aspect 
 on the game which is being able to get new and strong wepons like the infianet ammo rocket luancher!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grant_Guy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 8, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  I have the original Resident Evil 4 for my gamecube and i thought that game was very good but after 
 i beat it twice i just stopped playing cause it got boring... So then one day my friend lends me 
 his copy of RE4 for the Wii and at first i really didn't want it because i've beaten the game but 
 i had nothing to do so i decided to try it out... It was amazing i found it A LOT better than the 
 gamecube because it really took advantage of the Wii mote. So i stuck through the game and played 
 till the end having a lot better experience playing this game than the gamecube version. Gameplay 
 10/10
  
  Flawless even for a 2 year old game cube game ported to the wii the game play is really what shines 
 the brightest in this game. The intense action, the moments of suspense, the puzzle elements, and 
 use of the Wii-Mote is all what make this game get a perfect 10 in my books.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  
  The graphics in this game are amazing... Even though its a game that is 2 
 years old it is... dare i say it... the best looking Wii game to date. Everything is so detailed 
 it holds up to next generation games.
  
  Sound 10/10
  
  Sound in survival horror games are crucial. If the music sucks its the equivalent to watching a 
 scary movie with the sound muted... It just doesn't scare you. But in RE4 im glad to say the sound 
 in this game is kick a** and is the biggest factor to why i sometimes get scared while playing 
 this game.
  
  Value 8/10
  
  The value in this game is pretty good for a single player game. It has around a 15-20 hour campaign, 
 2 separate modes where you play as ada and The Mercenaries. Its a really good value for a single 
 player only game.
  
  Tilt 10/10
  
  I really enjoyed myself playing this game... I would say this is my favorite wii game to date, 
 even beating out zelda for this title. If you haven't already played this game... I don't know 
 where you've been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dualmask
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 7, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  Graphics are amazingly detailed, even better than the Gamecube version. Everything appears sharper 
 and cleaner than ever before. Sounds and voices are just about perfect as well.
  
  Controls are a mixed bag. On the one hand, the regular gameplay is completely enhanced by the Wii 
 controls, although I found myself wishing the buttons were reversed. The Wii Remote's B button 
 is very trigger-like, so I found it a bit strange that holding B readies your weapon while A fires. 
 On the other hand, doing it vice versa would probably be uncomfortable. But aside from that, the 
 controls are everything you want them to be. Headshots are a breeze -- just aim where you want and 
 fire. No waiting for Leon's arms to go where you want them to. Although strangely (yet understandably) 
 you still have to use the analog stick to aim while using the rifle. I suppose there was no way 
 around that due to the limited view of the sniping scope. (By the way, don't let anyone tell you 
 different; if you prefer classic controls with analog joysticks and the laser sight instead of 
 the targeting reticle, you CAN use the Wii Classic Controller with this game and it will work just 
 fine, though I don't know why you'd want to.)
  
  What bothered me about the controls was that the Wii targeting was not delegated to anything else. 
 Why can't you 'point and click' in the menus as well? It feels a tad awkward having these brilliant 
 motion controls during gameplay and still having to use the D-pad or analog stick on the Nunchuk 
 to navigate menus. You get used to it, but it feels like a missed opportunity to make the overall 
 game more fluid. I also wish Capcom would have programmed the option for the player to choose between 
 having the targeting reticle and the laser sight while using Wii controls. Let the gamer decide 
 how much they need their hand held, will you?
  
  For those who have never played RE4 (if there is anyone) , know that a lengthy, challenging, enjoyable 
 quest awaits you, lots of Ganado and monster blasting goodness with various upgradeable weapons, 
 secrets to find, an engaging story to discover (that kind of falls a bit flat in the end) and lots 
 of secrets. Beat it once and you'll unlock various modes including the always enjoyable Mercenaries 
 minigame. If you have played the PS2 version, there's nothing here new except Wii controls (which 
 admittedly make the game a whole new experience) , but if you've only played the GC version (which 
 doesn't have an extra scenario starring Ada Wong that is present in the PS2 and Wii versions) or 
 haven't played RE4 at all, this is the version to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason_jalet
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 7, 2007 3:46 am PT
Review:  As everyone knows, RE4 was previously released on GC and PS2. Well, even after two years it gets 
 a re-release on the Wii -and its as exciting now as it was 2 years ago!
  
  This game is really brilliant. From storyline to characters, scenery to weapons, everything is 
 truly well thought out. And its a long game too, with a nice difficulty level.
  
  Graphics: not as breathtaking as it was 2 years ago, but it still looks amazing. It looks as good 
 as any game on the Wii so far.
  
  Wii aiming-scheme: as you should know by now, the Wii offers a special aiming scheme thanks to 
 its special controller. The aiming works greatly on this game. Very fluid, very responsive, very 
 enjoyable. You wont be dissapointed.
  
  Sounds: from music to sound effects to voicing, everything here is great also. All the main characters 
 have decent voices, and the dialogues are a little cheesy but it adds to the game. Some enemy voices 
 get repetitive, but its not a bother in any way. Sound effects (ir gun souding, footsteps... etc..) 
 are all well produced here too. Storyline: the presidents daughter gets kidnapped and you have 
 to save her. Sound typical and not very amusing, but it does get better as you progress through 
 the game as more characters get involved and then a whole conspiracy. Will keep you avid untill 
 the end.
  
  Lenght: very decent lenght. Will last you more than 15h, and anything between that and 25h, depending 
 on how good a gamer you are at this type of game.
  
  Gameplay: thanks to a new control-scheme, Leon is very easy to control. If you've played previous 
 RE games, you will find this control scheme extremely different. You might like it, but you might 
 hate it. This RE doesnt capture survival horror as much as the other RE games, but certainly improves 
 the action.
  
  Extras: good news for previous GC owners of the game: you get all the extras from the PS2 version 
 of the game, and the great graphics of the GC version. In other words, this is the ideal version 
 to get. Overall: an excellent game overall, with minor, if not any flaws. If you've played the game 
 before (especially the PS2 version) you should consider renting the game before you buy it, as 
 you get virtually no more extras than the PS2 version (bar the aiming and the graphics) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wild_Card
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 6, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Whats to say about this game that has not been said.... Nothing realy. It is the same awsome game 
 that hit the gamecube a couple of years ago. With the Wii edition we get all the extra content 
 that came on the PS2 version such as the kool sepert ways missions and we get uber controls. The 
 new Wii controls for aiming lightgun style realy adds alot to the game and very much adds not only 
 to the fun but imersion as well. If you have not already played this game then its a must on the 
 Wii. even for those that have played it on the GC i feel the 29.99$ price makes it worth the secound 
 go round. the only dispointment i have with these release is that dispite the Wii have more performnce 
 capcom made no attempt to clean up the graphics. higher res textures, some antialiasing to clean 
 up the picture qulity could have been fairly easly added into the game. Maby even some bloom style 
 lighting like in MP3 would have been realy awsome. for those that are on the trendy graphics dont 
 matter bandwaggon then this is a non issue and just pretend i gave the game a higher score :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fon1988
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 4, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition is a port of the 2005 GCN release of Resident Evil 4, with all of 
 the bonus content from the PS2 version included with improved controls thanks to the innovative 
 Wii-remote, making a nearly perfect game come even closer to perfection. If for some reason you 
 have never played Resident Evil 4, you are in for one hell of a ride but for those of you that 
 have, this game is definitly worth a play through again. The story begins in a morbid village in 
 the outskirts of Europe where we re-join Leon S. Kennedy from Resident Evil 2, as a government 
 agent in search of the stolen presidents daughter. Shortly after the game begins, the two buddies 
 you are with get killed and you are attacked by some excentric villagers that have some of the 
 symptoms of regular zombies but are not actually zombies themselves. A story of betrayal, horror, 
 and heroism unfolds before you and is accompanied by some of the greatest gameplay and graphics 
 that have ever been created in video game history.
  
  Gameplay wise, the game is as close to perfection as you can imagine. WIth the innovatition the 
 Wii-remote can roll out, everything from aiming to custom actions are played out perfectly. You 
 move Leon with the control stick of the nun-chuck and the camera will constantly remain behind 
 him so its never an issue, aim with the IR, run holding Z, swinging the remote to bring out the 
 now auto-aimed knife, and holding B will bring up the green aimer where you press A to fire. It 
 sounds confusing and can be hectic in the early heat of battle but once you master these controls, 
 you will NEVER want to play the other versions again. This is the must have version of Resident 
 Evil 4 and only once a person experiences these controls will they understand the true potential 
 this game brings out of the Wii. The majority of the game consists of gunning down zombies, fighting 
 gigantic bosses that become stronger and more engrossing as the game goes on and solving quick, 
 sometimes difficult puzzles. There is a set path to follow but the game allows just enough exploration 
 so you don't feel trapped and you will always want to explore an area thoroughly to find ammo, 
 health and sometimes rare items that can be sold to the mysterious shop keeper who appears in the 
 strangest of places. Boxes and crates hide the various items and sometimes, with a sharp eye, you 
 can spot little shiny spots that you can shoot or walk to, to find some useful or rare items. The 
 pacing Capcom set for the game can be described only as perfect. As you progress you fight bigger, 
 stronger enemies that gain better A. I. and perform more moves to try and bring you down. But not 
 to worry, once you get enough cash you can buy guns, rocket launchers, rifles, bigger item packs (Which 
 you will definitly need) , and even tune-up your guns to make them stronger than you can imagine. 
 All of this costs money though so explore every area and kill every enemy to gain as much money 
 as you can. Selling rare items is another great way to gain money. Don't ever set your controller 
 down, not even for a second because another star of this game are the interactive movie scenes. 
 For example, sometimes you'll be in a movie scene watching leon and another character talk, when 
 out of nowhere you'll have to swing the remote or press a and b at the same time to make him dodge 
 or run away from an enemy. This makes the whole immersion of the game that much better and is truley 
 an innovative feature.
  
  Graphic wise, the game still holds up after two years and is one of the prettiest titles on the 
 Wii. Lighting effects, splattering heads, wind in the trees and all the spooky places you'll visit 
 are filled with detail and though it doesn't look as good as a 360/PS3 game, it gets the job done 
 great. The enviroments all look life-like and realistic and this adds to the immersion of every 
 place you'll visit and is truley a sight to behold.
  
  Sound wise, the music is nearly in nearly perfect balance between the horror filled tunes to the 
 classic resident evil action music but long stretches of silence or quiet music sometimes leaves 
 you wishing for more. Not much more at all since the music that does play is great in just about 
 every aspect but by no means will this small complaint affect your experience with this amazing 
 game.
  
  All the features of the Gamcube and PS2 versions are here and includes the in-game graphical movie 
 scenes that was lost in the latter game which makes the experience much more fluid. Overall, the 
 game that rocked the Resident Evil world back in 2005 has joined a new platform and everything 
 has been improved upon thanks to the amazing Wii-remote. This is a must have Wii game and for just 
 $29.99 it's the perfect choice for any and every gamer lucky enough to get their hands on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tailscoolio
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 6, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  Many, such as i, will be able to remember the classical resident evil games; slow loading times, 
 bad graphics and tricky movement. But resi. 4 has changed that concept and has been making a legend 
 of the genre of horror. Game developers decided to lose the faults of resident evil in the gamecube 
 version of number 4 but when they brought it out on the wii, they gained something else...
  
  For anyone who still doesn't know, you're Leon, an ex-cop turned FBI agent working for the 
 president and you're first mission is to rescue the presidents daughter. There's a detailed storyline 
 running all the way through to keep things going and more bloodshed than you can shake a stick 
 at to spruce the game up a bit... okay, a lot. To say that the graphics haven't changed much since 
 the jump from gamecube to the wii is pretty impressive because it is lookin' sweet even for a wii 
 game.
  
  Sadly, like all wii games so far, it takes time for you to learn how to control Leon properly. 
 However, on the brighter side of life the learning curve isn't that steep once you've blown a few 
 heads from their bloody neck.
  
  it doesn't matter which platform you had it on before, (if you had it before) you're still going 
 to see something that you recognise since the developers have managed to fit in all the extras 
 from gamecube and playstation 2, with some fantastic wepons to use once you've completed them all.
 
  
  Overall, its already a big success and is using it's potential very well, it could go far, perhaps 
 it already has... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crunchUK
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 4, 2007 4:07 am PT
Review:  re4 was an awesome game for both the gamecube and the Ps2. and now, the nintendo Wii. with awsesome, 
 immersive, controls, the same terror and emotion, and slightly improved graphics, RESIDENT EVIL 
 IS BACK.
  
  the story is set in the late ninties, and the president's daughter has been kidknapped by an unknown 
 group of terrorists and you, a special forces guy, Leon, are in charge of rescuing her. where do 
 zombies come in? i will not say, it'd ruin the game for you. RE4, is a soup of several game genres, 
 shoot 'em up, adventure, action, and a hint of RPG. while most FPSes basically numb your brain 
 while you kill mindlessly, resident evil 4 does bang on the opposite, making you feel the intensity, 
 the fear, the exhiliration, even. and with riddles and puzzles aplenty, which can sometimes get 
 annoying.
  
  The main new feature on the Wii is, yep, the use of the wiimote, which i have to comment, works 
 and feels great. and makes you enter and experience the game all the more. Basically, aiming, is 
 done with the sensor, press B to prime your weapon, and then, press A to shoot. and the unfortunate 
 zombie's head comes right off, and sometimes gets replaced by a new- oops, never mind, and if you 
 slash the wiimote you will draw and slash, in a flash, your combat knife. and as you may have guessed 
 the nunchuck control stick is to move. also, another thing. there are some actions that appear 
 on the bottom of the screen where you have topress a button/shake the Wii mote/other VERY QUICKLY, 
 to say, dodge an enemy, sprint away from a boulder, stab an enemy, kick his head, off, etcetera, 
 you've got the picture. all this, as i said before, give the game more, i dunno, personality, zest, 
 play the game, you'll soon realize what i mean.
  
  Conclusion, resident evil 4 wii edition, an awesome game, made even more awesome, is that even 
 possible?!? by the Wii's innotave functions, BUT, it's exactly the same story, and thereforethose 
 who have played the GC or PS2 versions will not be able to shake off a feeling of deja vu. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastarifla
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 4, 2007 2:09 am PT
Review:  This is my first time actually buying RE:4 even though I played it on PS2/Gamecube. You get the 
 graphics and extra features of the PS2. The functionality of the Wii-mote (or Gamecube Controller) 
 and a sound quality thats better than any version to date.
  
  Gameplay: Same quality gameplay you expect from a RE game. The Wii-mote makes the game a tad bit 
 easier after a while of playing it but if you want a challenge you can always plug in the Gamecube 
 Controller or raise the difficulty.
  
  Graphics: Graphics still hold up to the test of time, even after 2 years. It could have been optimized 
 for the Wii's hardware but the constant flow of cut scene to gameplay was amazing. With the added 
 support of progressive scan it makes it easier to see zombies in the distance.
  
  Sound: Great sound quality! Really immerses you into the game and gives it the creepy atmosphere. 
 The sound effects are more crisp, thanks to the Wii-mote. Voice acting and soundtrack are amazing 
 as well.
  
  Value: How can you pass up a $30 port that did everything right? This is by far the definitive 
 version, spot on controls with the option to use the Gamecube Controller if needed, superb graphics, 
 all of the extras of the PS2 and Gamecube versions, and the low price of $30... I am glad I waited 
 for it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yomamathe4th
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 4, 2007 1:36 am PT
Review:  Now then when resident evil 4 came out on gamecube it was and probally still is the biggest game 
 on the wii for one very important reason the gameplay now if you own the ps2 or the gamcube version 
 of this game i still recomend u buy it for wii beacuse its all the same good gameplay we've come 
 to love but even better i mean come on who can't have fun with this game the sound is spot on the 
 graphics.... actually seem dated now the weapons are customizeable and the pro mode mercinaries 
 and asignment ada will keep u comin back for more i know it did for me. but on the bad side of 
 the game is that the graphics are very old looking compared to the 360 and ps3 games there shipping 
 out and sometimes the wii mote won't respond to actions in the cutsecen things or whatever -.- 
 but still pick up this game even if u don't like the series its only 30 bucks so ya go.... now... please 
 lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaedeDiablo
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 4, 2007 12:05 am PT
Review:  The best part of this port-port, is the use of the wiimote, and I dont why is compatible with gamecube 
 controller, if they are a version for gamecube.
  The graphics are only a little bit enhanced, nothing out of normal, but you sure realize that.
 
  The sound the same, the gameplay the same, when in fact a little worse because the crappy wii 
 mote.
  The PS2 exclusive it was include it, but is not a good excuse to buy it.
  I only recommend that title for the survivor horror fans, or the resident evil fan. Anyone more, 
 just feel mugged with this tittle.
  Nintendo and Capcom, are now a good couple, how wants all our money, for the same game. What a 
 shame!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Best_yet22
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 3, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Never in my teenage life have I had to gather enough heart to play a video game! I only had this 
 game fr a week and I can tell you, I havent gotten anywhere. And it's not because it's hard, the 
 game is the scariest Resident Evil I've played since I was 6 and I played the first in 1996. This 
 game is crazy, A. I. crazy, Sound crazy, Story Crazy. I mean on the A. I., I shot a villager from 
 atop od what seemed to be a barn, the guy comes in the barn, up the ladder and on the roof part 
 with me, and take it in that I shot him from a great distance and he came all they way over.
  
  I got the game for Wii, because I never played the GCN version but I heard alot of people talking 
 about it and it was a must buy. The Wii version implements the Wii-Mote well, and it also uses 
 the Classic but Im not getting into the controls. The graphics are still breath taking and great, 
 even as a GCN remake it; s still a High end Wii looker for right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game__Raider
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 3, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game the controls felt wierd and unstable. But after a few hours of gameplay 
 I fell in love with the controls and the storyline sucked me in right there.
  
  You play as an American agent named Leon Scott Kennedy. He is set out on a mission to save the President's 
 daughter from kidnappers , but as he is caught up in the kidnapping he unveils a plot to take over 
 the world. He comes in contact with people infected with the t-virus called Ganados. When he finds 
 the President's daughter they keep getting into trouble wich forces him to stop Lord Saddler the 
 man who planned all this out and started the virus.
  
  RE4 is a lengthy game for a first-person shooter. It should take you at least 20 hours the first 
 play through , but it doesn't stop there. After you beat the game the first time you unlock many 
 new modes and weapons to use in future play throughs. If you beat the game once you will unlock 
 the MAtilda and Infinite Launcher which you can buy from the Merchant. If you beat Seperate Ways 
 and 5 star everything in Mercenaries you unlock more goodies that are even more fun to use.
  
  The upgrading system in this game is easy yet helpful and satisfying. When you go to the Merchant 
 press Tune-Up and you can basically upgrade an part of the weapons you have. The main ones you 
 really need is firepower and capacity the others are really optional.
  
  RE4 on the Wii is easily the best RE game to date and provides you endless hours of gameplay fun.
 
  
  Seperate Ways is an unlockable 5-6 hour mini story about more of what was going on around the mysterious 
 Ada as you play as her. Also if you beat it it unlocks the Chicago Typewriter which is an amazing 
 gun with infinite ammo.
  
  RE4 is a game that should not be missed by anyone , and for only $30 dollars its practically a 
 steal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blace_07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  When Resident Evil 4 first came out on the Gamecube, it redefined the survival horror genre. Granted 
 this is much more an action game than it is a survival horror game, you can still plainly tell 
 that its roots lie in the survival horror genre. With Resident Evil 4 Wii Edition, Capcom is trying 
 to make and already unbelievable game even better. The entire porting complaints aside, this is 
 most definitely the best version of a true classic and is also the best game now available for 
 the Nintendo Wii.
  
  Anyone who has experience Resident Evil 4 before, be it on the Gamecube or PS2 (or for some crazy 
 reason the PC) will definitely feel right at home with this game as soon as they figure out the 
 controls. While they take a little time to get used to, the player definitely gets paid back. The 
 controls are so elegantly designed that even an amateur Resident Evil player can get used to them 
 and have a blast after a couple of minutes. Instead of aiming with the joystick you are given control 
 of aiming with the Wiimote, which makes it much easier to get that head shot on the plagas. To 
 aim, you hold the B button down and just aim away, but unlike all the other versions of Resident 
 Evil 4, the camera doesnt move for you while aiming, as it would cause much frustration. Instead, 
 while you are aiming you can move the camera around with the joystick on the nunchuk. It is definitely 
 a little awkward at first for a person that has played other version, but is was definitely necessary 
 to make these controls work. Also, knifing is now as easy as swinging the Wiimote across the screen 
 back and forth, with even a lock-on feature to make it easier to cut open barrels or run up on 
 an enemy and gut them. You can still do it the old way if you like, by holding down the shoulder 
 button and aiming with the nunchuks joystick, but I dont see any real reason to. Moving around 
 with Leon is done by the joystick on the nunchuk, and running is easier thanks to it being on a 
 separate hand from the aiming one. Reloading your weapons is as easy as holding down the B button 
 and swinging the remote up, or pressing any of the control pads directions while holding down the 
 B button.
  
  The new controls definitely heighten the experience, but if you are someone that hasnt played 
 Resident Evil 4 before (or just someone who doesnt like these controls for some reason) , Capcom 
 was nice and even added in the original control scheme to run with the classic controller. It goes 
 all long way to showing that Capcom cares about the player and wants them to be able to play the 
 game in any fashion they desire. As much as the controls help the game become more immersive, there 
 is a noticeable downside for some. Since it is easier to get a head shot or knife something, the 
 difficulty has become easier than it was on the other versions. This should in no way persuade 
 people not to buy the game though, because there are multiple difficulties you can play through 
 and that gives the game a nice replay value.
  
  Probably anyone that is into the Resident Evil series has already played this game on one of the 
 earlier platforms, but for those that havent the story takes place in Europe, where Leon S. Kennedy 
 (introduced on the PS1 in Resident Evil 2) has been sent on a rescue mission to find and get the 
 Presidents daughter back. He is contacted and briefed by Hannigan through their special walkie 
 talkie thing. What the U. S. doesnt know though, is that there is a much greater threat at large 
 here, at is doesnt look good. Many other familiar faces are present for Resident Evil fans, and 
 some might even come as a surprise. This certainly may sound like a simple story for someone who 
 hasnt played the game yet, but the characters are casted greatly and really liven up the game. 
 It also has quite a few surprise twists mixed in and is just truly much better than it sounds. 
 It also mixes greatly with all the action taking place, almost like a good Hollywood action film.
 
  
  Easily the biggest complaint from people is going to be that the graphics arent up to par with 
 the Wiis potential since it is a port, but they are actually wrong. Even if Resident Evil 4 is 
 a port, it is still one of the best looking games the Wii has seen this far. Even better than some 
 games that have been designed exclusively for the Wii and that just goes to show how much of a 
 breakthrough this game was for its time. The sound quality is also still a shining example of everything 
 done right. The soundtrack is scary, intense, and just an absolute masterpiece. The voice-acting, 
 even if slightly cheesy at times, is still of very high quality and totally worth recognition. 
 Resident Evil 4 Wii Edition should, for no reason be shunned be fans for being a port because these 
 production values are still very much top-notch.
  
  Gamecube fans of the original will also be happy to know that all the once exclusive content in 
 the PS2 port will be playable in this version. Adas side missions (Separate Ways) are playable 
 and so is all the original extra content from the Gamecube version. PS2 fans obviously wont be 
 impressed, but since most of the people that will be buying this game will be Nintendo fans, they 
 are getting extra content they havent yet played, and that alone might be enough for them to warrant 
 this purchase. And if all the new content and controls isnt enough, Capcom puts the icing on the 
 cake with their 29.99 price tag. Resident Evil 4 is one of the greatest games of all time, and 
 this is the best version. Any fan of the original should play this version and so should any other 
 Wii owner that hasnt yet played this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayers228
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 2, 2007 4:17 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 was first released on the Gamecube system with spectacular graphics, fun and inovative 
 gameplay, interactive cut-scenes, great sound, and some of the most a** kicking weapons to ever 
 be seen in a Resident Evil game. For those of you that have not played this game you are in for 
 a treat because not only do you get the original game, you get the Wii great control scheme, and 
 all of the bonus material that was introduced when RE4 came out for the PS2.
  
  Resident Evil 4 for the Wii is basically the same game you purchased a few years back on the Gamecube 
 or PS2 except for a few perks, such as better graphics, more vibrant colors, and the items in RE4 
 Wii Edition are a little easier to find than in previous editions. Resident Evil 4 puts you in 
 the shoes of Leon Kennedy. Sent to Eastern Europe to rescue the presidents daughter that has been 
 apprehended by an unknown cult. Of course when you get there everything turns to hell, villagers 
 throwing knives, villagers heads exploding revealing huge disgusting parasites, mutated dogs trying 
 to rip your throat out, you know just another day in Resident Evil. But RE4 unlike the other Resident 
 Evil games acually lets you control where your bullets hit with the innovative Wii remote you have 
 a crosshair that lets you get headshots 200 yards away, and just makes accuracy better than the 
 Gamecube and PS2 versions. RE4 also seems to have a couple of other minor tweaks such as the consistency 
 of enemies dropping ammo and money (pesetas) . Now this does make the game easier but you will still 
 be counting the bullets you have left in some of RE4's classic moments such as when you are trapped 
 inside a cabin with hundreds of villagers climbing through the windows or when you are fighting 
 some of RE4's bosses. In addition to ammo and money there are a few other tweaks the Wii edition 
 has, the villager's heads seem to pop more frequently which is nice early in the game but turns 
 into hell later.
  
  Now there are a few negatives, such as the fact the 97% of you have already played this game and 
 there really isnt any new content that is going to make it any different than the other versions 
 but for the $30 pricetag helps with that, and there are times when the controls such as the 180 
 turn around can be unresponsive.
  
  But for 30 dollars and for just being RE4 the Wii Edition is a nice game to have in your collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigfish2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 2, 2007 12:17 am PT
Review:  Resident evil 4 is one of those gams that just gets things right. The only real criticism of it 
 is the graphics and there not bad just not brilliant. It's a great shooter andbecause I got the 
 wii edition I got it at a knock down price.
  Te main story is that an evil religious cult led by the menacing Lord Saddler has kidnapped the 
 American presidents daughter. You play as Leon S Kennedy who is assigned to rescue her and bring 
 her home safely. The plot takes many twists and turns and never gets old.
  
  Gameplay- The game is split into 19 chapters and follows you Leon as you try and evade the grip 
 of the los illuminados and rescue Ashley Graham. The controls are simple enough with the nunchuck 
 moving your character and the wii remote used to aim your gun. B is used to get into a shooting 
 aim and a fires. If you run out of ammo which trust me you will you always have your trusty knife 
 to back you up. Graphics- The games graphics suffer from what a lot of games do muddy textures. 
 That's not to say they're poor but they could have been updated for the wii.
  
  Sound- The sound is pitch perfect. From the sound of your gun to the shouts of the ganados (possesed 
 villagers) . Even the evil voice acting is great.
  
  Value- It's good value fro money because not only is there the main story but afterwards there 
 are mercenary missions, assignment Ada and Seperate ways.
  
  Overall the game is great fun and a real example of what a third person shooter should be like. 
 The score is probably lower than what it would have been if the game was new. The wii controls 
 are implemented well and trust me you will die- a lot. On easy I died 55 times in total. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-Zero94
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  The Wii version of Resident Evil 4 is an amazing port of the original Resident Evil 4 and a must 
 for anyone with a Wii.
  
  The Wii version adds everything that the Gamecube RE was missing. It has better graphics (I could 
 barely see the enemies in the original) , better game play (in terms of aiming) , and has all the 
 exclusive features that all the other ports had (Separate Ways, Different Costumes, Ada's Report, 
 P. R. L. 412, Movie Browser, and it supports widesreen televisions) .
  
  Its just as fun as the first time I played Resident Evil 4, if not, more. For newcomers to the 
 Resident Evil franchise, the game doesn't follow the plot line as the other Resident Evils so you 
 won't get too confused. ;] The bosses are very challenging and who can pass up a chance to kill 
 swarms of zombies, especially ones with chainsaws?
  
  If your a fan of Resident Evil or played Resident Evil 4 or even if your just looking to buy something 
 with $30 then Resident Evil 4 Wii Version is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trinitylover
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 1, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  this is without a doubt the best resident evil. the wii version is the first one that i have play 
 of RE 4 only beucase im just now old enough to buy it. anyway i have played resident evil in the 
 past and even though it has been said many times this game is totally revolutionary. everything 
 about it is better, the controls are intuitive, the sound is perfect, the graphics are really good, 
 the story is better than in the past, the only thing that has been wrong with it is just that there 
 is no content different from the wii and ps2 i dont know personally but still they shouldve at 
 least given us a few more chapters in assignment ada. still an awesome game and worth every dollar 
 paid for it. that is if you dont mind a little gore here and there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 1, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 was the biggest success among all games of Capcoms famous thriller series. Perhaps 
 because of its outstanding graphics, that even one generation later still look as sharp and overwhelming 
 as they can be, which made every single dark corner, locked door and unexplored forsaken house 
 even more real and for a game like Resident Evil thats one characteristic that is definitely necessary.
 
  
  It seems very reasonable that such an amazing game united with the Wiis inventive controls would 
 compel developers to produce a remake that would keep all of the original games prowess. Resident 
 Evil 4 Wii edition is exactly that, a classic game compiled with new controls and a few extras 
 for those who had only played the Gamecube edition.
  
  The storyline is kind of different from all previous games, although you will still have to deal 
 with a virus that has been infecting people. Instead of exploring Raccoon City and its outskirts 
 while blasting some zombies Leon S. Kennedy will set to a remote Spanish village to rescue the 
 kidnapped daughter of the president of the United States, what seemed like a piece of cake because 
 what problems would you encounter in such a small village, turns out to be an ordeal in which you 
 will find infected villagers that are really willing to stop you.
  
  The game plays very different from its predecessors. In all past Resident Evil games you had to 
 get used to that unpredictable camera that could not be controlled by any means, that camera did 
 help when it comes to hiding enemies who are just around the corner waiting for you to pass or 
 inside a room that you cant see inside unless you actually enter it, but I must confess I was 
 a little bit annoyed by that since you have to change the way you control your character every 
 time the cameras shift.
  
  This time around you will have a third person vision exactly behind Leon and whoever you are playing 
 with. You can aim by simply pointing your Wiimote at the screen, which will make your accuracy 
 skyrocket because it is much smoother than trying to headshot an enemy with an analog stick. In 
 spite of that fact, the games difficulty is still enough to make you get killed around 70 times 
 during your first playthrough.
  
  Another fact that makes this games gameplay so awesome is that during part of the game you will 
 play as a pair, you will control Leon while Ashley the presidents daughter follows you, in most 
 games she would probably make you mad by standing in front of you when she is not supposed to, 
 get stuck in walls or run towards enemies just to get killed, but in this game it doesnt happen. 
 You can control what she will do just by pressing a button, you can tell her to either follow you 
 or to wait so that you dont get annoyed, just dont forget her.
  
  One would quickly assume that the game is not quite scary as usual due to the fact that the zombies 
 are nowhere to be found, but do not believe that. The Spaniards, despite not being as ugly as zombies, 
 will make you pretty tense this is all made possible because of the games atmospheric graphics 
 and sound that match so beautifully.
  
  The graphics are impressive, obviously they dont deserve to be called perfect since this is a 
 last gen game and the graphics have not been improved, but anyway they still work quite well, especially 
 because we are talking about a game produced for the Wii that is not such a powerful system. The 
 main characters are all amazing, they look very real, and so does the scenarios that wont actually 
 vary much as you go through the game. The same cant be said about the enemies, bosses aside, the 
 Spaniards arent quite polished models but that can be understood since too polished enemies at 
 the screen at the same time would cause massive frame rate problems. The cutscenes are also damn 
 cool. The music is also very nice, if you agree with me that in a game like this one the musics 
 goal is to make you feel creepy whenever you are walking in a dark hallway or exploring a dark 
 sewer then you will have no complaints here. It can be noticed when you are inside a house entering 
 different rooms and then all of a sudden a strange music starts playing, you sure get scared and 
 start exploring the place in a more careful way knowing that you are going to have some problems.
 
  
  The sound effects are very close to real, the gunshot sound, thunders, squeaking stairs, box breaking 
 and many other sounds. Voice acting is also done with perfection, the actors are good and their 
 voices match the movements of the characters mouths, the Spaniards scream whenever they see you, 
 they call for help and warm other villagers that there is a Forastero! in the village.
  
  Besides the regular adventure there are also a bundle of nice extras that are unlocked once you 
 beat the game for the first time, those extras were available on the PS2 version of the game but 
 were excluded from the GC version probably due to lack of space in the Mini-DVDs. So, for those 
 who have been following Nintendo and didnt play the PS2 version, such as me, will enjoy those 
 extras for a long while and thats just another reason to buy this game.
  
  The extras are Assignment Ada, Separate Ways and The Mercenaries. The first two are missions to 
 be completed as Ada it is interesting to play both since they will fill some voids that were left 
 in the regular adventures story. While the latter is a mini-game where you can select from 5 different 
 characters, 4 of them are unlockacle, in this mini you will find yourself in a scenario where you 
 have got to kill as many enemies as you can in a certain amount of time.
  
  Besides that you can also replay the whole adventure in a more challenging difficulty, you can 
 also buy new guns from the merchants. All that considered Resident Evil 4 Wii Edition is a game 
 with loads of replay value, perhaps one of the most replayable games ever.
  
  Resident Evil 4 Wii Edition is a definite must buy for Wii owners that like this genre. It has 
 amazing graphics, great gameplay and tons of extras. It is a good game for either people who have 
 already tried one of the last gen versions and are allured by the Wiis controls being used in 
 a shooter or people who have never played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nzilla
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 is a flat out awesome game. It was beautiful and exciting on the Gamecube, and 
 the port to the Wii is even better.
  
  To start off with, the storyline is a masterpiece. Sure, kidnapping the president's daughter may 
 seem a little over-done, but hey, it works for the game. The game twists and turns and the dark 
 storyline really puts you in the character. It also gives you motivation to shoot these wacknuts 
 in the face. Repeatedly.
  
  Speaking of shooting people in the face, the aiming system has taken a great overhaul on the Wii. 
 Back on the Gamecube the aiming felt a little slow which led to some very frantic moments. Also 
 on the gamecube the guns all had a little built in wiggle to make it feel like you were really 
 aiming. That wiggle has been eliminated, because now you REALLY ARE AIMING. A targeting circle 
 has been added greatly assisting in accuracy. Since you can move your hand much faster, the speed 
 at which you can target and pop off shots has also increased, making shooting much more fluid and 
 natural. Much of the other controls remain basically the same with the addition of a quick knife 
 feature. Wiggling the remote activates the auto-knife feature and is rather nice if you want to 
 slice some creepy bad guy up fast.
  
  Graphics in this game are mind-blowing. Rain coming down, the flow of water, the spray of blood 
 (as realistic or unrealistic as it is) . The visuals are fantastic. You really do feel like you're 
 in the ass end of Spain fighting wacked out cultist.
  
  Sound in the game is equally impressive, as the chanting or conversation of your enemy can tip 
 you off to where they are coming from. When they spot you, they'll usually yell out to their buddies. 
 I assume if you actually do speak Spanish you'll have an edge up in this game because you'll know 
 what the hell they say. For the rest of us, shouting usually means they've spotted your ass and 
 you better start blowin heads off. In the Wii version the small speaker in the Wiimote is an added 
 bonus. You can hear the swish of a knife or a bullet shooting just past your head. It really puts 
 you in the middle of the action.
  
  The rest of the game is just as amazing as it has always been. Creepy bad guys, heart wrenching 
 boss fights. Popping the heads off of wave after wave of cult members. Ahhhh, good times. There 
 have been more extras added and more weapons. I assume these come from the PS2 version of the game. 
 I haven't played that version so I can't say for sure, but they are nice additions to a great game.
 
  
  If you haven't played this game yet you should buy this immediately. If you have played, you should 
 still buy this version. You'll be totally blown away by the improvements to aiming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acebrewer1332
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 31, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  I was never really a big fan of the Resident Evil series and have never played a game, but i desided 
 to get this game because all of the good reviews i have been reading on it. I want to play a shooting 
 game on the wii and with only a 30 dollar price tag i thought id try it out.
  
  This play is great. It's fun, fast, exciting, and the music can scary the crap out of you even 
 when there are no enemies around. I say the only negative this about this is game are that you 
 can't move left and right. You have to turn when move forward. This can get frustrating when traped 
 in a corner or something. other than that the gameplay is great. The funniest part of this game 
 is of course shooting people's heads off and blast a big group with a shotgun.
  
  So if your looking for a good game to play or a little low on money you should try this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psppro2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 31, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  This is the only remake game on the Wii that actually did awesome on the ratings. Its fun even 
 if you already played it on a gamecube or PS2 (I havn't so lucky for me) . Anyway here it is....
 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay was excellent. The controls were very comfortable. Though I wish you could 
 press A to aim and B to fire it would make the controls more natural. A thing I liked a lot though 
 was how interactive it was, what you could do if say a bunch of zombies were walking towards you 
 and a gas tank was next to them. Shoot it and there gone. Or knock down a ladder to give you some 
 time. But I give it a 9.0 out of 10.
  
  Graphics: I was surprised how good these Wii graphics were. Much better than any other game on 
 the system thats for sure. They were under a 360/PS3 but better than itself. So it worked very 
 well for the Wii. I give it 10 out of 10.
  
  Sound: The sound on it was very well done. The voice overs on the game were excellent. Though the 
 sound effects on the zombies were kind of repetitive. Hearing them say the same jumbled bunch of 
 spainish words over and over got annoying so i would shoot them in the head 'till they shut up. 
 But still I'd give it 9.0 out of 10.
  
  Value: The value of this game to me is probably more than 30 bucks. But thank God I got it for 
 a steal. Every other remade game such as Prince of Persia Rival Swords and Splinter cell double 
 agent all priced at 50 bucks. So you should really go and get this game over the others. Even after 
 you beat the game its still fun to beat it again or play mercenaries mode. So I give it 10 out 
 of 10.
  
  Tilt: My experience playing the game so far is awesome. I love blowing the heads off of zombies. 
 Though I do think it was pretty hard most parts but still it was extremely fun. I'll definitely 
 play it again.
  
  overall: This game gets a 9.3 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariokartguy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 31, 2007 1:14 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 Wii Edition is a remake of a gamecube game, which has been remade into a PC (god 
 forbid) and a ps2 version, and it is technically just the ps2 version with motion controls (also 
 Ada has a knife) . But don't get me wrong, this game is still friggen amazing. The plot of the game 
 is a generic go find the presidents daughter! plot, but it quickly cahnges from kicking the crap 
 out of crazy foreigners, to blowing satanic cult members heads off. The story and character development 
 is great, and the graphics have been upgraded from the GC version a little.
  
  Now on to the sound! The sounds really put you into the game. The sound is what really scared most 
 players (although it's not nearly as scary as the previous resident evil games) . The sound is great 
 period. Now for the voice acting. I'm not going to lie, the voice acting is pretty cheap in some 
 parts, but without that it wouldn't feel like a resident evil game to me.
  
  Something they've changed from the previous titles is how much space they give you to move around. 
 In the first Resident Evil, the majority of the game was in a bunch of cramped hallways, but now 
 you have wide open spaces, a great place to use the newly added RIFLE. Yes, you get to snipe all 
 kinds of crazy freaks! oh, the satifaction!
  
  So basically this is just the good old resident evil 4 from before, but with motion controls. The 
 new aiming kind of dumbs down the difficulty. But it's still a great game, and I highly suggest 
 buying it, especially because a new one only costs you $30! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freedom_Link
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 30, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Brilliant! I love it! But im not the type of one sided person to say that...
  
  Reasons I found the game to easy -
  Wii's Aiming system made it to easy to kill enemys.
  The 
 number of enemys is limited.
  Hard Mode didn't change much for me.
  Way to little boss's
  WAY TO MANY SAVE POINTS!
  
  Yet I found the game to be a great experance because -
  The Fear 
 of the Chainsaw rattling.
  4 seperate games with it.
  The Cutscenes.
  The really kick ass merchants!.
  And the pure fun of blowing off someones head.
  Running through 
 El Giantes legs!.
  
  Thanks for reading my review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genome4824
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 30, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  Not only was this the first time I played RE4 (in any edition) but this is the first Resident Evil 
 game I have really played. I've watched my friends play and I always thought it was more fun to 
 watch. I have trouble playing games like RE on a standard controller. I really hated the old controls 
 and after playing with the wii-mote there's no way I'm ever going to use a normal controller when 
 I play an RE game.
  
  I'm not going to write a full review since there are so many. I thought I'd just give my input 
 on how the controls are for someone who is new to playing the series.
  
  The best part is the price. I'm glad I waited to play the game in it's best form. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NICK_BOB
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 30, 2007 6:08 am PT
Review:  The minute i first started playing Resident Evil 4 for the wii, i was excited and thought that 
 this was a great idea. About an hour or so in, flailing and aiming the remote just feels boring. 
 Like with most wii titles there isn't much more to the game than shaking the remote and pointing 
 it at the screen which is certainly fun for some time but it might not hold up for some of you. 
 If you're a really big fan of Resident Evil 4 or you have never played the game you should definitely 
 purchase this game, but for anyone else you might want to avoid it for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefearishere07
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 30, 2007 5:53 am PT
Review:  the best ever resident evil game has just hit the wii to make the best ever game so far for the 
 wii. the grafics are better so are the sound, the gameplay and the abilaty to pick it up and play. 
 i rate it 9 out of ten and i recomend it for everyone bueven more for the people how have never 
 played it befor. its all its craced upto be and more so i give it 2 thumbs up and it is defanatley 
 worth buying. please tell me what you think of the game ether though tis website or on msn.
  
  
  yours faithfully
  thefearisere07 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmsbond35
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 29, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  After all we've seen with the wii so far, we need something new.
  
  There hasn't really been any good shooters for the wii lately, and we need one bad. This is just 
 the answer. We've all seen re4 many times, as it's been ported to 3 different systems now, not 
 including GC, the original version. This adds a lot to the game. Although there isn't any wii specific 
 content (which would have been nice) , there is much to say about the aiming system. It's much much 
 better, it's even worth playing again for those of you who have already played it on another system. 
 After beating the game once, you'll find you'll want everything in the game, as there are immediately 
 2 weapons to buy after you beat the game once. Then, you can unlock 3 more weapons by beating the 
 game's various minigames. Alll in all, there is tons to do in this game. You can try to rack up 
 huge scores in Mercs, or even just have fun getting headshots in Mercs. You can try Pro mode, or 
 even do a knife/pistol runthrough. With nothing great coming to the wii until late this year and 
 early next, this is the once game to keep you busy and at $30.00, you can definitely afford this 
 instead of other $50.00 titles like Red Steel and other crappy games right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_pulserfan
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 29, 2007 12:19 am PT
Review:  (Just a warning, there are some BIG spoilers here)
  
  For a game that came out years ago, it still holds up. I was expecting the hype I heard around 
 it to be a bit worn out if it didn't deliver what I wanted. Needless to say, I should make judgments 
 about a game I've never played before.
  
  The graphics (cause everyone wants to know this first) are great and it's benefiting from the improved 
 hardware and the AA (Anti-Aliasing) , lights and shadows surpass what was shown on the gamecube/ps2 
 releases, and in 480p widescreen it's a good looking game.
  
  The controls are where the game really shines, the wii-mote controls are great and make the game 
 so much more satisfy when you cut a zombies throat with your knife.
  
  Aiming is what you will expect you hold down a button (classic RE style) , and with the over the 
 shoulder camera you move the reticle around to shoot, a head shot has never felt so good.
  
  There are random points where you find yourself climbing, turning/pulling levers, shaking a 
 zombie loose, and making mad sprints those work like a dream albeit climbing could have had a better 
 control scheme than what it was given.
  
  Yep it's here, a segment called Separate Ways , another called Assignment Ada , and the last one 
 Mercenaries.
  
  Separate Ways is a quick scenario of Ada Wong gathering samples.
  
  And Assignment Ada is like a entirely different single player experience, it fills in some plot 
 holes from the story line and a few of those what the hell just happened moments make sense. It 
 last quite a while.
  
  And the other one, Mercenaries is a decent one thought not as engrossing as the other two, after 
 all it's a mere shooting gallery of sorts. Pick a character, enclosed area, gun and kill as much 
 as you can within the allowed time limit.
  
  I've never experienced RE4, but what I can tell you is that this shouldn't be played if you have 
 already beat it on ps2/NGC cause this is nothing but a (slightly) graphically enhanced port with 
 Wii controls.
  
  But if you haven't (like me) experienced this masterpiece, oh please by all means pick it up, it 
 makes a great first impression and never lets it down and you will be satisfied with this purchase. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitman_16
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 28, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  When this game first came out for the Gamecube, I bought a used one just for this game. It was 
 the only game in my collection. About a month ago, I bought a Wii not realizing that Resident Evil 
 4 was made for the Wii. I haven't been able to put this game down!
  
  First, lets talk about gameplay. WOW! I love how the controls handle on this game (although I've 
 read a lot of people can't stand the controls) . Having to actually aim at the gandos makes it even 
 more of a challenge. A few things could be tweaked on it though but overall the controls are great. 
 I remember the Gamecube version and it wasn't nearly as hard as the Wii version is. When I first 
 started, I soon found myself with little ammo against Dr. Salvador. It just adds to the thrill 
 of this game.
  
  The graphics are great as well. A lot better than the Gamecube and Playstation 2 graphics.
  
 
  The sound is still the same however...... but thats a good thing! It still scares the hell out 
 of me every time I hear a chainsaw, or that spooky music come on.
  
  For a game this good and to be 30 bucks! This is a great buy! For anyone who loved the Gamecube 
 or Playstation 2 version, and you have a Wii, this game is a must have in your collection. Grade: 
 A 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Animal_Cracker
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 28, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  Ever since the first RE, I have loathed the series, and being a immense fan of the zombie genre, 
 that's saying a lot. The problem was the horrible engine which had bad controls and impossible 
 aiming. But now, that has all changed with the new engine when it first came out on GC. Remaking 
 it on the Wii, they have improved it even more using the Wii controller. If you're like me and 
 refused to play the RE series, try this one. You don't need to know the story so far because they 
 brief you with it on the beginning of the game and if you need more info, you don't need to play 
 the previous games, there are hundreds of websites with the timelines and novels based on the games. 
 Happy hunting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: appleater
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 for the Wii is a masterpiece, something that will make you proud to be a gamer. 
 It's one of the most important games I've ever played.
  
  The Wii-mote works wonderfully.
  
  The graphics are extraordinary, even with the Wii's composite 
 cable. The sound and acting is great. Krauser is an awesome character.
  
  The story is scary and intelligent. There is no weak spot; it's a long, very replayable game, yet 
 there's just absolutely nothing to criticize. Rather, it's my job to try to understand the scary 
 talent in Japan that created this game. They are far ahead of almost everyone else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamestorm232
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  You haven't played resident evil 4 until you've played it on the WII. This game is great from start 
 to finish. You will love every aspect of it. Best one so far by a long shot. And it is also cheap. 
 It will only run you thirty dollars since it's been out for two years on the playstation two. It's 
 probably the best game right now for the wii that I got and I have zelda super paper mario madden 
 07 NFL trauma center second opinion. Which are great games by themselves so you no it's a good 
 game if it's better then them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laufu
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 27, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Now granted, I haven't played Gears of War since I don' t have a 360, but this is the most fun 
 I've ever had on a console game. I never owned a GC or PS2, so this was my first opportunity to 
 play RE4 and I'm glad. I can't imagine playing this with just the analog sticks and buttons. The 
 controls for the Wii do nothing but enhance this game. Combine that with the fact that this is 
 the most feature rich version of an already game-of-the-year game, and you've got a must-own title 
 for the Wii. ESPECIALLY for the price! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazybankai9
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 26, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  AWSOME GAME I LIKE IT A LOT ITS REAL FUN AND YOU KILL STUFF AND ITS ALL BLODY AND THE ZOMBIES ARE 
 LIKE BAWAH AND THERE IS SO MUCH GORE AND AND ITS COOL. Now lets get real the game is not as fun 
 as the Gamecube version though but its still fun. It's fun killing zombies!!!!!!!!!!! The problem 
 about the game is thats it is easier than the other versions. this is crazy bankai 9 singing out 
 from gamestop reviews hope youu like the review by the way if you have a wii but have the ps2 version 
 of resident evil 4 still get the wii version but dont if you have the Gamecube version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eatinbrains
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 26, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  This game is the first shooter to actually have a godd feel of the wiimote. i havent had any problems 
 with it at all. the graphics are only average. nothing special to look at. but he game its self 
 makes up for what it lacks visually. it has a great storyline that i actuall want to see how it 
 ends instead of just going through the motions to get to the end. the game has cool features like 
 being able to control certain aspects during the cinematics, like hitting a and b to duck or get 
 out of the way of something. in conclusion this game would have been great even if it cost the 
 full 50 dollars. (assuming that you havent played the last generation console version of the same 
 exact game) but for only 30 dollars you deffinatly cant beat it. survey says... buy this game. 
 what else are you going to get for the wii ... pokeman or some other lame kiddy title! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ojharvey
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 26, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  Never played the previous versions of this on the other consoles, but was impressed with the Wii 
 version. Thought it played well, the length was good, and the $30 price tag is hard to beat. The 
 extra content was interesting but not to die for. Camera issues popped up here and there and would 
 have been nice to rotate the camera without pulling your weapon. Wii controls responsive and clever 
 for the most part. Difficulty was just right to almost too easy overall with a few spots earning 
 a difficult ranking. I would recommend picking this up especially if you're waiting for your next 
 game and you have some downtime. Overall great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamesterxx
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 is a great way to use your Wii. This game uses the Wii remote to it full extent, 
 especially with the Wii blaster that came out on July 13th. The Wii is slowly but surly making 
 its way to the top. The side missions that are unlocked when the game is beat are great. There 
 are four of them. If you have no games for this system or need a nice mood changer this is a game 
 to pick up. The boss mission is very entertaining, along with the great gun upgrades and the great 
 enemies. This is a must have for any RE fan or the genre 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsduncan7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 25, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  I 've played completely through the Gamecube version and some of the PS2 version. I was really 
 looking forward to playing the WII version of this game. I totally believe that the GC and PS2 
 versions of this game are some of the greatest games ever made for a console. So, enter the WII-mote. 
 The motion sensitive controls feel right. I'm sorry, but I am disappointed in the aiming/directional 
 controls. Having to point with the WII-mote and use the analog stick together feels really tacked 
 on to me, especially when trying to aim at targets off screen. The aiming doesn't have a very fluid 
 feel to it. Also, the GC and PS2 versions of the targeting system looked great on the screen, with 
 the end of the targeting laser glowing like a small red dot when aimed on something you could shoot. 
 This looked real to me and added to the feel and look of the game. But for some reason, the WII 
 version gets a ridiculously large half dollar sized targeting reticule on the screen, which doesn't 
 look real and actually covers and hides what you are shooting at. Overall, if you've never played 
 RE4 and have a WII, you simply must buy and play this game. If you are a fan, still give it a try. 
 I personally have mixed reactions to the WII control. (BTY: The WII Metroid game seems to have 
 a more intuitive aiming/directional control scheme.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mullga
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 31, 2007 1:35 am PT
Review:  Is there a difference between Resident Evil 4 for the Game Cube and Resident Evil 4 for the Wii? 
 Is it worth it to shell out $30 for a game that you might have already played? Well you have no 
 reason to worry because i've already done it, so now you can take an objective look and decide 
 for yourself whether or not to do the same. I will go ahead and tell you up front that the games 
 themselves are almost exactly the same. There are no hidden passage ways or secret prizes that 
 are waiting to be discovered by the attentive player. There are no extra cut scenes to be found 
 that reveal more of the story or add a funny anecdote. After you beat the game, you will be able 
 to purchase all the same guns and wear all the same costumes with the addition of those that were 
 in the PS2 version. Proffesional mode, Assignment Ada, Separate Ways, the Mercenary missions, and 
 the ability to keep your old upgraded weapons are also all available upon beating the game. Essentially, 
 you are paying $30 to be able to play RE 4 with the Wiimote. But the Wii version of RE 4 is not 
 a disappointment. The game is just as compelling as its Game Cube counterpart if not more so thanks 
 to the Wiimote. The aiming is spot on and wins out over the Game cube version when comparing accuracy. 
 It also makes the game feel like an arcade shooter on steroids when hordes of enemies are attacking 
 from every side and you have to beat them back using your trusty shotgun. Attacking with the knife 
 is now much easier due to the fact that all it takes for a speedy slash is a wave of the Wiimote. 
 Reloading is just as easy and intuitive. Although almost all of the actions in RE 4 are Wiimote 
 sensitive, the function is not overdone and does not become annoying or overused. The graphics 
 in the Wii version beat out the Game Cube by only a slight margin so the allure of stunning new 
 graphics should not be a deciding factor in whether or not to purchase this game. What should be 
 considered is whether or not you want to have a second copy of a great game sitting around waiting 
 to be played. If you only own the Game Cube version and were already going to buy the PS2 version 
 for the extended missions and the couple extra weapons, then go ahead and pick this one up. It 
 is just as fun as the first with the only downside being that it is exactly the same as the first. 
 The only people I would recommend this game to unconditionally are the people who have $30 bucks 
 that they want to blow or those who haven't already bought RE 4. And if you don't own any version 
 of RE 4 then you live under a rock and have no connection with the outside world. To recap, the 
 graphics are very good but still don't compare with those of the PS3 or 360. The gameplay is immersive 
 but don't look for any new content as you go through. The controls are intuitive and are fairly 
 easy to learn and actually add to the experiance bringing you deeper into the game. The sound, 
 just like in the last game, in absolutly amazing. The sound of this game is about 85 percent of 
 the total experiance and definitely makes the game so memorable. If you haven't already bought 
 RE 4 yet then the deal is great. Thirty bucks for a game this good is a deal. But it's not worth 
 it if you already own one of the older versions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOLhahaDEAD
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  If youre reading this right now, youve either played some iteration of Resident Evil 4, and maybe 
 beaten between 1 and 100 times, or youve never played the game. Either way, this version of the 
 game is a must buy for everyone.
  
  Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition is a remake of the GameCube and PS2 versions. It takes the best of 
 both versions and adds a new control scheme into the mix. You could say that this is the Collectors 
 Edition, if youd like.
  
  The main highlight of this game is the new controls. It plays almost exactly the same as the previous 
 versions, but instead of having to use the analog stick to aim your weapon, you get a reticule 
 on screen thats controlled by the Wii remote. When youre running around the reticule will appear 
 gray, but once you go into the aiming mode, by holding the B trigger, itll turn green. When you 
 pass over an object you can shoot, an enemy or maybe a giant padlock on a door, itll turn red 
 meaning something will happen if you shoot it. This control style works well, and is very intuitive, 
 but it makes the game a bit easier than the older versions. There are also new action commands 
 that take place during the cut scenes that might involve swinging the Wii remote or simply pressing 
 A and B together. You can also control the game with the GameCube controller, and the Classic controller.
 
  
  As I stated earlier, this version takes the best from both the GameCube and PS2 versions of the 
 games, and compiles them together into one nice little package. You get the graphics engine from 
 the GameCube version, which had better lighting and didnt have pre-rendered cut scenes, and you 
 get all the bonus content from the PS2 version, like the Separate Ways mission with Ada Wong. Altogether, 
 it makes this the ultimate version of the game.
  
  The graphics are still quite good, even after 2 years, but they do start to show their age. Everything 
 in the game is beautifully detailed and the lighting is magnificent. The soundtrack is wonderful, 
 and sets the mood perfectly. It can be atmospheric or intense, and always gives you the vibe its 
 sending off. There are still some pesky camera angles that make it feel awkward sometimes, which 
 is something Capcom should have tried to fix, at least a little bit. The story in the game is also 
 very deep and the characters are very believable. Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition is the same Resident 
 Evil 4 youve played before, but the new controls make it feel like a fresh experience. Plus, the 
 30 dollar price makes this game warrant a purchase from any Wii owner or Resident Evil fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justiceboy13
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 24, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  well, well, well. Resident Evil 4.
  
  I missed it the first time around on GC/PS2, so I put down $30, on this game. $30 is a very, very, 
 good price for a game as good as this. In fact, if you have a Wii, there is nothing that should 
 stop you from playing this. It's that good.
  
  First of all, the gameplay is amazing. The controlls are extremely intuitive and fluent. Slicing 
 with your knife is as easy as making a cutting motion with the remote. Aiming is very easy too. 
 All in all, the controlls are perfect. The gameplay it's self is very entertaining, and at times 
 intense, chaotic, and horrifying. This game is extremely violent and graphic, be warned. I typically 
 don't like survival horror games for this reason. But RE4 has stunning graphics and amazing gameplay 
 to go along with the guts and gore. There are tons of extras and things to play around with after 
 you've beaten the main storyline, and there are plenty of incentives experience it's killer story 
 mode all over again.
  
  This game is incredibly atomospheric. The visuals still look incredible, even though it's a port 
 of a 2 year old gamecube game. The suspenseful feel is bolstered by the game's minimalist score, 
 soundtrack, and sound effects. There were parts in this game where I was literally, terrified for 
 my life. It's that intense, and the graphics and sound play a big role in this. All the textures 
 look pretty good from far away, but up close they show some signs of age. The water here is top-notch, 
 the best water I've seen besides Twilight Princess.
  
  The value here is undeniable. A 30 hour game, with tons of extras to keep you entertained. I only 
 wish there was some type of multiplayer.
  
  Overall, this is a very, very, reccomendable game. If you own a Wii, you should play it, period. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlbertoML
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 24, 2007 9:26 pm PT
Review:  With so many versions of RE4 now out there, you'll probably doubt which one to get: GameCube, PS2, 
 PC or Wii, but rest assured, if you choose the Wii version you're getting the best one.
  
  The game is still the same Resident Evil 4 you played on any other consoles (if you have played 
 it) , and you won't see anything new (but a teaser to the Umbrella Chronicles game) , but the new 
 experience comes with the Wii Remote/Nunchuck controls.
  
  RE4 follows the story of Leon S. Kennedy, survivor of the destruction of Raccoon City, now as a 
 government agent, with the mission to rescue the President's kidnapped daughter; obviously, as 
 your game progresses, it'll get linked to a RE-like storyline and scenarios, which take place in 
 Europe. There you'll have to defeat minions of not-zombies (called Ganados) until you're able to 
 complete your mission. The game is filled with action and suspenseful moments that'll keep you 
 on the edge, which is great.
  
  The game is played more or less in the same fashion as previous versions, with the added benefit 
 of the new controls, and the actions feel very natural to perform. For example, if a Ganado grabs 
 you, you must waggle the Wiimote to break free, or you must slash with the Wiimote to slash with 
 your knife. And the most important thing with the Wiimote is aiming, as now you aim with a lot 
 of precision, you'll have a targeting reticule instead of a laser and you'll see where your shots 
 will land, and it's very, very precise, you'll achieve a level of precision not previously possible 
 with a gamepad. But in the rare case you don't like the controls, you can always plug the Classic 
 Controller or a GameCube Controller for a more old-school feel. It'll take a while to master the 
 motion controls but once you dominate them, you won't ever go back to the controller; in fact, 
 I was testing the GC controller and I was waggling it trying to break free, hehe.
  
  The presentation is as good as it was. Everything you had in previous games is still here, unmodified, 
 but with a Wii touch , all extras and minigames, costumes and weapons. So, Nintendo owners who 
 were sad because they couldn't play the Ada missions (Separate Ways) , don't despair because here 
 they are, but now with improved graphics and controls. If you never played the game before, you'll 
 have lots of extras to unlock, but if you played it before, the new motion controls will make you 
 go back, although not for that long...
  
  Graphically, it looks just as the GameCube version, and it was the best of the best on that console 
 and still holds on very well, and to date it's the best-looking Wii game (although I don't know 
 if that's a good thing or sad...) . Running on Wii it just looks a little sharper, but you'll notice 
 that where the GC had little slowdown, here it's all consistently fluid. The cinemas run with the 
 in-game assets, unlike the PS2 where they were recorded from the GC build and then compressed to 
 video files, so they look very sharp and blend better with the game. Even the Separate Ways missions 
 got a little of a face lift to look as good as the GC assets, although some parts don't look as 
 good. The game even features 480p and Widescreen (like the PS2) . Too bad Separate Ways still has 
 prerecorded videos, but they still look good.
  
  The audio is as impressive as it was before, with very realistic sound effects and an omminous 
 score. You should definitely invest on a Dolby Pro Logic II receiver, as the game benefits from 
 it greatly, and channel separation is excelent. There was nothing lost in console translation.
 
  
  So, the final question is, should I get RE4 if I have a Wii? The question is, why shouldn't I? 
 After all, this was the best game of the last console generation, and it's the best-looking game 
 on Wii, it features hours and hours of extras that will hook you up, and did I mention it's the 
 cheapest game out there? It's a steal, everyone says it, go buy it, now! Do you have it for another 
 console? That's a lame excuse, go buy it anyway, you know you'll play it lots more!!
  
  As said before 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 24, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 will go down as one of my favorite games of all time. So when i received my Wii 
 and saw that RE4 was available I just knew I had to trr it out.
  
  The control scheme works wonderfully well but took some getting use to at first. One of the problems 
 was that I was still use to the typical controlling movement with my left thumb and being left 
 handed ment I had to use my right to point and shoot. After completing the church mission I was 
 adequately comfortable with the controls.
  
  I also found it easier to play the game since I was able to aim at the screen to shoot rather than 
 try and aim with a controller and shoot. In fact it was too easy in some levels. In the PS2 version 
 it took a lot of concentration to take down Salazar with aiming and avoiding tentacles. But since 
 I was able to just aim at the screen I took him down with my first volley of magnum bullets.
  
  Shooting with the scope is still controlled by the thumb stick for the sniper rifle and grenade 
 launcher. But I think I'm not going to bother with the scope for my grenade launcher next time 
 because it is so much easier to just aim and shoot.
  
  The graphics are pretty much the same from the PS2 version (which is not a put down since it still 
 looks great for being 2 years old) . In fact the game is the same in every way as the ps2 version 
 from what I can remember. So while it was fun to play, the only real reason to play it on the Wii 
 was really for the new control scheme.
  
  Since I'm starting my 2nd play through I have to say that the game is well worth the price, but 
 I don't think that everyone that played it on the PS2 or GC will want to come back and play again 
 simply for the new controller. Im glad I did though. :)
  
  Now even though I am scoring this lower than my PS2 rating, I still consider this the best in the 
 series because of the great control scheme. So if anyone with a PS2 and Wii was wondering which 
 version of the game to get, i would definitely say the Wii version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson-_-Tears
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 23, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  First off lets start with the Graphics. There are pretty good for being a ported game, and its 
 in true 16:9 format not in the faked ratio as in the previous versions, and so Im not going to 
 go into further details on this section
  
  As for the story goes for anyone who isnt that familiar with this game or any of the previous 
 game (s) . The story of the game starts off with Leon S. Kennedy. A survivor from the tragic zombie 
 outbreak that had accrued in Raccoon City in 1998. Now he is on a mission to find, and rescue the 
 Presidents daughter from a kidnapping that has taken place, and as he struggles along the way 
 to find her leads in a European village of crazed Spanish peasants. Now Osmund Saddler, a leader 
 of the village's religious cult, Los Illuminades. He has brought an infection to all of his followers 
 with the Las Plagas. It is a parasite that will control anyone who is too weak to control it him 
 or herself.
  
  The control layout for the Wii version is rather nice, you use the B to aim and the A button to 
 fire. You use the Z down on the nunchuck to do a turnaround, and C &amp; Z to zoom in and out with 
 the rifle or rocket scopes, and you can either swing the Wii remote to slash with the knife, and 
 to automatically open crates, or you can either hold down C &amp; press the A buttons to open crates, 
 or you can hold down C and move the knife around on what you want to slash, and to move the camera 
 angles you just use the d-pad on the remote.
  
  The only thing that kind of bugged me at first is the Wii remote cross hair when its not in use. 
 I would have like it if the cross hair is off the screen at all times, and the only time it will 
 show up is when you hold down the B button to fire. Its not that bad youll get use to it, I just 
 distracted myself at times wiggling it around the screen.
  
  This is the best version out of all the previously released ones. If you havent played Resident 
 Evil 4, or your just looking into picking up the Wii version for the extra content and Wii functionality. 
 Then defiantly its a must buy, and at a budget price of 30$ is a pretty good deal for such a great 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miracledirt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 23, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Over the years, I've seen various Resident Evil games come and go across the broad spectrum of 
 game consoles, including the Dreamcast, Gamecube, Playstation, and now RE makes its debut on the 
 Wii. I have always been skeptical of the Resident Evil games, primarily because I'm not really 
 into games of the darker nature (such as Silent Hill) . As a Nintendo Power subscriber and an avid 
 Gamespot user, I have seen countless reviews on Resident Evil and all of them rate the game very 
 high. After seeing the 9.1 rating that RE4 had on Gamespot, I decided to give the game a try. The 
 $29.99 purchase price also made it that much easier to just buy the game, since I wouldn't be out 
 fifty bucks if I didn't like it.
  
  Within the first half hour of playing the game, I was already on the edge of my seat, and my nerves 
 were on edge as well. There's just something about seeing a horde of Zombies coming at you wielding 
 knives, pitchforks, and even chainsaws that makes you a little jumpy. The basic storyline is that 
 the President's daughter has been kidnapped, and you are tasked with travelling to a remote location 
 in Europe to track her down and rescue her. Along your journey you will battle countless creepy 
 creatures (some of which made my skin crawl and made me want to dispose of them quickly so I could 
 get the hell out of there) . I was hooked on the story within the first hour, but it is the gameplay 
 on the Wii that makes this an INCREDIBLE game.
  
  As a major fan of all the James Bond and Splinter Cell games that made their way onto the Gamecube, 
 I was anxious to see how the Wii would handle a First Person or Third Person shooter. I was disappointed 
 in the way Red Steel turned out, but I was blown away with Resident Evil 4. The Wii Remote is used 
 as your gun sight, and your aim is as accurate as you are able to point. If you have a steady aim, 
 it is possible to snipe zombies with a headshot using a handgun from fifty yards away. The aim 
 is THAT ACCURATE.
  
  One of my favorite features of the game is the ability to upgrade your weapons at one of the many 
 merchant locations throughout the game. The upgrade system reminds me of an RPG game where you 
 are constantly finding stronger, better weapons to help you even the odds. In RE4, the upgrades 
 can be costly, but the payoff is well worth it. I found myself constantly checking the map for 
 the next merchant location so I could increase the firepower in my arsenal and tip the odds in 
 my favor.
  
  Overall, I must say that this was definitely a great introduction into the Resident Evil catalogue 
 of games. I was pleased with the storyline, but I was truly impressed at how easy the Wii Remote 
 handled this game. There are many bonus features that can be unlocked upon your first completion 
 of the game, and then some of those extra features will unlock special weapons which become available 
 for a second playthrough of the main game. I am currently in the process of a second playthrough 
 so I can obtain some of the premiere weapons in the game and completely obliterate anything in 
 my path. Again, this was my first time playing anything in the Resident Evil series, and if the 
 gameplay and storyline for future Wii Resident Evil games come anywhere close to this one, I will 
 be glad to add them to my collection. If you are a Third Person Shooter game fan, you will definitely 
 love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  i've been a resident evil fan since day 1.... bought a Playstation just for the original Resident 
 Evil (im a horror movie fanatic) and I've carried through the series step by step. I must admit, 
 I wasn't the most positive when I brought home Resident Evil 4 on Gamecube on realized the series 
 had changed drastically... but it was still thoroughly enjoyable experience. I recently sold my 
 Gamecube version and picked up the Wii version, as i've heard its MUCH better... The controls do 
 add a lot to the games atmosphere and bring the game much more to life, it's no doubt... however, 
 the visuals are extremely dated which holds the title back from being as impressive as when it 
 first released. Still, it's an awesome remake/port that I would recommend to anyone.
  .
  Pros
  + Controls work very well
  + Still an awesome experience/Story
  + engaging enemies, 
 awesome AI
  + perfect length plus tons of goodies
  .
  Cons
  - Visuals look bland and dated
  - Controls take a lot of getting used to... can cause bad situations 
 at times 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HVPinc
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game I went in with high hopes. I've been in search of a wii shooter and while 
 this game did not satisfy me completly in that regard it was an unexpected joy as a deep game. 
 The game was good enough to hold me over for the weeks in which my Xbox 360 was being repaired.
 
  
  Graphics: Currently the best the Wii has to offer. Its as close to a next gen looking game as is 
 probably possible on the wii. It does lack, however, the next gen shine and has already been seen 
 on previous consoles.
  
  Gamesplay: The gameplay is a third person shooter. What makes this game lack as a TPS but excel 
 in its mood is the inability to walk and shoot at the same time. While being chased by enemies 
 you must stop, turn around and press B to go into aim mood . From their you use the the wii-mote 
 to move the aiming reticle around and the nunchuck analouge stick to move the camera. The game 
 is not difficult as some would tell you. The only difficulty you may encounter is when you are 
 running and holding the analouge stick forward and you change to aim mood you'll probably forget 
 to let go of the analoug stick and move the camera straight up. This doesn't sound to bad but in 
 a close quarters fight this costs important seconds.
  
  Sound: The sound is standard faire. The guns sound good and lound and the Ganado's growl creepily 
 around the corner creating an intense atmosphere. This become especially apparent when you face 
 some of the more difficult enemies towards the end of the game.
  
  I personlly Have not played the the original Re4's so my judgment is clear and precise. This game 
 is absolutely great and creates an impressive atmosphere without becomeing to frightening. A must 
 have for wii owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ireaveiw
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 27, 2007 7:16 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 debuted on the GameCube in 2005 with one of the most genious control schemes I 
 have ever been given the chance to play. Eventually it was ported over to the PlayStation 2, with 
 toned down graphics and a bit clunkier controls. But other then that it kept the heart of the original 
 game which dared to change the series from true survival horror titles, to full fledged action 
 that was thankfully able to tie in some of the creepiness the series is known for. The PS2 version 
 brought in some new stuff too, such as new weapons and new extras. Now ported to the Wii, we get 
 the PlayStation 2's bonus features, the GameCube's graphics, and the Wii's controls.
  
  Alot probably wonder whether it's orth to buy or not. I'd say it is. It's only $30 and has by far 
 the best controls out of all versions. If you don't like the new controls, you can use the GameCube 
 controller or the Classic controller (which is mainly used for playing the Wii's downloadable Virtual 
 Console games) making owning the GameCube version pointless.
  
  For those who have not made themselves familiar to the game already, it's the story of Leon Kennedy, 
 a survivor of the Racoon City incident in Resident Evil 2 (which took the form of a Zombie outbreak) . 
 He is charged with the duty of rescuing the new Presidents kidnapped duaghter, and his chase to 
 find her lead him to a European village of Spanish peasents. Leon gets caught in the middle of 
 a vengeance to America from Osmund Saddler, the leader of the village's religous cult, Los Illuminades. 
 He has infected all of his fallowers with Las Plagas, a parasite that controls those who are too 
 weak to control it themselves. The plaga will sometimes show itself when an enemy's head is blown 
 off in-game. Everything in the story will lead you from the village to a castle, and later an island 
 of crazed commandos.
  
  The idea of the game is very different from past Resident Evils. Instead of the slow moving Zombies, 
 you will be running away from and decapitating, hopeless infected villagers, cultists, and commandos 
 called Ganandos, which in Spanish, means livestock . Areas are much bigger then the mansions of 
 Resident Evil games, now enemies can come at you from all angles, coming at you faster then zombies, 
 and holding weapons that are much more dangerous then zombies. Early in the game, not only do they 
 come at you torches and pitchforks, but a burlapsack wearing maniac just happens to have what many 
 consider THE enemy weapon in the game: The chainsaw. Lucky us there are only a small number of 
 chainsaw weilding freaks, until your encounter with them you will be rumaging through the village, 
 fighting for your life, meeting both friends like Luis Sera and foes like Cheif Mendez or the 20 
 year old man who looks like an 80 year old kid, Salazar.
  
  If the not-well thought through dialoug has got you done (which might be the case, the script could 
 definitly be better) , the game play is sure to cheer you up. The camera is now over Leon's shoulder 
 which you just can't help but to feel it has the perfect camera placement. Only problem is that 
 sometimes, when you're moving the camera will shift downward and at an angle, which forces you 
 to move the camera manually with the D-pad (the replacment for the C-stick on the GameCube controller) , 
 but unfortunatly it does not hold.
  
  One character who became very well known to the gaming world, is the weapons merchant, a cloaked 
 villager who is kind enough to sell you weapons, and upgrade your current ones. With his limited 
 quotes, the merchant is a very fun guy to come across every so often. Most of teh time offering 
 something new. Too bad he doesn't sell ammo straight forward, which you'll find yourself wanting 
 several times throughout the game when your guns have run out.
  
  In order to aim you hold down the Z-button (as apposed to the R-button) and Leon wil stop in his 
 tracks to point at the enemies, who you shoot by pressing A. Instead of a red laser pointer you 
 get cross hairs. These cross hairs are usually green, but when pointed at something that would 
 be affected from being shot, they turn red. Only problem is that far away targets don't turn the 
 pointer red, but they still get affected anyway. The knife has been moved to the C-button, but 
 you can now also use it by waving the Wii Remote when you're not pointing your gun, and now the 
 kinife will center itself to the nearest possible target, making evrything much easier. Weapons 
 that use scopes are used almost exactly like on the GameCube controller, while aiming you use the 
 control stick to move the position of the weapon, the main difference is that you use the Z and 
 C buttons to zoom in and out instead of the C-stick on the GameCube controller.
  
  One problem with the port is that it is now MUCH easier. Using the Wii remote to point allows you 
 to aim faster and shoot with higher accuracy, which helps conserve ammo to teh point that you never 
 run dry until alot later in the game. I guess that's a risk to making a fun game more fun.
  
  The graphics are exactly the same as on GameCube, even though they were pretty much teh best 
 at the time, now they just could have done better. Since the PS2 bonus content in the game never 
 had a GameCube version, Capcom had to run what they started from scratch with the PS2's graphics, 
 through the GameCube's, and the result wasn't too good. For the most part it looks the same as 
 the rest of the game, but things like items look completley different, and some textures aren't 
 as smooth as they could be. I just wish they ran it through the Wii's graphics engine, instead 
 of the GameCube's.
  
  Once you've beaten the game you unlock a large number of content. A round two file that lets you 
 start off with everything you had at the end of the game is one of them, with the choice between 
 regualr outfits, or special ones that change Leons clothing into his Racoon City Police outfit, 
 the Presidents daughter Ashley wears popstar cloths, and the mysterious Ada Wong, who assists Leon 
 several times throughout, wears her Assignment Ada outfit from her mini-game you unlock for completing 
 the main game. Assignment Ada is a game wear you go around Saddlers Island, collecting Plaga samples. 
 Another game is The Mercernaries, where you play as one of five characters (two who do not make 
 an apearence in the main game) and try to kill as many Ganandos in an area as possible. Exclusive 
 to the PS2 and PC until now, Seperate Ways is teh story following Ada at teh same time as Leon's 
 story. Additional weapons are added to the Merchants list by beating the game and the mini-games, 
 from the main game you get the Infinite Rocket Launcher and Mitilda, from the Mercenaries, the 
 Handcannon, from Sepertate Ways and Assingment Ada, the Chicago Typewriter.
  
  This is undoubtfully the best version of the game, but other then controls it offers nothing new. 
 No bonus content of it's own, but at least it's at a cheap retail price, making itself your number 
 one prioity on your to buy list. A definite reccomended buy for a better version of a great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peak4life
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 22, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  Overall the same as the gamecube with some added content Same great game new controls,
  the Wii controls are a great addition the only negative on the controls are the knife and the panning 
 in game play
  When you hit someone with the knife they take a step back so you need to get out of knife controls 
 run to him and go back in.
  As for panning its hard to aim at multiple enemies because of the centered
  screen oh well you 
 can't win them all.
  
  As for resolution on a high def screen it doesn't take advantage of the progressive scan 480p at 
 all and leave two annoying black bars on either side that are about half a inch thick that was 
 the most disappointing part of this game for me,
  this game has been released on previous platforms so all you had to do capcom is update the graphic 
 a bit to make it shinier and a lot of people would have been happier.
  
  anyway anyone that was a fan of Re4 would love this version and those new to the experience would 
 enjoy the game overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigrueny
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 22, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  If you love long, creepy, suspensful games that will keep your interest until the end then you 
 will love this game. First of all the game is a real steal for only $30.00 new. Then it keeps your 
 intrest until you beat it, and then you want to play again. The controls are kinda difficult at 
 first but after you get the hang of it than it is a snap. If you beat games really easily try to 
 beat this fast, there are so many things to unlock and so much to do that it is hard to put down. 
 This is a great addition to the Resident Evil games, and a great addition to the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackNproud1142
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 21, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4: Wii edition is the best shooter for the Wii so far and an exellent addition to 
 your Wii library! The action packed game-play, over the edge cinimatics, and deep storyline will 
 keep you hooked for a while if you havn't already enjoyed it on the Gamecube or Plastation 2 version. 
 If your looking for a decent shooter for the Wii, this game is for you.
  
  Good:
  -Wii remote makes it easier to shoot accurately Bad:
  -Graphics haven't improved at all since 
 the original Gamecube version
  -Takes a while to get used to
  
  Ugly:
  -No Wii exclusive content -Really just a port from the Gamecube to the Wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PolkaStripe
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 21, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Good Points - . Brilliant Gameplay.. much needed improvement from the Third person view in its 
 predcesors!
  . Very accurate Shooting.. the Wii remote is perfect for this type of play!
  . Gripping Storyline!
  . Great idea to add in extras e. g Seperate ways, pro version, The Merchanaries, 
 movie browser ect.
  . Graphics.. even after 2 years the Graphics still look Great!
  
  Bad points - . Um.. its a 2 year old game?
  . ?
  
  Resident Evil 4 Wii edition is just what 
 the Wii needed, I modern shooter with a long in-deph story. You take on your role as Leon s. kennedy 
 who is sent to find Ashley Graham the presidents daughter who was kidnapped on her way home from 
 university. This resident evil is a little different from the others there are no zombies, instead 
 there are deranged europeans that have been injected with eggs from a mysterious bug. This allows 
 there Lord, Lord Saddler to control them and he plans to take control of the world with this mysterious 
 bug. The control scheme in this version is much easier than in the PS2 and GC version because using 
 the wiimote as a gun to take head shots and foot shots is so much more easier and satisfying than 
 doing it with a regular last-Gen remote. Some of cutscenes and monsters are genuinly scary. Well 
 im going to make this a short review and end by saying If you own a wii you have to get this despite 
 Gaming preference. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipppvix
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 21, 2007 5:30 am PT
Review:  This game was one of the first Wii shooters I have played so far, and it was excellent. In this 
 game you are Leon Kennedy and you are on a mission to save the president of the United States' 
 daughter, Ashley. At first you are dropped off in this village that appears to be abbandend, but 
 it turns out there are a bunch of zombies. There are two game modes, Normal and Professional. You 
 will have to beat the game on normal first before you unlock pro.
  
  In this game there are a ton of weapons including all the handguns, magnums, shotguns, rifles, 
 the mine launcher, the rocket launcher, and the TMP. Plus after you beat the game on normal there 
 are couple more weapons unlocked for professional mode. *Also so you know it is very hard to find 
 magnum ammo, I went through the whole game and olny found about 30 peices.*
  
  Scattered through out the game are merchants, they allow you to buy and sell things, plus tune 
 up your weapons. *And a tip when you go to the merchant buy the treasure maps he offers.* Because 
 the map actually shows you where valuable treasure is, that you can sell and get loads of money 
 for. And make sure you don't kill the merchants by accident, because unless you revert back to 
 your last save and do what you did inbetween that again he will be gone. But, only in that one 
 spot.
  
  Ashley in this game can't do much for herself, even though there is one level you play as her. 
 And when you jump down a ladder you willl have to catch her, because she won't climb down it. And 
 you have to protect her a lot, cause she never gets a gun.
  
  I would say that this is a great game, but I don't think I would buy it only because I rented for 
 5 days and beat it, and I wasn't constently playing either. But, I would borrow or rent this game, 
 unless you also want to beat it on pro then I would suggest buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnarfShady2001
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 20, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a casual fan of Resident Evil in the sense that I would play it at my friend's 
 house for a little bit and try to help him with the puzzles. However, I never thought that I could 
 get used to the camera angle. (I'm used to games with free-roaming 360' cameras like the Zeldas, 
 Splinter Cells, and Hitmans of the gaming world.
  
  However, after playing this game, I can only say that it adds to the gameplay experience, especially 
 when you hear the ominous enemy music but don't see them on-screen. Yes, this does make the game 
 harder, but I think that's the appeal of this game, and in particular the series that created the 
 very genre that it is a part of.
  
  My only real complaints about the game are that the graphics don't seem to be touched up for the 
 new gen (I did get a quick look/gameplay at the GameCube version, but it was another one of those 
 casual gaming things that I played the game at one of those GameCube displays in a store.) and 
 I did think that, while manageable, the game threw you in to a difficult battle situation a bit 
 too early (although this has nothing to do with learning the controls and everything to do with 
 being five minutes into the game and ... well, I'll let you play it for yourself and find out) . 
 Later, these same kinds of situations come up, but by that time you have more experience and have 
 had a chance to upgrade your weapons and health, so it's not as much of an issue. I do, indeed, 
 love the point-and-click controls. However, I do wish a few minor improvements. First, I would 
 have liked to be able to look around the room with only the use of the Wiimote instead of also 
 using the Nunchuk's analog stick. This does become a pain early on in the game, but it's all part 
 of the learning curve and really not that big an issue. However, I can see a point to this as it 
 does allow you to relax your hand/wrist a bit and not have to point it directly at the middle of 
 the screen for the duration of a gameplay marathon. So, I guess it's six in one, half-a-dozen in 
 the other. Another fine tune that I would have like to see is using only one button (preferrably 
 the B trigger) to fire, rather than using B to bring up aiming mode and then A to fire. The idea 
 of run-and-gun that some people complain about not being able to do was not as big of an issue 
 for me. I much preferred to take an aimed headshot compared to shooting while running. This helps 
 you conserve ammo, which is a big necessity in this game. I had to finish off this one late-game 
 mini-boss (El Gigante) with four or five swipes of my knife because I had run out of ammo!! (Note: 
 I think that was more of a proud moment for me than actually beating the game, considering that 
 I was at about 1/10th of a bar of health with no herbs or sprays in my inventory.
  
  A short synopsis of the plot goes as follows: The game takes place six years after the events of 
 the original outbreak and the destruction of Raccoon City. (Please note: this is a late spoiler 
 alert for those of you like me who have never played the original Resident Evils.) Leon Kennedy 
 makes his return to gaming glory as a member of the United States Secret Service on a mission to 
 find the President's missing daughter Ashley. He travels to an unnamed country in Europe, although 
 it's most presumably (yeah, that might sound like improper English, but it gets the point across, 
 right?) Spain. I, obviously, won't give away any of the actual plot to the game, but I will tell 
 you that he is about to expend more ammunition than any member of the Secret Service in the past, 
 present, or, most presumably (there it is again!) future.
  
  Overall, this is a SUPERB game (thus the 9.6 rating) . lol (... Sorry, corny joke. Wait ... that 
 was your attempt at a joke? Talk about lame! Anyways, where was I? ...) Add this main game to the 
 originally exclusive PS2 additional content, and you have a spectacular game that would probably 
 be a 10 in the value column at $49.99 ... except that it's only $29.99. Sadly, there is no 15 out 
 of 10 rating for the value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilootin
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 20, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  I was stunned with this game, I started playing with high expectations and they were all met. This 
 game is superb.
  
  Graphics: Well, not that big of a change from the gamecube version but still it looks great, lighting 
 is awesome, the guns look uber, the characters are awesome, nearly perfect except the minor clipping 
 from here to there. This game is amazing and the detail is astounding, every drop of blood has 
 the same amout of detail as the environment. Thank you Capcom for being perfectionists.
  
  Gameplay: This game is a hella fun on the Wii, I don't usually play my Wii, nor do I like any of 
 the games for it, except this. I love this game. The Wii controls make it so much fun, I especially 
 love the use of the built in Wiimote speaker, listening to my rifle being reloaded through that 
 speaker is a treat everytime. I couldn't have asked for more from this game gameplay, the context 
 sensitiveness is awesome too.
  
  Sound: Just amazing, the voice acting is ownage, it's done so well, you could tell the actors had 
 a passion for the game. The music is phenominal, most of the time there isn't any but thats because 
 there isn't any enimies around, you know the silence won't last for long, awesome music.
  
  Overall: This game smokes any other Wii games, If you're looking for an awesome shooter, look no 
 further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: immortal_ermac
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 20, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is a port for other systems. But what makes this version stand out from the other versions 
 is the controls obviously and they took the things that the gamecube had and added the extras from 
 the PS2 version. The only thing that was a a little bit of a turn off was the second unlockable 
 costume disappering during the cut-scenes however this is kind of a good thing since the 2nd set 
 of unlockable costumes are so outlandish.
  I believe This game is a DEFINITE BUY and the price being so low it is a real deal if anything 
 the price is to low for this game
  I'd like to see the next resident evil try to top this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaktiboi
Rating: 2.2
Date: Jul 20, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game based on the 9.1 score at GameSpot without playing it first. My mistake; the 
 gameplay is *terrible* and I returned it the very next day. The control scheme is the number one 
 problem. You can go forward or spin left right, but you can't strafe. When you need to shoot you 
 can move your reticle around but you cannot turn or move. This is beyond old-school; it's just 
 simply retarded. Modern FPS control schemes must allow for strafing and circle strafing. How hard 
 would it be to make your character look up down left right as needed when your aiming reticle hits 
 the edges of the screen? That would be intuitive.
  
  The second huge problem is the gameplay pacing. The very first town you hit with more than one 
 or two zombies is simply overwhelming. Far too many come at you far too fast. Couple that with 
 the terrible control scheme and it's game over at the very first real battle. Bleh. Don't waste 
 your money on this dog. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TanyaLover
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 20, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  2005 was the famous year when the all-mighty popular video game known as Resident Evil 4 was released 
 to public. Still known as one of the best video games of all time, it has been ported to three 
 other platforms. One of which, the Wii; the most recent port. This beautifully transferred game 
 will absolutely do nothing but awe the consumer. Using the Wii's new controller scheme and mixing 
 it with Resident Evil has created another masterpiece.
  
  The Wiimote is cleverly used as, of course, the aiming and firing of the protagonist's firearm (s) . 
 The player will notice a faint grey target that moves voluntarily along with the motions of the 
 controller. When the gun is drawn, the target turns a bright green, and when it is highlighted 
 on an enemy, a valiant red will appear. This simple, yet brilliant system worked like a stupendous 
 charm, and is easily the most fun fragment of the entire game itself. Also, if the player suddenly 
 jarrs the Wiimote, Leon will slash his blade as if you were the one who drew the knife and swiped 
 it.
  
  Resident Evil 4 when first released on the GameCube was noted for having breath taking graphical 
 effects. Resident Evil is quite famous for this. The Wii version of the game is also amazing, but 
 perhaps not quite the best it could possibly be at. There may be some boxy or off-textured structures 
 that are found now-and-then throughout the game. However, they still are top notch, and are currently 
 the best graphics available for the Wii.
  
  Sound in the Wii version of Resident Evil 4 are as was in the GameCube. A word to describe it is 
 only this: perfect. Outstanding voice acting, awesome firearm effects, erie ganado groans. Everything 
 is as best as can be.
  
  Resident Evil 4 Wii Edition is by far the best game currently available for the Wii. It is a thrill 
 ride that must be attempted by all Wii owners whether or not this series piques their fancies. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drbob33
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 20, 2007 1:00 am PT
Review:  Like many hardcore gamers, I tend to power on the Wii and dust off the ole' Wiimotes only when 
 friends come over. We love making idiots of ourselves playing WarioWare. I have played only a handful 
 of good single player adventures since the launch of the Wii -- Zelda and Paper Mario are the only 
 titles that come to mind. So, Resident Evil 4 was certainly a most welcome addition to my Wii library. 
 It is not only the absolute best game on the Wii so far, it is one of the best games of all time. 
 It is nothing short of a landmark title that will be remembered and put in top 10 lists for years 
 to come. For me personally, it one of my top 5 games ever, which is no small feat, and is a unique 
 honor, as no other game of the new generation has even hit my top 10. I haven't felt this exited 
 about a game since Ocarina of Time. This game should not be missed, period.
  
  The Good: Superb sound, stunning graphics, thrilling action for the entire game, tightly written 
 story and dialog, awesome weapons, amazing value at $30, non-stop entertainment and fun.
  
  The Bad: No widescreen/480p support. Come ON I didn't buy this HDTV for nothing Nintendo! Default 
 picture settings are WAY too dark (+25 brightness in the game settings looked roughly normal on 
 my television) . The high level of difficulty stops the fun for a few battles (the double garrador 
 and double el gigante fights just SUCK) and frustration sets in when you are too broke or don't 
 have enough ammo.
  
  Verdict: Buy. RIght now. Stop reading. Go buy and play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barloc1337
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 19, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4, now making its appearance on the wii console, is truly a great game to buy, even 
 if you have already played the previous games. Even after the release a couple years ago, it still 
 remains one of the top shooters of the decade. Now since it is on the wii, there are new controls 
 to the game that add a nice twist. For starters aiming is now done by holding the B button, and 
 using to A to fire. While aimed you can reload by shaking the wii mote off screen, kinda like any 
 good light gun game. And maybe the best thing about the controls, is the knife. Now instead of 
 using a button to take it out and then hitting another to slash (although you can still preform 
 it this way) , now while not aimed, you can swing the wii mote to quickly slash a foe. A very nice 
 touch added to the game.
  
  The graphics in the game are not as polished as the gamecube version. But the biggest difference 
 is the laser light has been taken away only to be replaced my an aiming reticule. This reticule 
 now turns red when aimed at an enemy, thus making the game a little easier, which for some people 
 could be a problem, as for me, i thought this was a nice upgrade.
  
  Now the sound in this game in all version has truly been the greatest part of the game, now with 
 the wii mote speaker, some sounds are used in the device. When either swinging your knife, or reloading 
 your gun (to name a few) , this really gives it a realistic feeling.
  
  This game features the extras from the ps2 version such as separate ways which lets you play as 
 the lovely Ada Wong. Overall this game is what you would expect if you have played through the 
 story, but the new additions add some flash to it, and there is no reason not to pick it up. And 
 if you haven't played the game, i recommend it for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WWEKane1515
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Well I have finally bought RE4 for the Wii and i've got to say... im not let down... recently I played 
 the Gamecube version which isn't bad.... but really... whats not cool about reloading your gun and 
 slashing your Comando knife with your Wii-mote? My point exactly. Simply put RE4 for the Wii is the 
 best of its class... the graphics and physics of this game are mind blowing.... it really felt like 
 i was playing a ps2 game on my Wii, the graphics were so good, not only that but aiming couldn't 
 be much easier with the help of the Wii-mote. If anyone was to choose which version of RE4 to get... i 
 suggest getting the Wii version. For only $29.99 its as good as its gonna get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkRaven_basic
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - The Wiimote really adds a lot to a game like this. Shooting down baddies never really 
 gets old. It also makes the game a bit easier, and brings you more into it. I played this game 
 on the gamecube, and with in a few hours i was bored with it, but on the wii i finished the game 
 and am going back for more. It would have been nice if you could shoot or atleast reload while 
 running, but i guess that takes away from the expense. Graphics - This is where the game shows 
 it age a bit. They're not good enough for todays standards but they're not so bad that it takes 
 you out of the experience. Sound - The only problems with the sound of the game is hearing the 
 enemies say the same lines over and over again, which can get kind of annoying going into 10 hours 
 of the game and sometimes in the games cut scenes the voice acting is really corny. Other then 
 that the sound effects are really well done.
  
  Value - There're a ton of things to do in the game. The main campaign is around 13 hours, which 
 isnt bad. After you have finished the game, you unlock a bunch of extras. There're a couple missions 
 you can play through with Ada which explain more of the story line and are a lot fo fun. Then theres 
 Mercs which you just see how many zombies u can kill in a certain amount of time, which will unlock 
 characters with different abilities. New customs and weapons will b unlocked also that are worth 
 checking out.
  
  Overall this is a great game for the Wii and makes me excited for future titles and what the Wii 
 can do to make them a lot of fun and addicting. This is by far my favorite game for the Wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tabarnak!
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 19, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Ok. Like a lot of people here I really enjoyed the game. Great Graphics, sound and atmosphere. 
 For the Wii the controls are much better than the gamecube. Some parts of the game really keep 
 you on the edge of your seat with your eyes wide open and your heart pounding hard in your chest. 
 Yes I felt really nervous at times but in a good way. I like these games where I'm afraid of what 
 I might find on the other side of the next door. Ok. That's it for the good part. I like a challenge. 
 But some placee in the game really were on the limit between challenging and frustrating. The place 
 where I lost most interest is when you have to ''babysit'' the president's daughter, making sure 
 she doesn't get caught or killed by the baddies. Add to this the fact that sometimes enemies keep 
 endlessly coming like a bunch of flies on poop and you got yourself a nice swear-inducing game. 
 There was that particular scene in the game where I had to pass a bunch of baddies with the girl 
 and activate two switches and then come back to where all the baddies were to use a crank (with 
 the wii remote) while about 20 of those creeps run after you with mace and club. Killing them wasn't 
 effective as more kept coming back. I call that ''cheating'' with the difficulty as that's exactly 
 what the game was doing. Anyway. The good thing is I could continue the game right at that moment... 
 the bad thing is I continued over and over. After the 20th try I gave up. I don't think that being 
 frustrating should be the goal of a game and that's exactly what it ended up being to me.
  
  Overall though, I must admit that I appreciated the better moments. And if it's a challenge 
 you want, then a challenge you'll get! Be warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owl777
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 19, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  The math is very simple, the game is a complete masterpeice and wont be replaced anytime soon. 
 It put's 360 and PS3 owner's to shame graphically as well which is always nice too. The gameplay 
 provides a very compelling story mixed in with advanced computer AI which makes it simpley one 
 of the best games for Wii let alone one of the best games period. I sold 2142 and oblivion to buy 
 this game and let me tell you I think i got one of the best deals of all time. You must buy this 
 game if you own a Wii, end of story. I was never into M rated games, but had a hunch and tried 
 it anyways, zero regrets , this games proves that Wii has a deeper more mature side to it which 
 is often mis-looked these days. PS3 and 360 beware, Wii has just unleashed a beast... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesemonkey199
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 22, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  I never played resident evil 4 before, but I got this version and I would never turn back on my 
 decision to buy it.
  
  This is a stunning game with great graphics, eerie atmosphere and easy interfaces. one of the most 
 important factors is the sound, never before has sound played such an important part in a game 
 as you turn a corner and could be hit a nerve shattering blast of sound or absolute silence. the 
 controls are so easy to use one you get the hang of it, and that won't take you long to do either. 
 because I never played the other versions I couldn't possibly imagine using a joypad with this 
 game. a fantastic storyline accompanies the game as well, with plenty of plot twists and great 
 characters to keep you entertained and amazed throughout.
  
  overall this is an absolute must buy, not only because of the value, the controls and the awesomeness, 
 but also because it's 10 quid less than a normal wii game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpgalindo
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  First of all I have to say I never played the game cube version or the ps2 version, so thats why 
 I am giving it a high review
  
  This game is awesomee!! the controls feel just right, I must say they are flawless, this game has 
 the best use of the wii mote on a FPS what it isnt a FPS well I dont care the controls are great 
 :D
  
  The graphics are great (for being a game cube import) and I am not being sarcastic I believe they 
 do look great.
  
  The sound is awesome, the sound coming out from your wii mote make you feel like you are inside 
 of the game, the voice acting is great to, and well I have always love the sound that all resident 
 evils give to you.
  
  Value what the value is the best, a great game for just 30 bucks what are you waiting for even 
 if you already played the other version this game is awesome, I just finished the game and I want 
 to give it another try.
  
  The gameplay is awesome, maybe a little to easy when you get the magnum and just go and blow up 
 the bosses really fast, but the story is great, all the game is great, you put a great story with 
 some great gameplay and you have a great game for the wii.
  
  If you dont have this game, what are you waiting for, go for it now :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umcommon
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  After having huge success on the Game Cube and Playstation 2 bringing Resident Evil 4 to Wii was 
 kind of a no brainer. The level of immersion is simply amazing with the motion sensing Wii-mote, 
 all I have to do is point and shoot. Honestly I never want to use dual analog sticks again for 
 a game unless I have to. By todays standards the graphics are slightly dated but over all everything 
 looks smooth and detailed with no blur or jaggedy edges. In terms of value this game doesn't get 
 any better, for only $30 you get many hours worth of play and unlike many adventure games RE4 is 
 a game you want to play over and over. If you own a Wii get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supafly43218
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 18, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  This review is coming from someone who loved the original resident evils for playstation 1 and 
 who never played RE4 for the gamecube. I can't put this game down! The game makes incredible use 
 of the Wiimote and nunchuck - aiming is spot on, reloading is quick and snappy, and holstering 
 the knife is as easy as can be. Although not xbox 360 graphics, im HAPPY THEY ARE NOT! They graphics 
 are dark and gritty. The sound and feeling is always creepy no matter where you are. The voice 
 acting and cutscenes are superb and dont disrupt the action. If you have never played this game, 
 its a MUST HAVE... and if you have played the game, why not pick it up for the wii, its only $29.99!!!!! 
 I would have picked this up regardless of the price tag, but having it $20 cheaper than the regular 
 wii price makes this game a must-have for every wii owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robbishrob04
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Though in my opinion, this game could have used some more hardcore puzzles seen in previous titles... RE4 
 has enough ridiculous zombie action to make up for it. RE4 gives new light to a series that was 
 starting to become very tedious and repetitive from game to game. And with the introduction of 
 the wii controller, it becomes even more incredible from its original release. The controls are 
 absolutly perfect for the wii. From aiming at the screen to get headshots a plenty, to swinging 
 it back and forth to cut up some zombies..... it just works.
  RE4 was the best looking game that came out on the gamecube, so it's a joyful welcome to Wii owners 
 who are looking for some graphical capability. Though you can tell its a little dated, RE4 still 
 looks as good as i remember the first time I played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: je_taime_RB_27
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 18, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 Wii Edition
  
  The story is the same, the unlockables are the same. But the controls are no more the same.
  
 The new controls are amazing! It's just incredible and when I play it's a little bit easier (my 
 opinion) . You don't feel like you're Leon but when play you're having the same fun that you had 
 when you played Resident evil 4 for the first time. It's like discovering the game by another side.
 
  The graphics are still the same, great. But somethimes it could ennoy you. The sounds are also 
 the same but also really good.
  
  If you're a big fan of the Resident Evil serie go buy the game. It doesn't cost a lot so...
  
 ... do what I said, buy it. You'll have fun!
  
  Thanks for read! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: restlessdragon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 17, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  This game has got it all ... innovative control system, great game play, compelling storyline, 
 real bonus material (not videos or game artwork but actual playable mini-games) ... I am still dumbfounded 
 how they managed to bring this game to market for 30 bucks ... at that price it is an absolute 
 steal. If you own a Wii console and you have not played this game then you have done yourself a 
 grave injustice ... buy it pre-played if you're cheap or borrow it from a friend ... but don't 
 miss playing this one ... I consider it to be the best game out for the Wii to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ookami-gamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  i absolutely loved this game on the ps2 and the re-make for the wii is just as good. unfortunately 
 there is nothing wii-specific except for the bonus sneak peak video of umbrella chronicles you 
 can unlock. the graphics are great compared to most other wii games. i see no difference in graphics 
 or sound from the ps2 version.
  
  the game has a GREAT replay value, with tons of unlock ables, such as infinite ammo rocket launcher, 
 infinite Chicago typewriter (machine gun) , plaga removal laser (one hit kill with charged beam) , 
 handconnon (havent gotten that yet, working on it though) , a separate view of the story from Ada 
 Wong in separate ways as well as assignment Ada, and finally 2 different costumes for Leon, Ada, 
 and Ashley. the controls make the game a tad easier, which could be good or bad. however, they 
 are very easy to get used to. if you loved the the ps2 version, definitely buy this one for the 
 wii. hey, for 30$, its one of the cheapest NEW wii games you can find. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Louis51
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  Let me tell you a story:
  
  I'm not exactly sure why, but I never got round to playing Resident Evil 4 on the GameCube. I've 
 never really been a big fan of the Resident Evil series, excepting the original and the Cube's 
 remake, which I think were both oustanding. So all through RE4's development I ignored it, passing 
 it off as just another RE game. Once released, and receiving multiple Game of the Year awards and 
 perfect reviews, my interest grew a little. My PS2 is broken, so there was no chance of me playing 
 it there. So I decided to wait for the Cube version's price drop. : (
  
  Fast-forward to Christmas 2006, where I open up Gears of War, believing it to be the as close to 
 RE4 I could get, given the amount of times Epic Games stated RE4 as a huge influence on Gears. 
 I'm blown away by Gears, and once again my interest in RE4 increases. So I eventually get my behind 
 down to the game stores to purchase it... but alas, they've sold out. In every store I checked, 
 they had sold out long ago. I decide to check on Amazon, and while they have plenty of NTSC versions 
 to purchase, only pre-owned PAL versions can be bought. : (
  
  Fast-forward to July 2007. I go round to a friend's house and play the Wii for the first time ever. 
 I'm totally floored by the technology. I only played Wii Sports and Medal of Honor: Vanguard, and 
 while neither of these were particuarly good games, the technology of the Wii employed by both 
 stunned me. I get home, gather up my 36 PS2 games which I haven't played for over two years, and 
 decide to go down to GAME the following day and trade them in against a Wii.
  
  I get down to the store, with a heavy bag full of my games, and tell them my intentions. Their 
 reply? The Wii is out of stock . I'm devastated. However, I remember that there's another GAME 
 store about five minutes walk from this one. So I go there and tell them my intentions. You're 
 lucky, they tell me, we have only one left in stock, one which somebody reserved but has not come 
 to collect for two days now. You can have it . I rejoice. :)
  
  They give me to total rip-off discount for my 36 PS2 games of &pound;70. I tell them I want a Wii 
 with Wii Play (for the controller) , a nunchuck and RE4 (by the way, the only reason I didn't want 
 Twilight Princess is because I'm one of the lucky few who got it on GameCube) . I'm sorry, they 
 tell me, we're out of nunchucks and RE4 . I cannot believe my luck. I ask if other shops will have 
 them. I doubt it, they've both been sold out for some time . As upset as I am, I buy the Wii and 
 Wii Play (&pound;145 altogether) , and head out the shop.
  
  HMV is in sight, so I give it one last shot. I head over to the Wii section, and there it is... 
 staring me in the face... the game which is supposed to be sold out... RESIDENT EVIL 4: WII EDITION. 
 I swipe it up in a flash. I scan to check if there are any nunchucks, but there aren't. At this 
 point, I don't care. I rush to the counter and pay for RE4, head home and set up my Wii.
  
  The rest is history. I've been consistently thrilled and impressived by what Resident Evil 4 has 
 to offer. I'm not going to review the game... most of you will know how awesome this game is and 
 what to expect anyway. But I will say that I'm happy I missed out on RE4 all these years so I can 
 play the definitive version with these intuitive controls without knowing what to expect. The game 
 is absolutely awesome.
  
  Thanks for reading my mini novel. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aladd04
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 17, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  I've played and beaten this game numerous times on the GC, PS2, and Wii now so you would think 
 someone would get sick of this game. But this game is so amazing that I still picked it up and 
 played it on the Wii and beat it yet again. I suggest that if you played this game before on another 
 system or have never played it then you should get this game for sure. It's my favorite game along 
 with many others. Here's the layout: You start off playing as Leon S. Kennedy, one of the few survivors 
 of the raccoon city destruction, and your mission is to save the presidents daughter (Ashley Graham) . 
 Now lets get to the good stuff.
  
  Gameplay: Resident Evil 4's controls are a lot more simplistic then all the controls of the past. 
 It's so simplistic that it actually makes the difficulty not as hard as before, or maybe its because 
 i've beaten this game over 10 times. Instead of the red line coming from the gun there is a pointer 
 on the screen showing where you are going to shoot. It moves much faster than when there was a 
 red line making it easier to take down enemies at a quicker pace. I'd say this game should be ranked 
 Hard because it's just a hard game, there are many parts that i would've never gotten past without 
 the help of a strategy guide book. Another cool feature was swinging the remote to use your knife 
 attack and reload. There is tons of extra bonus content that you unlock after beating the main 
 game and it kept me busy for hours on end in the past. So this game isn't just a game with a good 
 story mode, it has great extra features, but sadly no multiplayer. I think that about sums i up, 
 i give gameplay a 10/10.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are phenomenal like in all the systems. It has to be one of the best graphics 
 on the wii since release. Everything works well and moves correctly while playing and the bosses 
 look really great, especially on my grandparents humongous TV. Since everything is good and characters 
 arn't flying through walls i give it a 10/10.
  
  Sound: Sound is well, just sound. Characters mouths are moving correctly with what they say and 
 the voice over is nice and clear. While shooting it keeps a good rhythm and doesn't start making 
 another noise while shooting nonstop with a chicago typewriter at a dead merchant. :lol: The footprints 
 actually make sound and also if you are too loud the crows will fly away and you won't be able 
 to kill it and get its goodies so be careful around those. I'll give sound a 10/10.
  
  Overall this game is a great and will always be a classic. It's the only game, in my books, that 
 deserves a perfect score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drunknmunky225
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 17, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 truly captures the essence of the survival horror genre, revolutionising it to 
 present one of the most entertaining games in a long time.
  
  The new camera angle creates the exact atmospheric nature the game needs, being restricted to view 
 only whats exactly in front of you, it requires frequent camera movement and quick steps and turns 
 for reactive movement of Leon. The game introduces the player at a steady pace, but soon enough 
 the enemies become bigger, faster and stronger. Tearing through boss fights and insane creatures, 
 this is the most impressive collection of enemies in a Resi game to date. The environment is a 
 big leap from previous games; split into village, castle and island areas, each one is very different 
 but equally impressive. Your surroundings are highly interactive, as the game contains many secrets 
 and hidden items to be found, much of which are either directly usable items such as ammunition, 
 or items which make use of the wandering merchant, of which you can sell items or buy from him. 
 Speaking of ammo, you wont usually find yourself with little of it in comparison to earlier games, 
 this can be seen as a good thing as you find yourself taking down enemies more rather than searching 
 around.
  
  One factor that makes the game so enjoyable to play is the exact precision you have over wielding 
 the vast array of weaponry. It can be argued that the Wii version is the definitive one, as the 
 remote point action gives absolute responsiveness when aiming, immersing the player even more. 
 However the genius of the Resident Evil 4 is that it often puts you in very intense positions, 
 be it having to quickly take down a massive group of approaching enemies with one clip, or having 
 a few seconds to take down a monk with one correct shot as they are carrying Ashley hostage. Without 
 mastering an often simple skill such recognising the responsiveness of your wiimote whilst aiming, 
 these situations can often lead the player to panic, a single wrong shot can often be fatal, especially 
 when you need to rescue Ashley. This is one of the few factors of the Wii version that lacks in 
 comparison to the game on the other platforms. The fact your have a more responsive aim can often 
 making aiming you gun quicker and often easier. Sure this can be seen as a good thing, but these 
 intense situations are made easier by more precise movement, you won't be in as much of a rush 
 to take enemies down fast. By the fact you find yourself firing at enemies a lot of the time, the 
 animation and effects of dealing damage is all very convincing, the blood and gore of the series 
 is there in all its glory, however the alternate beauty of the game is never lost. The graphics 
 are superb, even in the darkest areas of the game it always continues the impressive amount of 
 detail. The cut-scenes and general interaction of characters seem influenced by film, slightly 
 reminiscent of the Metal Gear Solid series. But overall the general character presentation and 
 story is very good and utterly convincing, the voice acting seems a little off at times, but generally 
 they are all well suited to their characters. Overall Resident Evil 4 is an unmissable experience 
 that gets the player fully involved with a fierce grip that just doesnt let go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soraheart1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 16, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  I've and probably you have played this game before. You may think that you have played the whole 
 Resident Evil 4. Well your'e wrong. Resident 4 wii edition is even better on the wii. I'll point 
 out the obvious enhancements, like graphics and the story. The graphics is all the same, just a 
 little touch-up here and there. The story is the same, still have to save the presidents daughter 
 from mexico. Now now i'm not saying these are bad qualities, i love the story, i don't care about 
 the repeating storyline. The action and the graphics back it up.
  
  Now the real reasons i love this game. The controls, it actually feels like i'm in the game with 
 all the moving of the Wii mote. What's a re-realease without additional goodies? I love the additional 
 battles and enemies. Especially the new weapons.
  
  All in all, this game is no longer as revolutionary as it was 2 years. Which isn't a bad thing. 
 This game is even more of a blast as it was 2 years ago with the Wii capabillities. I'm now going 
 to leave now to go play the game. That's how addicitive it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slackboy72
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 15, 2007 12:47 am PT
Review:  Picked this up cheap a few days ago as I don't have much else to play on my Wii. Was instantly 
 disappointed with the hammed-up Resident evil, four! that blurted back when sticking it in the 
 Wii. Then got some very good FMV sequences which abound in this.
  
  New to the RE franchise so a bit of back story helped. Straight up there is some nice scare factor 
 with this game and reasonably good graphics from the lil' ol' Wii help to keep the atmosphere. 
 The difference between in game graphics and the FMV is not so great as you would think. Good work 
 from Capcom in this regard.
  
  Unfortunately the game really only make use of the wii-mote's ability to point for aiming your 
 gun. The ability to swing a knife is tied to swing your wii-mote but you can only swing it one 
 way. I would have like to have jabbed my foes and aimed foe their throats but you can only slash 
 their torsos.
  Also head-shots aren't rewarded although you are dealing with zombies I guess. Additionally the 
 inability to move sideways (strafe) makes some combat frustrating and walking into rooms perilous. 
 Summing up...
  Good: Immersive and spooky (as you'd expect) . Ability to aim with Wii-mote.
  Bad: Movement control is not the best and may take some time to get used to.
  
  Definite must 
 have when compared to some of the other stuff available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Mario-Fan
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  It's been over 2 years since the original Resident Evil 4 was released for the GameCube, and even 
 after all those years, the game still holds up fabulously on the Wii. This is not just some shoddy 
 port. Most of the controls are button focused with the exception of the aiming, which is done by 
 pointing and moving the Wii remote on screen. The fact that you can move the cursor from the camera 
 separately makes it easier to take on hordes of enemies. I had lots of trouble completing Professional 
 mode in the GameCube version, not so much on the Wii version. Would this game be worth a purchase 
 if you already have the GameCube version? I think so. There is the addition of Separate Ways, which 
 was created for the PS2 version when it came out. There's also a nice trailer for the upcoming 
 Wii came RE: Umbrella Chronicles set to come out later this year. Combine that with the low $30 
 price tag, and you've got yourself a steal! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkside2501
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 13, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 breaks away from the original games, but still manages to be just as good - infact 
 better! Some fans of the earlier games may be dissapointed by these changes, but for the most part, 
 the game really benifits from them. Firstly, the major change is that it is no longer a third person 
 shooter, but rather an over the should first person shooter. It had many people wondering if this 
 would keep the games scare factor, but somehow they pulled it off. RE4 manages to keep the same 
 eery feel of the previous games, while using a more mainstream approach.
  
  Unlike previous games, you are not fighting zombies, but rather Ganados. They are similar to zombies, 
 but smarter, faster and a bit more human like. They also have the ability to communicate between 
 them. The plot is also a little less complicated, and cheesy, but since this game breaks away from 
 the original RE story anyway, it doesn't matter to much. Another new aspect is the ability to purchase 
 and upgrade weapons from a merchant who pops up in the strangest of places.
  
  RE4 also features some great voice acting, nice music that keeps true to the surroundings, and 
 dead on sound FXs combined with the immersive gameplay. It has some well designed, despite easy, 
 puzzles. Best of all, is the boss fights and varieties of Ganados you will face, including insects 
 with the ability to turn invisible, a blind one with incredible hearing and massive steal claws, 
 and an awesome boss fight against Krauser, with some cool little mid-action commands to press. 
 The downside is the all to easy final boss and the lack of the ability to start on pro mode. The 
 graphics also aren't as spiffy as the cube version, but this is compensated by some new modes added 
 to the already existing ones. You will find 3 new types of gameplay, including Seperate Ways (a 
 second story that follows Ada) , Project Ada (a five level mini-game) and the Mercanaries (a challenging 
 series of mini-games that allow you to unlock new characters including Krauser, Ada, Hunk and Wesker) .
 
  
  There is no multi-player mode though, something i've been hoping a main Resident Evil game would 
 include, but there is still a large amount of replayability, having personally played through the 
 game several times. The games doesn't feature any additional Wii content, but the Wii controls 
 alone make up for it. It's atleast a rental for anyone who owns another copy of the game. I was 
 tired of the PS2 version after playing it through 10-12 times, but the Wii controls made up for 
 one more play through. If this is the first copy of the game your playing, then you're about to 
 experience the best copy of the game first hand.
  
  It's really worth checking out. 9.5/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokefan12345678
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 13, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  O. k I'm pokefan12345678 and I'm reviewing RE4 Wii Edition. I'm going to explain why I gave the 
 different catergories the rating I gave them.
  Gameplay: I gave gameplay a 10. Its easy to start up and dive right into. The Wii remote makes 
 it even more fun by allowing you to maximize headshotss and area specific spots to their maximum 
 potential. The bosses are especially fun. The enimies are smart and cunning which makes it even 
 funner to play. The gameplay is just outstanding.
  Graphics: The graphics suprised me. They were incredible. When it rains you can actually see the 
 ripples form when it hits the ground. When you perform a headshot you can actually see the brain 
 matter fly through the air.
  The bosses are pricless they look amazing espcially It and Verdugo. The scenary is awesome. The 
 game just looks amazing.
  Sound: The game has great sound. I love it when the Ganodos talk in Spanish it really adds to mood 
 of the game. The voice overs are great. The acting is done really well. There is an errie music 
 when you fight Regenarators and an action themed music in the heat of battle. Each boss has its 
 own music number.
  Value: This game is definately a bang for your buck. With the extra side quests it adds even more 
 playing time the your gaming experience. Seperate Ways about 5 hours. Assignment Ada 1-2, and Mercs (attempting 
 to get the Handcanoon) from 5-30 hours depending on your skill level. With professional mode and 
 unlockable weapons you can replay the game over and over. Bored try doing the game with only your 
 favourite weapon. Feel like a challenge try beating bosses with your knife. The possibilities are 
 endless. Buy this game NOW!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackspider101
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  This is my first shooter game on the wii. At first I thought the controls were going to be hard 
 like pointing. It wasn't. At first I thought it was going to be very hard it was not. 100 zombies 
 coming at you is not the hard. 3 choices what to do. 1. Kill them with your guns.2. shoot TNT 3. hide. 
 The bosses are really really fun. There are very cool images. There realist blood (Witch is kinda 
 cool but gross) and giant eyeballs try to rip you apart. Its cool because when you swing the wii 
 mote you slash your knife. I do run out of amo sometimes witch is kinda hard to kill guys with only 
 a knife. They have so many guns. My favorite is the TMP (witch is the gun that runs out of amo all 
 the time) witch you can kill guys fast. You also can upgrade your gun but it is pretty expensive. 
 Some bosses don't use guns. Like one of them ripped his his body open and turned into a catipiller 
 organ thing. Only one boss uses guns. Its like one of the last bosses you kill. I keep pretty good 
 on health packs tho. you can mix herbs and those are pretty helpful too. you don't always use guns 
 you use grenades witch are not that helpful. I give resident evil 5 ***** out of five .10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterDarkJedi1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 28, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  About everyone who owns a gamecube or PS2 has played Resident Evil 4 by now. So the game is now 
 on the Wii and bet most of the people that have bought this game already have it for a different 
 system. I didn't think this verison will bring many new people to the world of Resident Evil. Resident 
 Evil 4 for Wii isn't much different then the other verison except for the Wii controls. Plus you 
 could game already could play on the Wii with the Gamecube version, but if don't PS2 the Wii verison 
 has Ada's Separate Ways. Which is some value for Gamcube owners.
  GRAPHICS
  Now on to the game itself. The graphics look great but, its two years too late. The game's graphic 
 is being overshadowed by Gears of War, Rainbow Six Vegas and others, but its one of the best looking 
 of Wii still.
  Meaning if a two year old game looks better than current Wii games, Nintendo has to step up its 
 game. SOUND AND VALUE
  The sound is still great and holds up very well for a two year old game. The game has a lot of 
 value with around 15-20 hours in the main story and then have all the extra side missions with 
 Ada. Also there is a PRO mode and replaying the story with new weapons and all your items from 
 your last game. So you easily could clock in a 100 hours. Plus the game is only 30 bucks. That 
 is cheap and its like only game besides Zelda and Red Steel that isn't a bunch of mini-games.
 
  GAMEPLAY
  Ok, I save the gameplay for last. The controls of Wii are fun, but there some problems. The laser 
 has been replace with a target reticle which turns red when lock on to an enemy and its is also 
 on screen. Also you can't scroll without using your nunchuck. Also the difficulty has been turn 
 down a bit. Making it the easiest verison of the RE4. Now on to the good side. It is fun swing 
 the Wii Remote to use Leon's knife. Also waving the remote to run away from huge rocks or to dodge 
 attacks. I think they could have used more of the Wii features to make it better and by adding 
 Wii only contact, but still is a great game and a must buy at $30 dollars. It has some problems, 
 but that is a lot more good than bad and the problems are not that big. So go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morrowindeler
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 12, 2007 4:20 am PT
Review:  Not many can port a game that has such high standards such as Resident Evil 4, I thought oh in 
 original form as when I heard about this game for the first time. Holy Facking Gawd, you really 
 better be kidding me Just change fack and gawd around. This feeling may just have been indused 
 by a lackluster round of Red Steel online. Oh wait there is no online. But this is not the place 
 to be complaining. The only thing thing that in any entirety bugged me is the easiness of the game 
 but what can you do. Great job nintendo with a great port I will not waste my viewers time reading 
 this by ranting propaganda of any system but if you own a Wii even if you had played it on any 
 other system pick this title up you will be happy. Note from Gears of Will- How did this score 
 higher than Twighlight Princess? Gears of Will 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewmgreendawg
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 11, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  It's been a while since i've played a game obsessivley. It's been even longer since i wrote a review. 
 Here goes my run on sentence/poor grammar/community college review:
  
  Resident evil 4 returning on the wii console proved to be more fun than i imagined. the control 
 took a wii bit (heh) to get used to and proved to be more difficult earlier but after i adjusted 
 i found that using the wiimote for aiming was more effective than the gamecube controls. the button 
 timed sequences, while minute, have been dumbed down a bit (most of them are wiimote swipes or 
 pressing of the a and b buttons) but this doesn't really mean anything. the graphics are still 
 acceptable now. decent shadows, great looking monsters and spanish pesants, creepy enviroments. 
 the music and sounds compliment the game perfectly, especially when you have surround sound. replay 
 value is higher than the gamecube version by a little because the seperate ways side mission has 
 been added that was previously only on the ps2 version. with gameplay good enough to play though 
 the story a few times, extra missions and a 29.99 price tag its hard to not buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baltor3
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 11, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. So think to buy it if you have a wii!
  Well. I'm here to present you what resident evil on a wii mean. Don't even think that the same 
 think like the old R4 on the GC. No, with the new command of the wii and the command shooter, that 
 really better than the old version. Ok the graphics are a little bit.. not appropriate for a wii. 
 But with the new gameplay, is really a great game. So if you want to spend your money in a good 
 game on a wii. Try this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guckyy
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 10, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  After reading the reviews I expected something amazing out of this game, but sadly I found it average. 
 It plays just like my old Van Helsing game for the ps2 but with slightly better graphics and better 
 controls. Also, I would have preferred it to be more scary. I hope the next installment (umbrella 
 chronicles / RE5) will have more and higher quality zombies that will make me jump out of my seat. 
 I still recommend it even though I don't see what's so special about it. If you like blasting peoples 
 heads off with a shotgun, (which I know you do) and occasionally getting frightened by creatures 
 jumping out at you, then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: milton7874
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 9, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is better than I expected . the graphics of this game are great . the game controls are 
 awesome and very smooth and easier to learn unlike red steels controls they were kinda slow .Man 
 when I went to the store I couldnt believe it was only $30.00. the sound is great really clear 
 .just the right difficulty . the sudden bad guys popping up and scaring your little sister makes 
 it fun, interesting and great. I thought it was multi player when I found it was not I got a little 
 disappointed but its still a great game. yhg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonballgt05
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 9, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks the gamplay is fun as heck. You can run around this enormous area with a pistol 
 and blow heads of rotten zombies that look as if they were real. To tell you the truth sometimes 
 looking at them even scares me. Well you know the graphics are reasonable, but that is respected 
 because the wii is not for graphics. If i want graphics ill go on my pc with an 8800 gts in it 
 which will smoke the ps3 and 360 lol. so please dont compare the wii with other systems. The game 
 sounds are also good they arnt like that scary but their good. Gameply make the whole game work. 
 aiming with the unique wii controller really shows the inovative way that the wii wa supposed to 
 show on the release day. i would give a perfect 10 but needs to work on sound and a few little 
 kinks.
  peace if you like my review contact me yahoo diablohackv10
  aim mrniceguy81290
  
  
  gamrforlife baby 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBeardedGnome
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 9, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  This is the definitive version of Resident Evil 4, and the entire Resident Evil franchise. This 
 game has the most replay value of any game I've ever played, and the Wii edition adds even more 
 content. The main game has almost unlimited replay value, as each time you venture through you'll 
 be able to try different weapon combinations and new strategies.
  
  The Wii addition also comes with Assignment Ada from the gamecube version and Separate Ways from 
 the ps2 version. While Assignment Ada my not be worth replaying -- as it is more akin to a minigame 
 than a full game -- Separate Ways is an excellent supplement to the main game. It helps fill in some 
 inconsistencies you may have noticed in the the main game, and some you never really thought about 
 until you play through it. Ada now also has a knife in Assignment Ada -- appreciate it.
  
  There is also The Mercenaries which will provide you with hours upon hours of fun (and sometimes 
 frustrating) zombie killing action. There are four different levels and five different characters, 
 so it's easy to put many, many hours of your life into trying to obtain a five star rating on each 
 level with each person (those of you who would know why) .
  
  There are a few gameplay complaints I have, however. The main complaint is the new action commands. 
 I enjoy waving the wiimote to the left to dodge, that's fine. However, having to shake the wiimote 
 vigorously back and fourth to run, cut with the knife, swim, etc. It makes my arm tired! (They 
 fixed the money glitch in the room with two El Gigante, so now you have to kill them both if you 
 want all the money -- that's a lot of slashing) .
  
  I also like the costumes, because they give an otherwise common run through of the game a certain 
 novelty. I like it. However, if you wanted to try the special costume from the ps2 version (the 
 gangster/mob-boss outfit) you'll be disappointed. If you select that costume, you'll notice that 
 during the cut scenes Leon suddenly and inexplicably changes back into his normal cloths, then 
 after the scene he's back in his mob outfit as fast as he was out of it. This is visually really 
 annoying, although if you skip the cut scenes it'll be OK (except for the Krauser knife fight, 
 that could be extremely upsetting) .
  
  All in all, it's the best version of RE4 to date. If you have a Wii, go out and buy it, because 
 otherwise you're missing out. If you don't have a Wii, buy one if you see one, then get this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkhand44
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 9, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  This is the same game that first came out on the Gamecube and the Playstion 2, but in this instance 
 the feel is much more viseral. With the engaging gameplay it can easily suck a player in for one 
 great ride. If you have not played this game on any of the other systems pick it up on this one 
 it is a great value at only $29.99 and it is the best new game value out there for the length of 
 the game. This is a must have for anybody that has purchased a Wii and is looking for something 
 a little more adult than Warioware and not shovleware like Spiderman 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamers-heaven
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The entire RE4 storyline is there, and it's made all the more exciting by the Wii with 
 the motion-sensoring controller. This not only makes it much more enjoyable to shoot the upcoming 
 zombie-people, but it adds an element of realism into the game, as if you're really there. 10.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics aren't that decent on the Wii, but they're good enough to be getting on 
 with, comparing with that of the PS2 and Xbox versions. The could be improved, but you can still 
 tell who's a zombie, and who's not! 8.
  
  Sound: The music is key to the sheer creepiness of RE4 on the Wii. From the sinster music to the 
 noises made by the zombie people noticing and coming after you. If the music wasn't there, you 
 wouldn't be scared - but because it is there, you are! 10.
  
  Value: For anyone who likes a good shooter, if you're a fan of the Resident Evil games or not, 
 you'll most likely enjoy RE4. I'm not a fan of shooting games at all, but still, Resident Evil 
 really creeped me out, and not only did I have a good gaming experience, I felt I was getting my 
 money's worth. 9.
  
  Tilt: This game is recommended to all with a Wii, have fun! 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arnode
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  If you have the Wii buy this game no matter what!! Resident Evil 4 Wii Edition is by far one of 
 the best this year. The game makes great use of the wii remote. You can play through the game over 
 and over again and it is better each time. I would defiantly recommend this game to people who 
 have never played it on the Gamecube or the PS2. If you all ready have the game on an other console, 
 i would not get it. Plus this game is only $30. Lot of things to unlock in this game like mercenaries, and 
 a whole other campaign about other people. And agian, who ever has a wii get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 36O
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 8, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Right now, I honestly think the Wii only has around 5 truly great games and the rest ranging from 
 decent to horrible. Even worse is its lack of mature games and good shooters. And then comes Resident 
 Evil 4 Wii Edition. This game is just amazing, being released for the FOURTH time on multiple platforms, 
 its still going strong as the best action horror game. And for the wii, this is a miracle. The 
 controlls fit the controller perfect after some practice and the action is as gruesome as ever. 
 Although I have already beat this 2 years ago on the Gamecube, its still now in my top 10 games 
 of all time. The graphics (considering the rest of the stuff on the wii) are great and have that 
 awesome dark and evil tone. The sound and music fits the feel even better with even some cool effects 
 coming out of the wiimote. And to finish it is the great and original story it contains.
  
  If you have been looking for an action horror game for a next gen console, or better yet the wii, 
 look no further. But since the wii has no wii exclusive content (only what was on the ps2 and gc) 
 , if you own the ps2 version then you probably have no reason to purchase this. But I have come 
 back from the GCN version and this game feels just as it was my first playthrough. But if you love 
 Resident Evil or have never played #4 then this is a must buy especially so with its nice $29.99 
 price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadmeat59
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 8, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games i have ever played. This game runs great and looks great on 
 the wii . It has heaps of context and long fun game play . This game is put together so well . 
 the sound ,graphics and gameplay work so well. it has great shooting but also makes you think . 
 you have to manage how much ammo you have to win a big fight.. there is also puzzles to work out 
 . witch is not to hard i find there puzles are just right .
  
  in the game you must find a women and bring her back to the usa . the game is based in europe . 
 you have to save the women from a werid religon that turns people into zombie like people. .there 
 lord controlls them . one of the lords goals is to get ride of americas power on the world stage.
 
  
  you most stop him while saving the women at the same time . the game is scarying and action packed 
 it well worth the money. a great thing about the game for the wii is that its only 30$ . you cant 
 find a game like that great at that price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SopranosFan
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 8, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be up there with the greatest games, It has a good story, graphics, sound, and 
 control. It also has to have the best controls of any game, the Wii controls really let you feel 
 like you are part of the game, and sometimes the panic makes you make a mistake with aiming or 
 using the wrong weapon or turning the wrong way, which I am sure is the way it would really happen 
 if dozens of zombies were chasing after you. The bosses are also incredible, every single one of 
 them is creapy, and can be challenging some more than others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _N00b_for_life_
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 7, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  With all the new survival horror games being released for the xbox 360 and the ps3, much improved 
 visuals and AI are making it easier for more developers to blow resident evil 4 out of the water 
 in terms of scare factor . many games such as Condemed and F. E. A. R. successfully do what Resident 
 Evil 4 cannot do due to its re-release on the wii and not the other consoles, being the least powerful 
 of all of the new systems (graphically speaking) . in these other games, along with many others, 
 there are points where the AI will do incredibly intelligent and sudden things that will successfully 
 scare the s*** out of you, such as popping out from behind a construction sign with no warning 
 at all.... the lighting improvements also allow for a more creepy atmosphere that with keep you 
 on your toes at all times, and they make for an incredibly scary experience at times. however, 
 the real question here is.... does the re-release of resident evil 4 for the wii measure up to 
 the horror games on the 360 and ps3? the answer is yes. although this game was one that was released 
 over 2 years ago, it is just as creepy as ever. yes, it is true, there is little or no difference 
 in the graphic of this version and the gamecube version, but graphics are not always the most important 
 factor in a game. one thing that makes this game better than those other games is the fact that 
 it uses the wii-mote . blasting away peoples heads with a shotgun has never been so much fun. the 
 controls really work well too, almost as well, if not better than the gamecube version's controls. 
 and the good thing is that you can use three different control schemes for this game.... therefore, 
 if you decide that you do not like the controls of this version, you can either plug in your gamecube 
 controller, OR your classic controller and use one of those instead. in my opinion, this game was 
 the ONLY game for any of the last gen console games to push the system to its limits in terms of 
 graphics, and AI. not to mention it had a really great soundtrack and a controller layout that 
 really worked well. this game really holds up well on the wii too. not much could be done to make 
 this game better, because it was already a masterpiece the first time around......... in sum, this 
 game is as great as it was 2 years ago and it also is a great buy for fans of the series or newcomers. 
 if you have never played an RE game, you will have an easier time adjusting to the controls. if 
 you already own this game for either the ps2 or the gamecube you will also benefit from purchasing 
 this updated version. if you have the ps2 version, you will recieve a version with superior graphics, 
 and if you have the gamecube version, you will recieve a version that includes a lot of extra content.... 
 if you have both versions, you still get a new version that can be played with the wii remote...... 
 so everybody benefits regardless of what versions they have played before. the real reason that 
 you should go out and buy this game right away though is its price.... it is only $30 (really smart 
 on capcoms part) so it is already as cheap as one of those crummy games that you find in the bargain 
 bin at gamestop...... so now, the question is, would you rather pay $30 to play red steel or RE4? 
 i made my decision, i hope you make the same one.... you wont regret it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilmaycryrulz
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the best wii games up to date the sensor bar reads your aim perfectly the camra 
 is great it is just a plain good game and for those who hate it are probably just to wimmpy to 
 go to the first house in the game and kill the guy so ha. man now i can't wait for the next installment 
 resident evil umbrella chronicals. i think it is going to be like a house of the dead arcade game 
 but i won't say anything till it is out. o and i was just wondering i bought this game for 24.99$ 
 what about you guys message me and that is store price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naruske101
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 6, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Well i was one of those people who've never played the other 3 versions of the this game. Well 
 when i poped in the disc i was addicted to this game. The wiimote controls work really well for 
 this game especially the aiming the story is pretty good . Shooting nonzombies is really fun. The 
 game is also pretty challenging because usually have and ammo shortage and you die pretty easily. 
 The game also has good sound affects and has one of the best graphics on the wii which is kind 
 off sad since this has the same graphics as the gamecube versionwhich shows that the wii's graphics 
 haven't improved from last gen. So if you're looking for a good game for the wii you should go 
 buy this since it's only $30 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coltACP
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 6, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  Having been a massive Resident evil fan since 1996 i must say resident evil 4 is probably the best 
 in the series (but i will always love resident evil 2 as a close second) . I have this game for 
 gamecube from launch day and i will never forget the feelings it gave me playing through, one of 
 the best games i have ever played, and i have played several thousands over my 17 years playing 
 them.
  
  I got the Special tinned edition of the PS2 game and even got the PC version of the game. This 
 is the 4th version of this game and while i may be a little (just a little) tired of playing through 
 (i have completed them 100s of times especially on professional) the game is still as good as the 
 other versions. the controls i would say 'add' more than they detract, getting multiple headshots 
 is easier for novices and childs play for veterans, this makes the TMP the weapon of choice by 
 far and the shot gun, nothing more than a 'push back' gun. The aiming hasn't adversly affected 
 the game and the ganados actually do a bit more damage in this version to compensate for your improved 
 aiming speed. Content wise this is disapointing, it has nothing 'new' in it, just the controls 
 make it stand out from the other versions. I will bash Seperate ways too as it adds virtually nothing 
 to the story and lacks cohesion and effort that clearly went into the rest of the game (it has 
 always felt as tacked on, because it is) .
  
  Technically this game is 'almost' as good as the gamecube version, the sound is well implmented 
 the visuals rich in colour and atmosphere. Where the Wii version is let down is in the issues that 
 arose during porting the content, someone didn't pay much attention, because the seams in the the 
 levels are much more prominent than ever. By seams i mean you clearly see white lines along the 
 edges of some corners where the surfaces don't quite merge correctly, it is a minor gripe but it 
 is consistant through out the game, so it detracts for the overall feeling that the game has had 
 as much love and attention to it that other versions have (these seams aren't visible in the GC 
 version, nor the PS2 version) . Also the framerate dips are more noticeable, i don't know wether 
 this is from them trying to run it higher than 30 FPS or because they didn't spend long optimising 
 it for the Wii hardware, but the framerate stutters momentarily when in other versions it remains 
 silky smooth ( although all versions still drop frames towards the end when things get really hectic) . 
 All being said the faults are minor and the game is still as good as it ever was, given a choice 
 between versions, i would still go for the GC version (because the knife fighting Krauser on the 
 tower is easier due to the mechanics being seperate-on the Wii you constantly get the canned dodge 
 when trying to slash his face.... meaning using buttons is better-but you play the wii for the motion 
 sensing surely) , it had the most money, effort and love put into it and the 4th Wii version only 
 goes to reiterate this fact. But hey you only pay &pound;30 for this port, and the Wiicontrols 
 work very well (except the slight oversight in the knife fighting when dodgeing) . I hope that the 
 team (same guys who did the PS2 port-not the GC version unfortunatly) improve their use of the 
 Wii hardware for Umbrella chronicles, they can be let off a little for this one but that game better 
 deliver. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shunter10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 6, 2007 4:52 am PT
Review:  I havent been playing this long but it is excellent. Wasn't sure what a FPS would be like on the 
 Wii, and I held off getting Call of Duty due to poor reviews, but this has surpassed my expectations 
 and I love playing it. It is so engrossing, my best FPS experience since playing Halo about 2 years 
 ago. I was quite shocked by the violence I have to say and I'm 29, my girlfriend had a nightmare 
 after watching me play it! I think it should be more than a 15, but I m sure some gameheads who 
 have seen worse would disagree? Dont get me wrong, I am a huge fan of Shaun of Dead and all those 
 kinds of things but I just felt rather differently about this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackBauer1005
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  If you don't know what Resident Evil 4 is that you are a game noob as Resident Evil 4 has been 
 out for years now. The Gamecube version of Resident Evil 4 is still on the Wii version but has 
 some new extras that only the PS2 version had until now. The wii version now has extra costumers, 
 modes and weapons. The new modes in the game are great as there is more content and more gameplay 
 time. The story is set 6 years after the T-Virus Outbreak in Resident Evil 2 and Leon s Kennedy 
 is now all grown up. Leon now works as a elite agent and is sent to look for Ashley Graham the 
 Presidents daughter who has been kidnapped by a unknown group. Leon gets into even more trouble 
 then he did in RE2 which is bad news for Leon. The game is the best in the RE series so far as 
 Capcom has changed the camera angle to behind Leon every time in the game which helps you out a 
 lot. Also you now have a better set of weapons that can be upgraded through out the game. If you 
 think you have time for a eneimes to attack you in the game you are wrong as the enimes are smarter 
 and faster than the other RE games. The Wii controls on the game make the firing of weapons easier 
 than the other versions. Personal i find Resident Evil 4 less scary than the RE remake on the Gamecube. 
 This game is a must get for Resident Evil fans even if you own a copy of the Gamecube version you 
 have to get this for the extra content. The extra mode is a Ada mission which is good news for 
 all you Ada fans who like more girl power. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visi0naries
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Two and a half years ago from the release date of Resident Evil 4 for the Wii, there was the original 
 game. That was released for the GameCube, and it not only set the bar for action games and even 
 games in general, but it also set off a buzz... a buzz that made Resident Evil 4 the best game of 
 2005, and winning numerous awards from numerous sites and shows in the process. Unfortunately, 
 not all of it was good buzz. Fans of the series stomped the game apart due to its large departure 
 from the original games. It wasn't a truly heavy departure, as Capcom placed horror elements into 
 the game to please the original fans, but even that was not good enough, as the overwhelming differences 
 from the other games overshadowed the goodness of what Resident Evil was.
  
  Fast forward two and a half years later. With the success of Resident Evil 4, and despite all the 
 negative buzz on it, it received three ports. One for the Playstation 2, one for the PC, and one 
 for the Wii. This time around, the focus is on the Wii version. Having said that, the Wii version 
 has something that both the PS2 and PC versions don't have and probably never will - motion sensing 
 controls. You say, That's foolish! How can a game with dumb motion sensing controls be such an 
 awesome game with only the controls being the meat of the game? Well, first off it's not too difficult 
 to create an excellent experience with motion sensing controls, and I'll tell you right off the 
 bat that Capcom went with what they had to do, being very diligent into making the controls flexible 
 and suitable for all players. Secondly, despite the truth that the game is a port, it was already 
 a magnificent game to begin with. Capcom took advantage of a magnificent game, added new controls 
 to the game, and bam, we have a winner.
  
  Resident Evil 4 mentions that the game takes place in 2004. Again, we join Leon Scott Kennedy who 
 has been tasked by the President of the United States to find his missing daughter, Ashley Graham, 
 before it is too late. Umbrella is no more, so the whole story is basically started from scratch. 
 Leon is sent to an unknown location in Europe to investigate a sighting on Ashley. This leads him 
 to a village where not all seems to be fun and games. He soon learns that he's up against a group 
 of people responsible for experimenting with a parasite on this territory. From here, Leon must 
 battle his way through anything and everything to not only rescue Ashley from these forces, but 
 to also bring down the leader of the group and the parasite as well.
  
  If you've played any of the original Resident Evil's before Resident Evil 4, you'll be wondering 
 what's going on here. First things first, and that is that Resident Evil 4 features a lot of action, 
 more so than any Resident Evil game you've played. Back in the day you would usually see about 
 2 or 3 zombies in one area, but now you're coerced into taking down at least 3x that amount of 
 Ganados (who are the 'zombies' of this game) . Not only that, but we're not playing with an overhead 
 cam view anymore. Instead, it has been swapped for an over-the-shoulder view for easier aiming, 
 especially for an action-oriented game such as Resident Evil 4. If you don't wish to use your guns, 
 you can utilize the action button. If at the bottom of the screen there is an option to press a 
 button with a command next to it, it's always a good idea to do. Whether it would be kicking Ganados 
 high and far, thrusting yourself out of windows or even suplexing certain enemies, it's all here. 
 This is one of the better features I've seen in any action game, and inserting it into modern games 
 wouldn't be such a bad idea now.
  
  Anyway, let's get right to main core of the game - the controls. No longer are there laser sights 
 on all your guns. Instead, a reticule is placed on-screen, signifying where you will be aiming 
 when you bring up your gun. The reticule will flicker red when it has an enemy in sights, green 
 when there is no target, and will swoon a gray color when not in use. In addition to that, you 
 don't need to aim and move the analog stick left and right to get a shot. The simple use with the 
 Wiimote's controls gets the job done, very quickly. You aim with the Wiimote, press B to draw your 
 weapon, and press A to fire your weapon, which sounds very easy to get used to, and in fact, it 
 is. Knifing and reloading can all be done by flicking the remote. One problem that kept irking 
 me is that I am unable to move the camera by moving the reticule to the edge of the screen, which 
 was something that was possible in the original. Perhaps this was to make the game a little more 
 difficult, but given the fact that with the easy controls, the game is just a little too easy.
 
  
  What's still great with Resident Evil 4 is the weapon selection. There's a good deal amount of 
 weapons available in the game to mix and match. The one who stocks you up with these weapons is 
 the Merchant, who also will accept your goodies you have claimed along the way. Coincidentally, 
 not only does he sell just weapons, but also different upgrades for all weapons. Usually, the weapons 
 simply increase firepower or speed, which isn't much to begin with. It's as if Capcom just threw 
 the upgrades all together in a day and put them in the game to add a bit of a strategy element 
 to it, hoping that with the increase of difficulty through the game, upgrading weapons would be 
 significant. It's not a bad thing, but it could of been something better.
  
  Enemy A. I. in Resident Evil 4 hasn't changed much at all, except with maybe a few more enemies 
 on-screen. When you knock down a ladder, be prepared for it to be set back up. If you lock yourself 
 in a house, be prepared to fight the enemies through the windows. The A. I. is wondrous at times, 
 but I will agree that they can possess stupid abilities. One issue occurred when I was fighting 
 my way through the village and one of the Ganados kept spinning around in circles in which I had 
 to grab his attention by firing at him to make him come over to you. Of course, this didn't happen 
 all the time, but it was a little funny and stupid. Some of the later enemies don't really change 
 at all as well, as they all just succumb slower thanks to their increased durability. Otherwise, 
 the enemies will keep you on their toes, throwing pitchforks and all.
  
  Separate Ways was the only big mini-game to not appear on a Nintendo console, but now it is here. 
 The PS2 and PC versions got their fair share, and now the Wii version gets something that it was 
 hoping for. Separate Ways puts you in control of Ada Wong and her travels in the same time as Leon 
 was doing his. Lots of exclusive content is available in Separate Ways that was not available in 
 the main game, but it's not so exclusive when two other versions have it. On top of that you have 
 the usual Mercenaries and Assignment Ada mini-games. I believe that adding extra content for the 
 Wii in addition to the controls wouldn't have been a far cry, but Capcom went the other way. This 
 was surely a letdown for players hoping for exclusive content.
  
  Resident Evil 4 looked good back in 2005, but it's starting to show its age already. There's not 
 much to see here if you've already saw it in 2005. Don't get me wrong, when Resident Evil 4 was 
 released back in '05 it enforced itself with pretty graphics and top-notch visuals, but I really 
 can't say the same now because so many other games outclass it. It doesn't show off the Wii's potential 
 power at all, which is a real big shame. Either way, this is how it ranks. The visuals are nice 
 to look at, with the explosions and fire all being a part of the creation. Leon looks amazing, 
 but I have had issues with the Ganados and the environment looking like low quality crap. It's 
 not enough to really hurt the score, but it should be noted. This may have not been the case back 
 then, but compare it to now and you have yourself a different story. Cutscenes look a bit grainy 
 but otherwise are all right.
  
  There's not much wrong with the audio, but in some cases it has the same issues as the visuals. 
 The game doesn't have much music to please your horror ears. In the original games the music was 
 quite eerie but now, while you do get the occasional eerie sounds and grunts, it's just not enough 
 to hold up to other horror games out, which makes sense because it's tough to classify Resident 
 Evil 4 as a horror game. But for what it is, the music isn't too memorable. As far as the yelling 
 Ganados are concerned, their clear voices do say a lot, and that goes for the voice acting as well. 
 Sure, the voice acting may be a bit on the impetuous side and Leon may be spurting out one-liners 
 from time to time, but you can't deny the fact that the actors worked their part to create an excellent 
 performance.
  
  An addictive game such as Resident Evil 4 surely has a high replay value, and without a doubt, 
 that statement is correct. The main game will fill you in on about 15 hours of real gameplay, while 
 Separate Ways could potentially take you 3 to 5 hours of real gameplay. Add on to that the Mercenaries 
 and Assignment Ada mini-games which will eat up a chunk of your time. The game also highly accepts 
 that you play the main game all over again a couple more times to be able to buy more weapons. 
 These weapons are usually powerful and will make the game even more easy than it already is, but 
 it's only really for fun when it boils down to it. Quite frankly, there's a lot to do here after 
 the game has been completed, and even more so Capcom extends the replay value by adding in weapons 
 that can only be bought after completing certain tasks. Again, as stated earlier, the lack of any 
 exclusive content for the Wii version of Resident Evil 4 is a disappointment.
  
  Even after two and a half years, Resident Evil 4 still holds really well to the competition when 
 it comes to what matters most on the Wii - the controls. The controls simply breathe better life 
 into an already phenomenal game. And it's not the controls that are doing all the talking. While 
 it may just be a port, the action-oriented gameplay and the variety of things to do all jam into 
 this box of glory. Some goodies such as Separate Ways will be what its worth for Nintendo fans, 
 now that they have the chance to play this mini-game. At times, the game can get incredibly and 
 unrealistically easy, and there are some minor issues with the controls that are explained in the 
 review, but other than that, Resident Evil 4 has all the right stuff going for it. Whether you 
 have not played the game on any system or not, it's a duty to play this on the Wii to experience 
 the controls. They truly are the real deal here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LORDMUFFIN1
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Wow! The Wii Edition Of Resident Evil 4 is a Fresh {i said fresh} Version Of Capcoms Resident Evil 
 series. The game puts you as Government Agent Leon Scott Kennedy. His Mission Is to rescue the presidents 
 daughter Ashley Bush {im just joking it's Graham} And Bring Her back safely to the U. S and A. The 
 game has new motion sensetive controls and all the features the PS2 Version had. There really was 
 no update in graphics this time around, but at least there wasn't a downgrade like in The PS2 and 
 PC versions. The guns look in the Atacche case was updated and so was the sound! There is blood 
 and gore and sexual themes in this game but if your old enough to play and have a WII it is a definite 
 Must Buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steel_Rain777
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  When Resident Evil 4 first hit the GC back in early 2005 many people where shocked to see the Resident 
 Evil series to have an entirely different game play mechanic completely different from it's predecessors 
 . And to me this was a wise move by Capcom to completely change the formula of RE series and wind 
 with a totally unique and engaging experience that even haters of the series can appreciate. Since 
 then, the game has had a total of three remakes one for the PS2, which had additional bonus content 
 that made GC owners peeved, A Pc version, which lacked mouse support which made very annoying to 
 play unless you had a controller. And the wii version, which included all the content from both 
 the GC and PS2 versions content as well as new and improved Wii controls which take advantage of 
 the wii's motion-sensing technology making an entirely different experience even for those who've 
 played it on past systems.
  
  The game is unchanged from the original, still containing it's engrossing storyline and varied 
 adventure. The game will at least take you 15+ hours to complete on your first play-through, making 
 the longest game in the RE series. The graphics, mind you are still pretty good, don't hold up 
 as well compared to other next-gen titles due to the fact they are over 2 years old. But the Wii 
 takes advantage of 480p and 16:9 support which is a plus for HDTV owners. A long with the main 
 game, you are able to unlock new costumes, weapons, additional play-throughs, 2 mini-games, Assignment 
 Ada, which is good little adventure not to long once you complete it you may not play it sgain. 
 And The Mercenaries which allows you to pick 5 distinct characters each with their own skill and 
 weapons to tackle 4 different stages each with own enemies and dangers in an attempt to get the 
 highest score in the time alotted. A very fun mode for those who want the absolute best score. 
 Some type of online leaderboards and/or rankings would've made this mode that much more addictive. 
 It also had Separate Ways, a different side of the RE4 storyline were you play Ada. This mode itself 
 is quite long, not as long as the main campaign, but still a pretty good length. All-in-all this 
 game is a definate purchase for the 30 dollar price tag, which is a steal for this great game. 
 I recommend anyone who still hasn t played this yet definately pick it up or at least rent, Resident 
 Evil and Action-adventure fans alike 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Judah6
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  I love this Gotdamn Game I just started Playing Yesterday and This Game is no Piece of Cake Why 
 I say that Because the people you ecounter in the game is not joke you always have to watch you 
 back all they will come behind you and take you head off just like the guy with the chainshaw. 
 The people all whatever the hell it is it's really intelligent how they know when to pick up a 
 latter and climb up to get you, unlike the other resident evil games when they just move around. 
 This game really takes advantage of the Wiimote when you point with it you can easy shoot them 
 down and swing it to use the knife and brake boxes The Graphics is just a little tad better on 
 the Wii and plus They have the extra missions from the PS2 version all I can say is if you have 
 a Wii you must pick this game up even if you played it all finish the Game it's a must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smeghead83
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  Now i gave this game a full 10.0, and why you may ask? well because this
  ladies and gentleman is as good as you can get to perfection.
  
  now while there is no Wii-specific 
 content to speak of and if you have
  played the NGC or PS2 versions of this game then there will be nothing
  new here for you.
  
 But please dont let that put you off because this game not only demestrats
  how well the Wii can be used for 3rd/1st person aiming in a game it also
  shows what its all 
 about.
  
  set in 2004 you play the Role of Leon S. Kenedy a special forces agent
  sent in to find the US prez daughter who has gone missing somewhere
  in an isolated part of spain, 
 and soon find yourself thrown into some of the
  most intense battles and boss fights ever seen on a console or any game for that matter.
  
 
  Long story short if you have Wii and what a good... NO brilliant game then
  pick this up right away 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamerhk
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 18, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great Gameplay/Controls, takes advantage of the unique Wii controllers, Amazing visuals, 
 extraordinary sound effects/voice acting, awesome storyline, and a ton of intense, thrilling action 
 that will keep you addicted for hours and hours.
  
  The Bad: Controls can be a bit awkward at first.
  
  Resident Evil 4 for Wii is one of the most 
 amazing games I've ever played. I just cant really describe how amazed I am. It always seems to 
 have you at the edge of you seat -- its intense, bloody, gory, scary, jaw-dropping, and so much more. 
 It is also very challenging, but that is a good thing. When you first begin playing the game, the 
 controls can definitely feel a little awkward -- it took me a little while to get used to them. But, 
 once you get used to them, the game gets a bit easier. In terms of visuals, RE4 is one of the most 
 impressive games I've ever seen -- its unbelievable. Sound is also amazing. Overall, RE4 is just 
 a very unique game that you just can't compare with other games. This is a game worth playing, 
 especially on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digxxbitty
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 4, 2007 11:07 pm PT
Review:  I never got a chance to play the GC or PS2 version of Resident Evil 4 but I had heard many praises, 
 so I had to pick up the Wii edition. I found it thrilling, challenging and down right scary at 
 times. It's a unique type of game (I know its a remake, but RE4 in general) that will suck you 
 right in.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The majority of gameplay is spent backing yourself into a corner and blowing the heads 
 off approaching zombies, which is surprisingly fun. At first I found the aiming/shooting technique 
 unusual and uncomfortable, but I soon adjusted. You can't move while you aim, you hold the B-button 
 and point the Wii-mote. A is fire. RE4 can pull it off though since the zombies are usually slow 
 moving. That said, I'll guarantee they'll make you jump more than once. Regenerating giants quickly 
 closing in, googly-eyed monsters spawning from what you thought was dead and unexpected attacks 
 having you franticly shaking the Wii-mote. To top it off, ammo is always an issue, so you'll have 
 to pick your weapon wisely and aim accurately. Utilizing kicks and your knife are good strategies 
 when running low. Combined with the ever spooky environments, it's sure to get your heart pounding, 
 especially if you're playing alone in the dark basement. The other mechanics of the game run smoothly, 
 I'm a fan of the inventory case. RE4 takes a different approach by giving you an attache case with 
 a limited number of squares in which to compact all your stock. You're going to have to organize 
 to maximize your capacity. It's a nicely set up system that serves it's purpose.
  
  GRAPHICS: You can't expect top-notch graphics on the Wii, but I found the them detailed and quite 
 good looking. The zombies are filthy, the monsters are slimy, the environments are grungy (but 
 well crafted mind you) . It's all appropriate and it set's a tense mood. SOUND: The sound can be 
 one of the freakiest parts. You may be strolling down a silent hallway when all the sudden you 
 hear the deep voice of a zombie shout, a scream from behind you and menacing music slowing getting 
 faster. You know you're in for it now! The rest of the sound is good, whether it's the splatter 
 of a skull or Leon talking, it's clear and realistic.
  
  VALUE: It's a good 20 hour game your first time through, and as with any game, there are unlockables 
 and bonus features after completing the main game. These include characters, outfits, missions, 
 mini-games etc. I think the main value in RE4 is the re-playability. It's one of those games that 
 you can play over and over, I mean, who gets tired of owing undead zombies? I know people who have 
 beaten this game 10+ times and still love it. When you do restart your game, you'll find you have 
 retained all your weapons and items from the previous file, making the beginning stages very enjoyable.
 
  
  TILT: I could barely put this game down. It kept me interested and on the edge of my seat (since 
 I was playing alone in the dark basement) . I was fascinated in the story and I wanted to progress. 
 I was also very surprised, even during difficult parts and boss battles, I never got frustrated, 
 not once. I just wanted to continue, retry. It was great.
  
  Overall, RE4 is a great game from start to finish. It is captivating and nail-biting. A must buy 
 for Wii owners interested in a satisfying slaughter and horrifying adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umd1998
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Dont call it a Wii-make. That disparaging term was coined to describe hordes of low-quality video 
 games ported to Nintendos unique console. Game companies, hoping to turn a quick profit by tapping 
 the Wiis surging popularity, have flooded the market with terrible remakes that have poor motion-sensing 
 controls tacked on.
  But thats not the case with Capcoms Resident Evil 4 Wii Edition  its actually the ultimate 
 version of what many deemed the 2005 game of the year.
  When RE4 debuted two years ago, it wowed gamers with its revamped control scheme  previous titles 
 in the creepy horror-survival series were infamous for handling like a tank in rush-hour traffic.
 
  The Wii version has improved the controls again. One of the few drawbacks of RE4 on the GameCube 
 and PlayStation 2 was the sluggish gun aiming, making it hard to execute bullet-conserving headshots. 
 On the Wii, Capcom implemented free-look targeting with the Wii-mote: just point and shoot. Its 
 a stunning new level of accuracy  gamers will be reminded of using their mouse in a PC shooter 
  and it eases the games legendary difficulty.
  The motion controls also make interactive scenes more fun. In previous versions of RE4, occasional 
 on-screen prompts required quick button-mashing to avoid being crushed by a boulder or stepped 
 on by a giant. In the new game, players shake the Wii-mote for many tasks  reloading is literally 
 a snap (of the wrist) . It really raises the immersion factor, making the experience that much more 
 realistic and frightening.
  Two years ago, the GameCube RE4 was the most visually stunning version. Then the PlayStation 
 2 port followed, with extra missions, unlockables and true widescreen-TV support.
  The Wii version has all the best traits of both, as well as the improved controls, and retails 
 for $20 less than most Wii games.
  At its core, RE4 for the Wii is still a lengthy, atmospheric action-adventure game that will 
 scare the bejeezus out of gamers.
  And now we can use our trusty Wii-mote to gun down the hordes of evil zombies. If only we could 
 do the same to all those lame Wii-makes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutta27
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 4, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  This is an action horror game for the wii, altough this has been on 3 other platforms before and 
 is only a port, in my opinion it is not just the best resident evil 4 but the best wii game so 
 far.
  
  You play as Leon S. Kennedy a survivor from racoon city who has gone on to work for the president. 
 Leon has the job of looking after the prsidents family, but just before he starts his job the Presidents 
 daughter Ashley has gone missing so he is sent to a small villiage in spain to investigate the 
 rumor she has been kidnapped and being held there.
  
  Well the gameplay in this is very similar to the other Resident evil 4's fast action horror, it 
 is a 3rd person shooter where the emphesis is on the action. This game is hugely different to previous 
 resident evils in my oppion because all old resident evils emphesised survival horror and problem 
 solving, in this game puzzles are at a minimum and the puzzles you do get are very simple in comparison 
 and never really tax teh player. The way this sets this aside from the other versions of this game 
 are the great controls, you use the wii mote to aim your gun and use your knife and the nunchuck 
 controller to move leon and make him run. This in my opinion is a great use of the old control 
 system and although it may take a little time to get used to it becomes second nature and when 
 i comes down to it it is allot easier than the previous versions.
  
  The graphics are poor but what do you expect for a gamecube port. Anyway this is soon forgotten 
 when you get into the game. The sound is very well used, eeire when needed and fast paced when 
 you have to run from a boulder or thing liek that. In conclusin i think this is teh best Resident 
 evil game and the best wii game so far, I cant wait to see another resident evil game to come to 
 the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegameboxfreak
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  i first laid my eyes (and fingers) on resident evil 4 on the Gamecube few weeks after it release 
 in 2005 and now it coming back on the Wii and I'm impress! the new innovated controls really helps 
 make this game feel new all over again, what really surprised me it the even 2 years later with 
 new game consoles the graphics seem to still hold up pretty well to current games like Gears of 
 War or DiRT. and those tired of Resident evil for the Gamecube will be please to see new weapons, 
 extras, including a whole new side story base on Ada during Leons mission. plus for only 20 bucks 
 this game a really steal for anyone looking for a more adult game for there Wii, so inclusion if 
 you have a Wii and never played or have, stop torching your self and pick up this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rennik_l
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2007 4:20 am PT
Review:  I had written a review for the GC RE4, gave it a ten, and I still stand by that. Now I have the 
 Wii version, and after beating the main game I have decided to write a review on this version.
 
  
  I'll skip the story and idea of the core of the game, since only those who have been in a coma 
 for 2 years wouldn't know about it, everyone else has. It is my personal opinion that the GC version 
 looked better on a wii than the GC, and I see a slight (on standard tv) improvement on that, in 
 english the Wii Edition is the best looking, if only by a tad, it's still the GC engine, and that 
 goes a long way compared to the PC version (the worst) and the PS2 version (a good alternative 
 last year) . The sound shines more here than in the gamecube version as well. The sounds of your 
 guns being reloaded or setting up for the next shot (rifle, shotgun, etc) and the knife swoosh 
 sound come out of the wii-mote. The sounds aren't super loud (even on full volume) and don't deminish 
 the same sound through the tv, it's not overused and really immerses the game more than the GC 
 version.
  
  Gameplay is this version's most promising aspect, instead of fumbling around with an unsteady lasersight 
 (which worked great on the GC) you now aim yourself, making it more steady shooting, when you keep 
 your cool, panic, and your aim is hindered. The game also has a very nice Search knife It's a wonderful 
 feature when needing to conserve ammo or open boxes or barrels or disarm bear traps. The interactive 
 cutscenes also have gotten a wii bit of treatment (pun intended) . Actions such as sprinting and 
 swimming are now shaking the wii-mote. Dodging is either A+B, or a swipe of the wii-mote. Turning 
 around quickly (the 180) takes a moment to get used to but it works. Aiming is done by well aiming, 
 and the analog stick is used to turn the camera, compared to other shooter types, this seems a 
 tad complex at the beginning, but it works best.
  
  The game comes with all of the ps2 extras, breathing more gameplay options to keep the game alive, 
 even if your first runthrough (as an experienced player as about 10 hours [took me 13 hours, 33 
 minutes and 43 seconds to beat the wii version my first time] and inexperienced players about 20 
 hours] seems short. Overall this version is the ultimate version, if you have a wii, pay the 30 
 bucks for this game, even if you own the gamecube version, don't like the wii controls? Play it 
 with a GC controller or classic controller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QueenOfGaming
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  I've only played the original PS version of Resident Evil. I just can't stand the controls. I had 
 heard about RE4 for the Wii and was very happy. I preordered the game and finished it up in a week. 
 I wish all RE games could use the Wii remote. It was so much fun to aim and shoot as if I were 
 really shooting instead of trying to aim an analog stick hoping it would aim to the right spot 
 while worrying this is taking too long I'm about to be attacked. Walking was just like most games, 
 no tank controls (IN LOVE WITH THAT ALONE) . Plus all the extras that the PS2 version had are great, 
 I love the Ada storyline, it ties in some small loose ends with the main story.
  As for the game itself, it was a lot of fun, the storyline kept me playing just to find out what 
 happens next. There were a few times I thought the story was starting to get a bit out there but 
 then it went back to center a short time later. The graphics are really good as well, there were 
 only a few grainy background items which were the norm for last gen consoles but nothing to complain 
 about at all. I know the Wii can't handle the next gen graphics but I really hope being that Capcom 
 is really into the Wii and they have said they will be focusing on them that hopefully they will 
 make a scaled down version of RE5 to play on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vampiremoose12
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 3, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Oh Resident Evil my first true video game love, I really love hte resident evil series and this 
 game is possibly the best, the way capcom revolutionised the controls and gameplay made this a 
 good game, it is good to playa agian so you can get all hte weapons and such, I just have to much 
 fun shooting wierd spanish speaking creature people in the head, Its a very good stress reliever 
 and will leave you wanting more, any fan of the seroies will fall head over heels with this game, 
 in fact anyone who loves shooters will, the bosses are mind blowing (really a giant fish monster?) , 
 the weapons are awesome, This game is the closest to perfect as anything can be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WGR_Darrin
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 3, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Where do I start? If you haven't played RE4 yet, or at least heard of it, you've obviously been 
 living under a rock. The best game for the Gamecube, which then became a great port to the PS2, 
 is now the definitive action game for the Wii, end of discussion.
  
  Don't come into this one expecting 360-like graphics... it's a port of a Gamecube/PS2 game, and 
 it looks the part, though slightly spiffied-up. It's not a bad thing... it's one of the best-looking 
 Wii games right now, to be honest. Just keep in mind that high-def won't do you much good.
  
  I won't spoil the story for you, but the added Wii-mote controls make for a great example of 
 how a normal game would be played on the Wii... the aiming reticule makes things easier this time 
 around, while providing some amazingly accurate coordination. The quick-time action sequences feel 
 like they were made for the Wii, and the addition of the formerly-PS2-exclusive Separate Ways and 
 Mercenaries modes are extra sweet.
  
  There's not really much more than that. Do you like action/adventure? Want to spend at least 20 
 hours with your Wii this week? Want to buy the (basically) Ultimate Edition of RE4 for only $30? 
 Then step up, grab a shotgun, and let's go (not) zombie hunting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McPwned
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 3, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  As I had never played a Resident Evil game before, I was weary of picking this title up for the 
 GameCube or PC. Many friends had recommended it, but I was still not convinced. It wasn't until 
 the release of the forty-dollar Wii edition, coupled with the urging of one friend in particular, 
 that I finally decided to purchase this game.
  
  It turns out that my friends couldn't be more right.
  
  While the controls were rather tricky 
 for me at first, and the concept that, unlike in any other game I've played, MY HEAD COULD BE CHOPPED 
 CLEAN OFF, were a bit off-putting at first, this game has enamoured me. I've come to appreciate 
 the fact that the protagonist is human and vulnerable to... having his head being eaten in one 
 bite by a parasite slash giant insect thing.
  
  Being a fan of puzzler-shooters, like the Metroid Prime series and Half-Life 2, RE4 has plenty 
 to enjoy. Kicking a villager's head into exploding is thoroughly satisfying, I must say. And looking 
 up Ashley's skirt is most amusing. I AM NOT A PERVERT, 'KAY?
  
  All-in-all, RE4 is a fantastic game. The only detracting point would be the controls, which a tad 
 tricky at first and the inability to move at all while in aiming mode is less than ideal. Not even 
 this can sour the spectacular game that is RE4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trker91
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  RE4 was released two years ago and helped define an generation of gaming. The Wii version of RE4 
 is significantly more fun to play then the original. There is no easy way to describe why the controls 
 in the Wii edition make such an improvement, except to say that they are more intuitive. Developers 
 looking to make original games for the Wii will be paying close attention to this game if they 
 plan to incorporate shooting. With a price of thirty dollars it is easily recommended to those 
 who have already played the game, and a must own for those who have not. This was the perfect game 
 to incorporate the Wiimote. Aiming with the controller will improve your accuracy and remove any 
 frustration from the original. In the end RE4 Wii edition succeeds in being more fun than the original. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blur35mm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2007 5:40 am PT
Review:  This is a fast paced action game that plays superbly on a 90 diagonal Sanyo 720p projector. The 
 Wii shows off the incredible intuitive control system and makes this game so much fun to point, 
 shoot, and explore.
  
  Capcom hit an A+++ with the control system for this game and other developers should learn from 
 them.
  
  Playing this on the Wii is like no other experience and really makes you feel part of the world. 
 The graphics hold up very well and make you realize that it is not the graphics that set the game 
 apart, rather the immersive control system.
  
  The only negative to this game is that the castle sequences are very long and drawn out and get 
 repetitive over and over. Congrats Mr. Leon, you have 9 lives it seems. Congrats Mr. Leon, you 
 have survived yet again. Congrats Mr. Leon, you are a clever American that doesn't die.
  
  Ok, you get the point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valdarez
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 3, 2007 2:28 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 was first released on the GameCube several years back, but a couple of years on 
 the shelf and a port to the Wii have not hurt the game in the slightest. The graphics are still 
 superb, the sound effects and Voice Overs excellent, and the storyline top notch. With horror and 
 suspense games, it's not one thing that makes or breaks the game, it's a lot of little things from 
 the lighting, to the camera angles, to the timing of events, and Resident Evil 4 does all of these 
 little things well. It's as if the game were designed by a brilliant Hollywood producer who knew 
 exactly what to show and when to show it in order to illicit the desired emotion from his audience. 
 The game was an absolute delight to play from beginning to end, and even the extra content added 
 on such as the 'Separate Ways' storyline with Ada was fun to play.
  
  What surprised me the most about this game was the way the new Wii controls were used. I was afraid 
 that the targeting wouldn't be sensitive enough to shoot monsters, and that the control of the 
 character would be difficult. After just a couple of minutes of playing, all of those concerns 
 were dismantled. The Wii controls are what make this game fun to play. Controlling the main characters 
 movement is flawless. Aiming is dead on. Reloading is done with the flick of the wrist. Pulling 
 up a map is a one button deal. The control mechanism could not have been more perfect or better 
 implemented.
  
  The storyline in the game is amazing, and not because it's the best story of the Resident Evil 
 4 series, because it most definitely is not. However, the way the story progresses, the way you 
 learn little bits and pieces and it all just fits couldn't have been better executed. The Voice 
 Over talent is some of the best work to be found in a game, and it's extremely refreshing to see 
 the character's movements and mouthing actually reflect what's being said. All in all the storyline 
 keeps you enthralled, and whenever the storyline lacks depth, the presentation is there to deliver 
 far beyond the reach of the story itself.
  
  This is by far the best game to be found on the Wii to date. If you haven't played this game on 
 the Wii, then do yourself a favor a go grab a copy. At $29.99, you'd have to be one of the infected 
 to pass it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bokan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  There's not much that can be said about this game that hasn't already been said in the GC/PS2 versions, 
 but it's just simply put, THE best version of this game to date. And if you don't own RE4 for any 
 other system already, then buy this. Even if u have beaten it.
  
  The entire premise of this version is for mainly the GC owners that got SHAFTED of the extra features 
 that the PS2 version was given. Now the Nintendo fans get the extra features, which although not 
 overwhelming, put a nice touch on the game as a whole. Then the Wii controls come in, and are beyond 
 a shadow of a doubt the most comfortable and perfect control scheme possible for this game. the 
 B trigger places the into aim, then you simply point the Wii-mote and hit A. The possibly only 
 downside to the controls that I felt SLIGHTLY was the knife, which you just had to swing the Wii-mote, 
 it not only felt stupid, but the auto-aim made it effortless, a little too much so. Overall, the 
 controls made me want to play through the game again, even though I beat it on the GC like 5 times 
 already, it's simply a new feeling. The controls make my aim more precise and I felt better when 
 i made those difficult shots. Overall, Worth the Buy if you have not owned it before, and even 
 worth the buy if you owned it on the GC, as I did. Given, if you were a PS2 owner with the game. 
 You may want to consider whether it's worth the 15-25 dollars after you sell your PS2 version, 
 simply for better controls, and frankly, I'd have to say yes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathanlol
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Having played this game on the Gamecube and the PlayStation 2, I had high expectations. And to 
 my delight, Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition delivered! The graphics weren't breathtaking, but they 
 were nothing short of great. While considering it's a port from a 2005 game, the graphics hold 
 up very nice. The gameplay is where this game really shines, although the movement takes a while 
 to get used to. I had my doubts at first, but I really enjoyed the shooting system on Resident 
 Evil 4: Wii Edition. The game really utilizes the remote's ability to output sound. The extra sound 
 from the remote really makes a difference. The story was exciting and easy to follow, but a little 
 cliche. I had a great experience playing this game. Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition is practically 
 a steal for thirty dollars. All in all, Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition is a sweet game that shouldn't 
 be missed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K_u_F
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  I've already reviewed this on the GC but now I've played it on the Wii its just too good to ignore. 
 The already amazing game has somehow managed to have been enhanced into an even better game. Forget 
 the fact that its the same game, only has a few new extra modes and has the same graphics, its 
 still the greatest game ever made and the controls create a much more in-your-face, innovatice 
 ans scary game. So forget your social life because i can guarantee it will take over your life.
 
  So if you only play one game today make sure its this, in fact play it all day everyday. You won't 
 be dissapointed at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKoop
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 2, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  Another Resident Evil 4 on another platform, it doesnt get old though. When I first heard about 
 RE4 on the Wii I was so excited and who wasnt? Your Wii mote practically acting as a light gun, 
 the sheer sense of power and all that jazz.
  
  Graphics- The GC version of RE4 looked sheer bliss everything from backgrounds to environments 
 to the huge colossal bosses, the Wii edition is no different Im not going to mention the PS2 version 
 simply because it doesnt cut it compared to either of Nintendos versions. The Wii edition is 
 the best looking though, simply because it has more power (albeit not a lot more) but theres something 
 that makes it stand out. With this added power I found that more enemies could fit onto the screen 
 at once making it look and feel more like you were in danger, and with the added depth in the environment 
 it felt and played better on the whole.
  
  Gameplay- Well in RE4 its hard to know where to start with gameplay, lets try the controls A 
 complete overhaul thanks to the Wii-mote. Remember playing Time Crisis? Or Virtua Cop? Well RE4 
 and the Wii-mote bring this aspect together so its not on rails or an FPS for that matter but 
 it does bode well with its third person stance, taking head shots is so much easier now, picking 
 where you want to hit your enemy and actually being able to execute it thanks to the response time. 
 OK so it does make it slightly easier but ammo in RE4 is scarce and needs to be treated like gold 
 so you dont go firing at will instead think about what youre going to do. Using your knife is 
 an option and by shaking the nun-chuck you can do so and its recommended by all means. Apart from 
 the controls not much else is new here except if you played the GC version but never got round 
 to the PS2 one theres a few unlockables youll be pleasantly surprised with.
  
  Sound- Well RE4 never lacked good old wholesomeness in sound, from every door opening to the sound 
 of distant enemies getting you in there sights and calling for back up. Also the Wii-mote speaker 
 giving off reloading sounds from your weapon and the swish of your knife. Wind, rain and just 
 general spookiness all culminates for a remarkable soundtrack youll want surround sound for; I 
 couldnt find a flaw anywhere.
  
  Value- RE4 isnt a full price title due to the multiple releases on various platforms its had 
 (thankfully) but with improved looks and added bonus content, not too mention the control over 
 haul RE4 is definitely value for money, regardless whether you own it on a different platform or 
 have played it before its an experience youll want to re-live again. With all the extras thrown 
 in it definitely has re-play value and for the price no-one can complain.
  
  Do I recommend RE4 Wii Edition? Ina word. Definitely whether rits your first, second or third 
 time through it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheik_n_Zelda
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 1:25 am PT
Review:  I can recall only three GameCube games off the top of my head that were hyped to the ends of the 
 earth, Super Smash Bros. Melee, Tales of Symphonia and Resident Evil 4. Let's focus on that last 
 one for this shpiel. Capcom, the creator of franchises such as Devil May Cry, Street Fighter and 
 many more, had quite the relationship with the Big N last generation. The little purple box received 
 every major release of the RE series, with RE0 being exclusive, along with RE4, even if only at 
 the time. Over two years after its initial distribution, the reinvented survival-horror masterpiece 
 has managed to land on four different platforms. The final happens to be none other than Wii, and 
 thankfully, not much has changed with its overall quality.
  
  It would honestly surprise me if you didn't know about RE4, fan or not, but just incase, here's 
 a VERY brief synopsis. Players control hero of RE2, Leon S. Kennedy, who has one simple mission. 
 Infiltrate a remote village in rural Europe, locate the president's missing daughter, Ashley Graham, 
 and bring her home safely. Of course it hardly IS simple, as you soon discover that there is an 
 army of villagers ready to take you out by any means necessary, known as The Ganados. Of course 
 there's a sinister plot deep inside, what else?
  
  Alright, now with that out of the way, how does the fourth release of a 2005 critically acclaimed 
 game fare on Wii? Very well it does, being the best of the lot for a few different reasons. The 
 first of which is that it features all the content across all the previous RE4s. Separate Ways 
 and Assignment Ada, side modes for the sexy and daring Ada Wong, are present after you complete 
 the main mission with Leon. In addition to that, the hidden weapons and costumes previously only 
 available in the PS2 version are now in the hands of Nintendo fans. There is also a true widescreen 
 mode that gamers who love making use of that tv functionality can enjoy. Finally, and of course 
 the most obvious, is that the Wii remote and nunchuk give RE4 one very nice gameplay upgrade.
 
  
  You don't have to be a RE fan to enjoy the game, as it doesn't feature a heavy connection to past 
 series installments. That makes it all the more worthwhile for those that haven't had the chance 
 to play yet, or actually have and want a better experience. Plus it really kicks butt that it retails 
 for only $30. Managing Mr. Kennedy with the Wii controllers does take a few minutes to initially 
 become acclimated to, due to the now expected pointer-driven camera control not being there, but 
 even then it's just not hard. The nunchuk's analog controls a good deal RE4 WE, including Leon's 
 regular movement as well as looking when your weapon is drawn. With the remote, you hold B to ready 
 your gun and point to manipulate the onscreen reticule in order to dispatch those pesky non-zombies 
 with greater precision and speed than ever before. Again, you control how you look, as well as 
 turning Leon, with the analog stick, but it really doesn't feel awkward. In Capcom's defense, they 
 may have thought that not extending control of the camera to the remote would maintain the game's 
 claustrophobic intentions better than if players could really command it. How about motion? There 
 has to be some of that here right? Well, yes, but it's nothing that is going to make you pick up 
 RE4 WE solely for it. What is referred to now as 'Wii waggle' is limited to attacking with your 
 knife and escaping hazardous situations during interactive cutscenes. Many critics across the internet 
 claim that using Leon's knife doesn't feel right swiping with the Wii remote, and I don't quite 
 understand that. When you don't have it drawn, gesturing has Leon do a quick slash, and when you 
 do, it's a much stronger action. It feels just fine to me, and actually saved my behind at times. 
 Quit crying you overpaid babies, not all motion gameplay is simply 'tacked on'. With the interactive 
 cutscenes, it makes a lot of sense to 'waggle' the remote left and right to dodge oncoming threats 
 or sprint away from something chasing you. I like it a lot, and it actually makes some of those 
 situations easier. Now continue to remember that this is an over 2 years old game, with the Wii 
 being the final re-release. Do the graphics hold up? Surprisingly, and rather unfortunately, they 
 DO. RE4 WE is one of the best if not THE best Wii game to date graphically. Why did I say unfortunately 
 though, isn't that a good thing? Of course not, because it means a game that looked incredible 
 on GameCube, a last generation system, is making Nintendo's NEXT generation system look foolish. 
 Capcom really didn't do anything to upgrade RE4's looks despite that Wii is twice as powerful as 
 GameCube. Why is beyond my comprehension, but at least it doesn't kill the experience. Everything 
 still looks wonderful, everything. All the unique environments, all the detailed characters, all 
 the still awe-inspiring effects, still make this game look awesome. Were it not for how good RE4 
 looks its intention wouldn't have been as realized.
  
  What also hasn't changed, and mostly for the best, is the spine-tingling atmosphere when it comes 
 to what you hear. Really the only aspect to complain about is the voiced dialogue. If you played 
 this game in any version before, you'll hear it all again, which is obvious. You'll also notice 
 that your enemies repeat the same one-liners an awful lot, which is somewhat discouraging since 
 it wouldn't have taken THAT much effort for Capcom to record some new material. Oh well, it still 
 doesn't do much to hurt the package, just like in the case of the graphics. Still, all the weapons, 
 explosions, bursting heads, and overall survival-horror atmospheric ambience make RE4 WE another 
 winner. Trust me, if you think you braved the distant grunts of the Regenerators, you HAVEN'T. 
 Man those things are freaky!
  
  When it all comes down, you simply can't criticize this game much considering the facts that it 
 requires only thirty George Washingtons, features all the RE4 content you could want and is just 
 one heck of a fun game with the new control scheme. Plus the box even looks cool, which I wouldn't 
 have said about the GameCube's. Yes it's the same exact mission, the same characters and enemies 
 and same objective, but what was deemed exceptional two years ago still manages to hold now, and 
 that's a true testament to how quality RE4 truly is. Not too many games can be claimed to have 
 accomplished this feat. Bringing this to a close, I encourage you (RE4 fan OR not, remember that 
 or!) to check this out, even if it is just a rental. I find it to be worthy of the monetary investment, 
 as it does have a pleasant amount of value when you unlock all the hidden goodies. Here's to hoping 
 that Umbrella Chronicles helps clear up the fog around the mysterious T-Virus manufacturers, as 
 well as Capcom bringing more RE goodness to Wii in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirkyl
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 1, 2007 5:31 am PT
Review:  Wow, what an amazing game. Released on the gamecube 2 years ago, it was possibly the best game 
 of last gen. And now the evil is back and badder than ever.
  
  Graphics
  The lighting, textures and details are brilliant. Due to the wii's additional horsepower textures 
 and lighting have been improved. Although it doesn't look as good now than it did 2 years ago its 
 still stunning.
  
  Gameplay
  A lot of people have doubted the wii remote and this game shows they were all wrong. Although the 
 analog and remote aiming takes time to get used to, once you have mastered it the gameplay enhances. 
 Due to how easy headshots are now capcom have had to put more enimies into the game! And i can 
 always remember my first encounter with the chainsaw guy!
  
  Sound
  The sound on this game is phenomenal. From the water, to the crows everything is caught so realistically. 
 The music also blends in lovely with the game. You always know when something bad is about to happen.
 
  
  Value
  Well for me it was &pound;30 but for americans its an absolute steal at $30! A very solid campaign 
 mode and the extras from the ps2 game means the values great. Shame theres no wii-specific content 
 though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paine-nightmare
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 1, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  This game although it is two years old has the second best graphics on the wii, at least in my 
 opinion. so far the is the first shooting game where you are required to use the wiimote (before 
 metriod) and it makes you feel as if you are the one with the pistol the controls are near perfect. 
 If there is something that I would fix in the new wii edition is the ability to shoot while moving 
 and maybe being able to turn around a little easier with the wiimote. The only game on the wii 
 i can say has better graphics then this is Zelda which most people will probably agree. If you 
 are still hesitating to but this then at least go out and rent it , its not an rpg so if you the 
 week that you rent it for will be more than enough to beat it. Yet i still recommend to buy the 
 game much better then the PS2 version and most likely you will enjoy the new way to target enemy 
 as most of you all ready Know it makes the game a little bit easier but trust me it still just 
 as challenging as ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jo_riff2
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 30, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  This game is a must buy for anyone that missed it the first time round on gamecube. Graphics do 
 look somewhat dated when compared to the xbox 360 or ps3, but as far as the wii is concerned it 
 is is only second to zelda. The difficulty is very challenging even on easy mode, and you'll find 
 yourself out of ammo or health if you dont actively look around for it. Merchants dont sell ammo 
 and only one can of health spray.
  I started playing through and after a couple of hours encountered my first boss, suffice to say 
 it was over 30ft long, simply incredible.
  My only critisms with this game is not having the ability to strafe, and turning can be slow.
 
  
  Overall a brilliant game, something we've been waiting for on the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DazzHardy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 30, 2007 6:43 am PT
Review:  Upon its release in 2005, the Gamecube version of Resident Evil 4 not only brought new life to 
 the aging survival horror series, it became a huge success both critically and with end users. 
 It was one of the best scored games of that year, and went on to win many awards. However, with 
 the Gamecube flagging, Capcom ported the game over to the Playstation 2. With the PS2 release came 
 both good and bad. The PS2's hardware couldnt be pushed as hard as the Gamecube's, so the graphics 
 and sound took a hit, but with that, came widescreen support and more content. The PS2 version 
 also went on to receive great acclaim, so, how do you improve on two versions of one of the best 
 action games made? Combine the best parts of the two, and tighten the controls, and that's just 
 what Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition does.
  
  The Visual and Audio quality of the GC version and all the extra content from the PS2 version alone 
 would be enough to recommend this game to people who never played the original RE4's. It's not 
 all good news though. Resident Evil 4 is starting to show it's age, but let's not forget that it 
 was one of the best looking games of the last generation of consoles, and while it may not hold 
 up to something like a Gears of War, RE4 is still a fine looking and sounding game. Be it the dirty 
 look of the Village or the gritty look of later areas, RE4 looks the part. The sound doesnt let 
 the game down either, with the creepy sound effects and music that always fits in well, and always 
 seems to add to the situation its used in. Be it the haunting sound effects when you're exploring 
 or the dramatic music that adds tension to every battle, RE4 uses sound to great effect.
  
  However, what makes this game so easy to recommend to every Wii owner is its skillful use of the 
 Wii Remote. The ways Capcom have implemented the Wii remote greatly improve what was already an 
 incredibly solid game. Aiming with the Wii remote makes the whole game feel just that little bit 
 more involving, and gives you much greater control and feeling when you're firing away. Silly little 
 things like being able to quickly shake the Wii Remote to unleash a knife attack make it much easier 
 to mix up combat, and the use of the Wii Remote outside of combat is never overpowering, but is 
 used to give the whole game a more active feel, instead of just hitting buttons, you actually get 
 to be more involved in the on screen action.
  
  For those of you who havent played Resident Evil 4 before, the game see's you take on the role 
 of one Leon S. Kennedy, one of the two heroes from Resident Evil 2, a survivor of the Raccoon City 
 viral outbreak. 6 years have passed since then, and now, as a Special Agent, Leon has been assigned 
 to protect the president of the United States daughter, Ashley Graham. However, before his duties 
 begin, she'd kidnapped, and now Leon has to find her and rescue her. Leads take him to a remote 
 village, and that's when all hell breaks loose. If you're used to action games, or have played 
 a Resident Evil game in the past, RE4 is pretty easy to pick up, even with the Wii Remote instead 
 of more traditional controls, and while it can initially seem quite difficult in places, a little 
 time to master controls and learn good combat tactics can pay off in no time at all.
  
  All in all, Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition is one of the most solid games available. It combines 
 the best parts of both its PS2 and GC predecessors, and tightens the whole game with well implemented 
 Wii controls. It is the defining version of one of the best games of the genre, and will stand 
 as quite the measuring stick for similar games to live up to on the Wii. An absolute must for every 
 Wii owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fang_lord
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 29, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Ok... ill admit, im not a huge fan of survival horror games, but did play resi 1-3 (and now 4) , 
 when i first saw this i was... ooo look at the wierd setting... i just gotta wait for zombies now... well 
 then i was like... wow, that guy aint a zombie lol.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics have a very good look to them, they fit into the game perfectly. The draw distance 
 is great, and when its dark, the lightning effexts are amazing. The minor details like hair, clothes, 
 water, fire and trees all look life life, and move life like. The Gandos (non zombie **** may all 
 be a variety of 5 or 6 models, but i dont care, they all look fantastic, and are great to kill. 
 It uses in game graphics for cutscenes not prerendered, and it looks fantastic!
  
  CONTROLS
  
  PERFECT. not much else to say. you point and shoot. swing to knife, and use motion 
 controls for interactive cutscenes and other things. Simple controls, easy to pick up, and it feels 
 like this game was made for it.
  
  SOUND
  
  Excellent, all the music, weapons, voice acting and effects all sound great, one of the highlights 
 of the game.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Amazing. It has you on your toes at all times, with the enemy AI adapting to wha you are doing 
 and where you are, makes this a constant battle that us never to easy. The boss fights are some 
 of the best i have ever fought, memorable and fun to kill again and again, infact you kill 1 of 
 them twice lol.
  It also throughs choices at you, which alter the gameplay slighly, some advice... help the wolf 
 stuck in the bear trap... you will get a surprise later in the game :P
  
  The story is also gripping and makes you want to continue playing, for me, zombies never really 
 gave me a compelling feeling to go on... but gandos, they make me wonder, what are they, whats happening 
 here, why are they doing this, wtf is that comming from that guys head! and where did all my ammo 
 go: P All of these and more is in the story, its amazing.
  
  OVERALL
  
  Best in series, best in Wii mabe (i have 19 GREAT wii games, and this tops them all hands down.) . 
 Lush graphics, great sound, perfect controls, superb gameplay, this is a must by! it should be 
 the 11th comandment Thou shalt buy a wii to buyith this game . Amazing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m1k3m
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 15, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil... FOUR!!!! Yeah this game has you peeing your pants from the very beginning.
  
  Gameplay: This game's gameplay is amazing. It is a definite improvement over the older versions. 
 Wii controls and RE4 are like.... pancakes and syrup. Gameplay-10
  
  Graphics:
  Resi 4: Wii Edition's graphics are great! They are only GameCube level though so they aren't that 
 amazing even though they are quite good.
  Graphics-8
  
  Sound:
  From the boom of guns to the moans of zombies Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition's sounds are great. 
 You can hear zombies screaming in the distance as a warning to get ready and while they are coming 
 at you they make freaky moans, groans, and screams. The sounds are a great feat for the developers 
 and it's worth listening hard while playing.
  Sound-10
  
  Value:
  Between the main story to all of the extra content from the PS2 version this game is a steal for 
 30 bucks. Thats like.... buying one of the best games ever made for only $30 lol.
  Value-10
  
  Tilt:
  I've had and am still having a lot of fun with this game. It is just sooooo good. 
 Words cannot describe.
  Tilt-10
  
  Overall:
  Overall Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition is a phenomenal game. It's worth at least 50-70 of your dollars 
 and at only $30 this is a steal bigger than stealing all of the gold in Grimmgots Bank from Harry 
 Potter lol.
  Overall-10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 29, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Definitely my all time favorite game. It is the ultimate version of RE4 in that you get all the 
 extras that were included in the PS2 version such as the Movie Browser, Ada's Separate Ways side-game, 
 and a couple of extra costumes and weapons. What's better is it plays in widescreen and allows 
 easy control with the wiimote for aiming and the joy stick nunchak for controlling the character. 
 You can even use a classic/VC controller and play through the game as if you were using the gamecube 
 controller.
  
  This game is great for anyone who missed out on the extras from the PS2 version because they owned 
 the GC version or for anyone who neglected to buy it win it was first released. The wii controls 
 add more precision when aiming for headshots and I felt like shaking the wiimote during cutscenes 
 was easier than tapping buttons like it was originally done in previous versions.
  
  The only drawback to the Wii controls is that you have to be able to consciously manipulate the 
 camera using the joystick and the pointer using the wiimote at the same time. You didn't have to 
 originally do it this way in previous versions but it is a necessary part of using the pointer. 
 It takes some getting used to but eventually it becomes second nature. Also, with the old style 
 you could aim and shoot and know that the gun would default shoot straight ahead of you. Because 
 it relies on the pointer and not the joystick you will not always have that advantage unless you 
 manually ensure that you are pointing at the screen when you prepare to aim. It's slightly more 
 complex but it pays off with a huge increase in precision.
  
  Highly recommended 
::::::

::::::
UserName: triforced3
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 29, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Great game + great console = Resident Evil 4 for the Wii
  
  the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the best bes best 
 best best best best best best best best best best best best best
  resident resident resident resident resident resident resident resident resident
  evil evil evil 
 evil evil evil evil evil evil evil evil evil evil evil evil evil evil evil evil evil
  game game game game game game game game game game game game yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet 
 yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merch
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 29, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  i have the gcube version of this and just beaten this version.
  overall people say re4 is a great game there right
  this game with these controls is so much 
 easier with the over the shoulder camera with the pointer its easier to aim. the graphics are exactly 
 as the gcube version the controls in this version are easy to learn and the game is about 16 hours 
 long just the regualar game itself then u have all the modes as the ps2 version has so this one 
 is a all the other re4 game in one.
  this game is 30$ for the wii version here
  the gcube version just droped by my house to 15$ but i say go with the wii version its alot better 
 with the controls and has more content on it than the gcube version.
  difficulty is just right
  time spent to date 100 + hours
  classify it best in the series
 
  and learnign curve is 10 mins. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CptSquirrly1091
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 29, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  Like i said, its not what i expected... I expected at least a few new boss fights and features, 
 but the only new feature is the RE Umbrella Chronicles trailer. When it comes to game play, graphics, 
 and sound however, the game seems to have the standards of the Gamecube Version. As for what it 
 contains from the PS2, there is nothing, nothing except for the extra costumes and game types, 
 id rather not name them in case someone who hasnt even played this for the GC or the PS2.
  
  Overall this game is Good, graphics are awesome, Music (well, sounds) are good, and gameplay 
 is, ok i guess, it'd be better if they made the B button shoot tho... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdrianH2G
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2007 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Only play it... i am not the kind of man that can describe this kind of thing
  only one thing to say: IS RESIDENT EVIL ON WII !!!! i know you want it :)
  
  Play resident 
 evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil --
  Play resident evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil --
  Play resident 
 evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil --
  Play resident evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil --
  Play resident 
 evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil --
  Play resident evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil --
  Play resident 
 evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil --
  Play resident evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil --
  Play resident 
 evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil --
  Play resident evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil --
  Play resident 
 evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil --
  Play resident evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil --
  Play resident 
 evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil --
  Play resident evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil --
  Play resident 
 evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil --
  Play resident evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil --
  Play resident 
 evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil --
  Play resident evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil --
  Play resident 
 evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil --
  Play resident evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil -- Play resident evil -- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyfatman24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 11:48 pm PT
Review:  If you ever played the original Resident Evil 4 for the Nintendo Gamecube then you may understand 
 why this game was so great. First of all it's scary as hell. So many times in the game you will 
 be jumping out of your seat because a Las Plagas filled Spaniard is swinging its sickle or throwing 
 an axe right out you. The AI is extremely smart in this game.
  
  The game also came out for the PS2 with some added guns and a couple new bonus features. The game 
 that came out for Wii is the exact same as the PS2 version except with Wii controls. Those who 
 follow just Nintendos game consoles can now experience what the PS2 players experienced in this 
 game. When I first started playing I began to miss the laser pointer, but after a while I realized 
 that the Wii pointing system is more fun even though the laser pointer was cooler. The quick knife 
 is very useful because it just requires a slice of the Wiimote. The complicated knife on the Gamecube 
 version made me want to shoot those goddamn barrels instead of slice them. Gameplay: Basically 
 the same freaky-ass gameplay as the other versions. But has Wii controls that don't have seizures 
 when youre playing. The knife is always working and the gun is always pointed to where I tell 
 it.
  
  Graphics: I wouldn't call them outdated, but they are pretty much the same as the original graphics. 
 This is because the Wii can't handle fantastic graphics, like its competitors can.
  
  Sound: Pretty much the same blasting off heads and wiggling Plagas popping out of a body sounds. 
 They added in sounds for the Wiimote as well. When you reload your weapon the Wiimote will make 
 a reloading-your-weapon sound.
  
  All in all: You should diffidently buy it if you haven't played it or haven't played the hell out 
 of it. If you have already played the hell out of it then I would recommend renting and beating 
 it. Otherwise you might waste your 30 dollars on just one round of play (which happens to be about 
 15 hours) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Guns! Zombies! Awesome graphics! Creepy Music and uber Wii Control's! All mixed into one game and 
 this is what you get! One of the best games to hit the wii! This game was original made on the 
 GC and then PS2 and now the Wii! Nothing has been done however but the control scheme but they 
 really did there job! The controls are flawless and feel the real scheme as if your part of this 
 game. From dodging to shooting, you feel like your really there. No longer will you be button mashing! 
 This being by first time playing this game was a whole new experience for me, but even pro's of 
 this game should get it! The graphics are amazing and the best of the best, even to this day for 
 nintendo! The story to the creepy sounds are all great. I just couldn't let go of this game and 
 to boot all the extra of the ps2 version have been added to this game as well, so if you missed 
 stuff from playing on the GC version well this one has them as well. Decent length of a game and 
 very thrilling. Its just a masterpiece, what else can I say? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvader654
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  This is not a review of the game RE4, I have reviewed it before, I think its one of the all time 
 greatest games ever made. This is basically a review of the additions the Wii version of RE4 brings 
 to the table. The Wii version includes all the modes and extras found in the PS2 version with slightly 
 better graphics, has the ability to play the game with a controller (so its essentially the GC 
 version as well) , plus it has the wiimote controls which is the main reason you should be buying 
 this version.
  
  Ever since I bought the Wii I always felt RE4 would work perfectly with the wiimote, so when this 
 version was announced I was definitely excited. My first hour with the game actually wasn't all 
 that great, these new controls have a learning curve especially if you have put in many hours into 
 the game before. My main issues at first were the fact that the you still need to move the stick 
 to move the camera around while using the wiimote to aim the target, also learning the button placements 
 took a while to accustom too. So if you have mixed feelings during the first hour of play just 
 stick with it cause its very much worth it.
  
  The Wiimote provides the player with a quicker, more natural way of aiming. Moving the target from 
 enemy to enemy is as easy as slightly moving your wrist. Say you have three enemies coming at you, 
 with a handgun you can headshot all of them within a second or two, its incredibly responsive and 
 accurate. In fact RE4 may have the best aiming of any Wii game yet, I don't think Zelda felt this 
 smooth in its aiming. After you have experienced the fluid movement of the wiimote going back to 
 the controller will feel sickening. There is a concern that with the wiimote aiming the game would 
 become easier. There is no doubt that it was harder and slower to aim at enemies with the controller 
 (especially at long distances) so yes there has to be an effect on the difficulty. That being said 
 I don't feel it's that noticeable, the game can still provide a decent challenge. The most important 
 thing is that you are having fun, and the Wiimote allows for faster more in control gameplay. I 
 found myself getting out of situations unharmed where previously it would have been impossible 
 without the wiimote aiming, its those wow I cant believe I did that moments this version offers 
 which makes the whole gameplay experience that much better.
  
  The aiming isn't the only aspect of the controls to get a facelift, it seems like all the actions 
 are easier to access. The Wiimote puts every action just a quick motion away. Need to reload just 
 shake the wiimote. Need to use the knife, just do a slashing motion. Its less moving of your fingers, 
 in the end it keeps you more focused on that next target than getting from one action to another. 
 One of the key new features is the quick knife, you just make a slashing motion with the wiimote 
 and your character will automatically slash at the nearest interactive object. I found myself using 
 the knife far more often in this version because of that simple action. There is a chance it might 
 register one extra slash you didn't intend to perform but most of the time it works like a charm. 
 If you want to aim it manually the option is there as well. The sniper rifle does not use the wiimote 
 to aim, yes it is a shame that you need to rely on the stick but the wii control scheme works better 
 than the old scheme. In the previous version the zoom function was mapped to the right stick, one 
 would have to move their right thumb to the stick to zoom, then move it back to the fire button. 
 Now the zoom function is mapped to the nunchuck so you can fire while zooming, just another example 
 of how the wiimote makes everything in the game work more efficiently.
  
  The Wii version includes Separate Ways, the Ada side story included in the PS2 version. If you 
 have never played the PS2 version then I would say this version is most definitely worth it to 
 play with the new controls and experience these 4-5 hours worth of new content. Sadly Separate 
 Ways doesn't exactly look as detailed as the rest of the game. It still uses some of the PS2 version's 
 assets, the character models have been upgraded to GC level graphics but there is still a noticeable 
 difference in this mode compared to the rest of the game. Also of note, this Wii version is in 
 true anamorphic widescreen, something the GC version was missing
  
  So should you run out and buy this new version of RE4, it depends on how much a new control scheme 
 interests you. As I stated above if you have never played Separate Ways I say yes, buy this version. 
 If you have the PS2 version it might be worth it just to see with the graphics the game was intended 
 to have, so yes get this version. Now if you have both the GC and PS2 versions, or have played 
 both, then you need to ask yourself is playing RE4 with a better control scheme worth it. Honestly 
 I think it is, I am not going to say it changes the entire gameplay experience, no its still the 
 same game. I say it will compliment the game enough, make it seem like a fresh enough experience 
 that you will feel satisfied. The best way I can compare the wiimote controls to the analog controls 
 would be the difference between controlling a 3D character with a d-pad to an analog stick. You 
 can control the character with a d-pad but the percision and smoothness of the analog stick is 
 so superior that you won't want to use the d-pad. That is how I feel about this Wii version, I 
 don't think I will ever want to play RE4 with a game pad again. Honestly its going to hurt playing 
 RE5 with a gamepad after getting a taste of how this style of RE handles with the wiimote. (No 
 I am not saying I want RE5 to be moved to the Wii)
  
  So yes I fully recommend this version to most everyone. It is the definitive version of RE4, better 
 controls, all the modes, and if for whatever reason you want to play with the controller that option 
 is there as well. Its the total perfect RE4 package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViVi110
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 28, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  When the original Resident Evil 4 was released for the gamecube there was 2 problems for me: #1: 
 I wasn't allowed to play M rated games and #2: I didn't own a gamecube. After a while it was again 
 released again for the PS2. I owned a PS2, but I didn't really want to have the game.
  
  A few years later the Wii was released and with it came a terrible game drought that left Wii owners 
 bored and upset. So that is why I got RE4. I was bored, and I think all be bored when buying my 
 games from now on.
  
  This game is amazing. It's presentation, it's amazing sound ,and it's breathtaking action. It's 
 all great. It keeps your blood pumping all the way through, and even though it's not very scary, 
 it is extremely trilling and satisfying. Some times, when the game gets to really hard parts, you 
 can't help it but to scream as you are chased by the monsters that are determined to kill you.
 
  
  The only real problem is that there is a few times when the game is downright silly, like when 
 there's a shooting range mini-game in the middle of a castle or a huge pit of lava under a dungeon 
 that has horses that shoot fire at you.
  
  Otherwise from that, I adored this outstanding game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abby88
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 28, 2007 4:35 am PT
Review:  First of all, this review is intended for those of you who have already played the game in one 
 of its previous incarnations. If you haven't played RE4 before and you own a Wii, just stop reading 
 now and go out and buy yourself a copy. Seriously.
  
  Now, this is still the same game you've already played. There's nothing new that's unique to the 
 Wii version, other than the controls and a trailer of Umbrella Chronicles. But even though it's 
 still the same old game, at only $30 it's definitely worth picking up. If you're a fan of RE4, 
 at the very least rent it to check out the controls -- although you'll probably end up buying it 
 if you do.
  
  The new controls will take a bit to adjust to, but they're very intuitive after a few minutes of 
 play. Just hold down B to raise your gun, aim with the Wiimote, and press A to fire. To reload, 
 you shake the Wiimote -- which takes some getting used to before you get the hang of it, but once 
 you do it works well. To use your knife, just wave the Wiimote without holding anything down, and 
 it automatically figures out what you're trying to target. I was skeptical of the auto-target before 
 playing, but it really does work very well in most cases.
  
  All in all, the controls are amazing. You'll be aiming with a precision you never thought possible -- and 
 after having beaten the game on the Wii, there's no way I could go back to using a normal controller. 
 Using the joystick to aim would seem incredibly clunky and awkward.
  
  Which brings me to my few minor nitpicks. First of all, when using your rifle -- at the time you 
 most need precise aiming -- the game forces you to use the joystick, instead of the Wiimote. It's 
 very annoying, and resulted in me avoiding usage of my rifle as much as possible. And second, the 
 new controls are so easy to use that they remove some of the challenge from the game, especially 
 if you've played it before.
  
  The Wii version includes the extras of the PS2 version as well as the superior graphics and sound 
 of the Gamecube version -- although sadly, the graphics in Seperate Ways don't seem to have been 
 updated to GC quality. All in all, though, it's definitely the best version that's been released 
 yet. If you haven't played RE4 before, this is the version to get -- and even if you have, it's worth 
 buying again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nowaf
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  what do we expect from shenji mekami he is the godfather of horror I mean gays come on look at 
 the control that well be just fine
  to fill your brain with magic it's great really all of it from cover to cover
  
  the aiming 
 system, the sniping system, on top of that it's the separate ways mode playing as ada wong the red 
 rouge . not ot mention it the mercenaries mode showing us
  five character leaon .ada. hunk .wesker and jack in the PS2 version there is no sign of real time 
 play
  when you choose the customs for leon ,ashley and ada
  but now it's change those who have not played the game
  thay miss all the fun so go on and dig 
 it in this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mullen15
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 30, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Ok as far as the graphics go ther about the same as the Gamecube. But with the wii remote turns 
 the gameplay to a different level. Sound is great also with the wii remote giving out different 
 sounds which actually sounds preety cool. So all and all if you have have 30 extra dollars and 
 loved RE4 for the Gamecube or PS2 by all means pick up. I thought I would slap the 10 on this but 
 it just didnt have enough or pacific wii content to do that. Still not taking anything away from 
 the game. Resident Evil 4 is a colt classic that just wont die and its one of the best games of 
 all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  well the third game of resident evil 4 dose it dissapoint for god sakes noits bassicly the same 
 as the ps2 verson and this is the most fun with the wii controls but theres not realy any thing 
 after you beat the game to do besides try to earn money and buy things buy it gets kinda old so 
 for wii oners i would deffinetly buy this game why'l your waiting for metorid and super mario graphics 
 9/10
  gameplay 10/10
  sound 10/10
  value 6/10
  tilt 9/10 so resident evil is a good game but weve been there and did that hope you enjoyed gamer 
 tag RaNd3M H3R0 77
  
  mysapce. com/creatureforlifefan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goten_117
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 27, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  I'll just go ahead and make this one quick, since most people have either played the game before 
 or read previous reviews for other systems. Essentially this is still the Same Resident Evil 4 
 at its core, but it brings together the best assets from both the Gamecube and PS2 versions, while 
 adding in a new Wii-specific control scheme to create the greatest incarnation of the game yet. 
 Visually, the game looks identical to the GC version, which isn't a bad thing, because, although 
 they don't stack up to current next-gen titles, they still pack quite a punch. Back when this game 
 was first released, the Gamecube was being pushed to it's limits. You can stillso how much effort 
 was put into the game now by looking at the amazing lighting and water effects. It's easier to 
 notice blurry textures up close if you've played 360 or PS3 games often, but overall it's still 
 impressive. The audio is still as stunning as ever as well. The music always occurs at just the 
 right time, right when the mood needs to change. The content of the game is also pretty appealing. 
 You basically get the entire core game, along with all of the bonus missions, costumes and weapons 
 found in the PS2 version. This is a great addition, because now you can get all of the extra content 
 of the PS2 version, with the visual flare of the GC version (the PS2's visuals in re4 just didn't 
 stack up in comparison) Probably the biggest change that everyone is wondering about is the addition 
 of Wii control. Well, let me assure you that it not only works just fine, but it actually surpasses 
 the original Gamecube setup in some aspects. Aiming with the Wii-remote is FAR more accurate than 
 using the standard controler, and since your aim is in sync with the movement of your hand, it's 
 much easier to switch between targets and hit multiple body parts in short amounts of time. The 
 one thing that takes some getting used to is the fact that the camera doesn't move when your pointer 
 hits the side of the screen. You still have to use the analog stick to change your view. This can 
 feel odd at first, but it shouldn't be a problem after 30 minutes to an hour of play. I also found 
 that certain instances involving re4's famous quick commands could find the remote being a bit 
 unresponsive, but only at rare instances.
  
  Overall, I'd have to say this is a must buy for RE fans, hardcore gamers, anyone who wants to play 
 a decent Wii game, and many others. The $30 price tag is perfectly worth it, trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duminakan89
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 26, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Secret Service Agent Leon S. Kennedy is back on his mission to rescue the President's daughter 
 but this time on the Nintendo Wii.
  
  This new installment Packs the Gamecubes graphics with the added content from the PS2 version all 
 in one disc. The Wii edition of Resident Evil is not much different from the previous versions. 
 The story is the same hitting the gamer with nonstop action put together by a talented team of 
 developers. If you've been living in a cave for the past two years then you wouldn't know the many 
 accolades the game has received for being a departure from the series and innovating the survival 
 horror genre, taking ti to the next level.
  
  The biggest difference of the Wii edition is obviously the new control scheme; For the most part 
 the controls don't really take away from the gameplay. The game is a little sluggish compared to 
 previous versions, especially when trying to aim but the mechanics translate well. For example 
 whipping out your knife has been made much easier with the newly implemented Wii controls. Aiming 
 is also somewhat smoother since you are free to point at the screen.
  
  All-in-all Resident Evil 4 Wii edition is a solid package for a good price, this game should freshen 
 up the rather stagnant Wii library. if you ahven't played this game yet, then seriously what are 
 you waiting for, stop reading this and go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doominatorx6
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 26, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Well, unless your one of the 10 people who hasn't played RE4 yet (whether your living in a cave 
 or you have a mental disability, i dont know, or care) this version is another chance for you to 
 play it. However, at a 40$ (CDN) price point, would you want to play it again? Uh, YES.
  
  Graphics - When this game came out on the gamecube back in 2005, it was a damn fine looking game, 
 and one of the best looking on the console. Now 2 years later... it still looks good, but defiantly 
 dated by todays standards though.
  
  Sound - Amazing sound design all around. The voice acting is kinda lame, but the slightly retarded 
 sounding villagers to the moans and groans of the zombies, everything sounds amazing, and even 
 creepy at times. It just creates a great atmosphere.
  
  Gameplay - This is a port of a two year old game, so there not many gameplay changes, but there 
 is one major one: the wii controls. And they work pretty well. Aiming is way easier in this version 
 I thought as opposed to the gamecube and ps2 versions. I did have some problems with the game and 
 aiming with my wireless sensor bar, but it was very smooth and fluid overall.
  
  Value - You have a main story that clocks around 8-10 hours to finish, but theres a good chance 
 you'll go back and replay it a few more times. Theres also a harder difficulty setting you can 
 unlock, a separate story line called (insert pun here) separate ways which can last a few hours 
 by itself. Also a few other modes, which are pretty fun.
  
  Overall - I was very surprised by RE4 wii, mainly because of all the other half-assed wii ports 
 out there (splinter cell, far cry, etc...) but they really knocked one out of the park here. I 
 would have given this game a perfect score if they updated the visuals and added more content, 
 but by itself, this is a must-buy for wii owners, even if you've already beaten the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiman555
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2007 3:16 am PT
Review:  First off, this game is one of the top 2 games ever made, in my opinion. I believe that the Legend 
 of Zelda: Ocarina of Time as well as this game are about equal in fun-factor, quality, and overall 
 greatness. I was skeptical at first and asked myself why would I want to buy another version of 
 RE4 if I already own and have beaten it on the Gamecube?
  Once I popped in the disk and pointed the Wii-mote at the screen to squeeze of the first few pistol 
 rounds into the Ganado's heads with impeccable speed, ease, and accuracy -- I knew this was an incredible 
 achievement and a fresh new take on a modern classic. The silky-smooth Wii controls feel far better 
 than the Gamecube controls, and the IR is implemented perfectly.
  This game further proves that the Wii Remote is suited extremely well to action games, as well 
 as almost any other game for that matter. Tag on the fact that this definitive version is priced 
 at only $29.99, it really is a steal. The game has been reinvigorated with a breath of fresh air 
 in the Wii-mote controls. Aiming feels natural and ... sweet.
  
  Still, I would have liked to see Capcom add in some new content or even change some of the fundamental 
 mechanics of the gameplay. The aiming and shooting is great -- but the switching between weapons 
 is often tedious and takes you out of the action. If for the next Wii iteration of Resident Evil 
 (other than Umbrella Chronicles....*sigh*) , they used a dynamic system of weapon changing in real-time 
 on the screen a-la The Godfather Blackhand -- it would add even more immersion into the incredible 
 experience. Still, overall, a superb action game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunnygopher123
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 26, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  RE4. The reason why I wanted the Wii. It's fun, interactive and it will keep you occupied for hours. 
 It's not scary whatsoever. The game is solid with some slight terriable camera angles. Weapons are 
 plentiful and the shotting is the best part. AWSOME you must get it! This game is also well balenced 
 and it doesn't take alot of time to get down. The whole map is almost all survival. My favorite 
 part is when you get to hole up in a house and defend the house. If you dont have a Wii get one 
 or else your mssing out on one of the best games of the century. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karrasxk
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  I loved the original Resident evil for and played it to death on the Game Cube. Despite owning 
 the original, for $30 it is will worth it to play through this game again. With the wii-more shooting 
 distant zombies is limited only by the draw distance. This is the first game where you completely 
 control where your character goes and still have the shooting of a light gun game. Well, I will 
 admit, it's the first I have ever heard of or played. The difficulty feels just right with the 
 wii-mote though a little easy at times. Though, as a result of being able to point and shoot so 
 easily I think that some of the claustrophobic feeling is removed. Part of what added to the scary 
 nature of the original was trying to line up a laser beam with a zombie face from a third person 
 perspective. Being able to aim gives the game slightly more of a run and gun feeling.
  
  The graphics look nice though they are a bit dated. Muddy textures and jagged edges are barely 
 noticeable though when you become immersed in the action.
  
  The sound is great, though the dialogue is still cheesy. The regular ganados repeat themselves 
 a bit too often and I still find the female ganados to sound far more scary. Pretty much every 
 line Leon has should be sliced and eaten with crackers. It's amazing how well the sounds from the 
 wii-mote blend so fluidly and never feel tacked on.
  
  The plot is a bit Uwe Bowlish and has as many holes as the Swiss cheese Leon's lines were cut from. 
 But, that isn't really very important. This game is all about the action and the creepy atmosphere. 
 The goofiness seems to pay homage to the original Resident Evil roots. The sequences where you 
 need to escort Ashley can be a pain. You will want her to follow you most of the time but she can 
 get in the way and take collateral damage. Then again, if you leave her in a spot she may get killed/brat-napped. 
 The fact that she can pretty much only cower as a defense is a bit unrealistic but necessary to 
 maintain the difficulty level in the game.
  
  This game is awesome and fun to play through again with all of your accumulated equipment and health. 
 The mini-games are a blast, though it can be frustrating since the characters are not balanced 
 well. If you haven't played it yet, PLAY IT! If you have played it before on another system, PLAY 
 IT!
  
  ---
  
  A gun shaped controller would make this game even more fun. I feel like I am channel surfing the 
 zombies to death sometimes ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whtddusy517
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  Whether your new to the game, or like me, had beaten the gamecube version so many times you could 
 play it blindfolded, this is definitely a steal. I originally pre-ordered RE4 on the Gamecube, 
 and did the same for the Wii. I had never played the PS2 version, so in a sense I am getting new 
 content. All I've had time for is a run through Chapter 2, and its like playing the game for the 
 first time again with the new motion controls. I have noticed some parts of the game are well... gone. 
 I can't think of any of the top of my mind, but especially when you are tied up and you dodge the 
 axe. I believe in the GC version there were 2 action sequences, and in this version there is only 
 1. This might have been omitted on the PS2 version but, I didn't play it, so I wouldn't know.
 
  
  Anyways, graphics still look amazing for a dated game, sound is still superb. Nuff said, go buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizardmon5
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Let me preface this by saying I have both the Gamecube and PC versions of this game. The Gamecube 
 one had me addicted all the way through, and for quite a while after I beat it the first time. 
 The PC version I would rate at about a 1 because they completely screwed up the controls. I played 
 it for about ten minutes before giving up.
  
  But, even after buying and playing both of those versions, I'm happy with my purchase of the Wii 
 version. I'm pretty sure they upped the graphics a bit (in any case, it looks great) , and the motion-control 
 and Seperate Ways missions (which I hadn't gotten a chance to play with my older copies) make it 
 a great deal. Not to mention it's only $30.
  
  The control scheme works really well. It's very intuitive, much easier to aim at exactly what you 
 want to hit (I'm getting plenty more head shots then on my Gamecube version, and my hit ratio has 
 gone up a good 20 to 30 percent, I'd estimate) . For anyone unfamiliar, you hold the B button (the 
 trigger) to enter firing mode, point at whatever you want to hit (the new comically-oversized crosshair 
 makes aiming a breeze, though I do kind of miss the old red laser beam) , and hit the A button to 
 fire.
  
  One overlooked feature of the control scheme is that you can make a slashing motion with the Wiimote 
 to slash with your knife. I found that to be really, really convenient, because I always hated 
 having to go into knife mode just to break a barrel or box. Now you just slash quickly, and Leon 
 whips out the knife and puts it away just as quickly. (You can, of course, slash back and forth 
 to keep cutting into an enemy.) Doing this also seems to be almost an auto-aim. If you're standing 
 to the left or right of a barrel, and you slash (or if the barrel is on the ground, below eye-level) , 
 Leon will automatically slash the nearest breakable object.
  
  Overall, the controls really make you feel as if you're playing the game in an arcade, which is 
 exactly how I was hoping it would feel. And, for anyone concerned, I find the sensitivity to be 
 absolutely perfect. It shouldn't be an issue.
  
  The bottom line is that this is as fun as it could possibly be, and with the price tag and control 
 scheme (not to mention the inclusion of the Seperate Ways missions, for those of you who didn't 
 have the PS2 version) , you can't really pass this game up. At the very least, rent it once to try 
 it out. Maybe it's more fun than you think it will be.
  
  And a quick note for anyone who hasn't had a chance to play RE4 on any of its previous releases: 
 It isn't as scary as the other RE games. I mean, it has its moments. If you WANT it to be scary, 
 it'll definitely creep you out well enough. I think it balanced horror and action perfectly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smbius
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 26, 2007 12:50 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 has now been reincarnated for the Wii and if you haven't played the game yet, the 
 Wii Edition is, by far, the best version (and hopefully the last) to date. In the original GameCube 
 version, Leon Kennedy aims with his gun using laser sighting. The level of success for finishing 
 each chapter was dependent on how well you can precisely use the analog stick and its cumbersome 
 button configurations. Now, with the Wii Edition, the console's limitations of third person shooting 
 goes away. Using the Wiimote, you can point and aim with a higher level of accuracy and speed than 
 any controller. The gameplay hasn't changed much nor has the controls been overhauled. You can't 
 just aim and shoot enemies while strafing or running, for example. You will still need to stop 
 walking to shoot. But the huge improvement in speed and accuracy goes a long way. In some cases, 
 it turns into a confidence booster. It is also a great invitation to PC gamers who've been used 
 to aiming with their mouse for years. Birds that flew away before can be easily shot dead during 
 flight. Headshots will come more naturally, including legs and arms which should no longer pose 
 an aiming problem. You will with very little practice be able to walk through environments with 
 the Wii Nunchuk's analog stick, all the while setting up your next shot with pinpoint accuracy 
 using the Wiimote. It's an undeniable improvement in control and one that helps you play better 
 and enjoy the game much more. This is exactly the kind of gameplay the Wii was meant to demonstrate. 
 Suddenly, aiming and pulling the trigger on your TMP sub-machine gun seems more satisfying than 
 using the analog stick. The same can be said for the reloading and melee attacks. Knife attacks 
 are executed by just swinging or stabbing with the remote. Reloading is accomplished by flicking 
 the Wiimote while holding the B trigger. When you locate and join the President's daugher (Ashley) , 
 the (+) button is used to tell Ashley to follow or stay while the (-) button is used to browse 
 through your inventory, switch weapons, or view the map. The controls feel so intuitive that the 
 game becomes a seemless experience when you are dealing with any hostile situation. It's unfortunate 
 that Capcom did not extend the Wiimote's intuitive control with some of the other parts of the 
 game. Arranging or selecting items in the inventory screen, viewing the map and solving puzzles 
 require you to use your analog stick. On another strange note, aiming with a scoped-rifle also 
 requires the analog stick. However, for some odd reason, the interactive cutscenes haven't suffered 
 from this. As you're dodging boulders, tentacles, or climbing up the edge of a cliff you will be 
 frequently asked to shake or swing the remote. Although the gestures may not fit in the whole context 
 of the scene, the interactivity is there. It may have been Capcom's intention to simplify the movement 
 and gestures of the remote. By doing this, the player does not constantly die to learn more gestures 
 and break up the game's incredible pacing. Either way, the cutscenes happen so fast that these 
 simple gestures are a welcome update of the game. It works well because the intensity of these 
 cutscenes are not lost in the process.
  
  If you have a Wii, the Wii Edition of Resident Evil 4 is a must buy, especially if you have not 
 played it yet. Althrough Resident Evil 4 has been familiar territory for sometime, the new control 
 scheme injects more visceral action into this already great game. The feeling of mowing down hoards 
 of enemies with the Wiimote can become so addictive that you may find yourself unlocking some of 
 the other weapons, especially the ones that carry unlimited ammo. RE4: Wii Edition is currently 
 the best action game for the Wii that is leaps and bounds over its current competition (i. e. Red 
 Steel, Godfather, Far Cry, etc) and it even contains all of the latest enhancements including the 
 Ada Wong chapters from the PS2 version. At 30 bucks, the Wii Edition is an incredible buy that 
 can't be beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 25, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Everything old is new again in Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition, a re-tooled version of the classic 
 2005 Gamecube and PS2 game. Just by taking the source material from the Gamecube game and adding 
 in the extra chapter and true widescreen support from the PS2 version, Wii Edition is the quintessential 
 version of a modern classic. It is the new Wii-specific controls, however, that make this a must-own 
 for any Wii owner of age, regardless of whether youve already played Resident Evil 4.
  
  For those who never played the original, you are Leon S. Kennedy, a former police officer who survived 
 the terrible zombie outbreak in Raccoon City (some may recognize this as the storyline of Resident 
 Evil 2, in which Leon was a playable character) . Because of his outstanding performance, hes been 
 promoted to a special agent in the US government. His first assignment turns out to be even worse 
 than the outbreak; he must infiltrate a strange European village to look for the Presidents kidnapped 
 daughter, Ashley. Resident Evil 4 does a good job of tying into the series while remaining distant 
 so that you wont need any prior knowledge to appreciate whats going on in the story.
  
  Leon has a whole lot of work ahead of him for his first assignment. Youll quickly discover that 
 the local Spanish-speaking villagers have no intention of playing nice; instead, theyll close 
 in with hatchets, pitchforks, knives, and all sorts of dangerous materials with the intent of slicing 
 you up to bits. Leon has the advantage in that he can attack with his pistol from a distance, but 
 these enemies are smart, swaying to make themselves harder targets and overwhelming you by attacking 
 from all directions. Resident Evil 4 does a fantastic job of keeping you on your toes; just when 
 you have a sound strategy for the mixture of enemies youve been facing off against, a new, more 
 grotesque creature will start appearing and change everything.
  
  In contrast to your pushy and incorrigible enemies, Leons not your typical action hero; youll 
 need to hold in a button for him to stop moving and raise his weapon. This effectively limits you 
 to shooting while stationary. This is a good thing, because it forces you be strategic and lets 
 you get into some seriously suspenseful moments with the games fantastic enemy designs. It also 
 makes you think hard about your ammunition reserves before wasting bullets, since you wont run 
 across all that much during the game. These particulars of Resident Evil 4 conspire with the clever 
 foes to make what is definitely the most challenging game on the Wii so far, but it is inarguably 
 a fitting challenge, one thatll keep you coming back to the game and simply makes sense against 
 the foreboding backdrops the game takes place in.
  
  Thankfully, Wii Editions terrific new set of controls makes precision aiming noticeably breezier 
 than it was in past entries. Youll move Leon and use your knife with the Nunchuck, while the remote 
 is used for aiming and firing weapons. Interestingly, an aiming reticle has been added to Wii Edition 
 instead of the laser-sight used in other versions, and you can see it even when your weapon isnt 
 drawn. This will let you at least be aiming in the general direction of enemies before youre even 
 poised to shoot them. Being able to reload your guns and swipe your knife by swinging the remote 
 is also a nice touch. Finally, the dodge sequences and action commands that have you pressing buttons 
 combinations to change the outcome of cutscenes also factor in the motion sensor, and it feels 
 more natural on the Wii. This is a winning case for Wii controls stepping in and really bringing 
 something meaningful to the game without sacrificing precision and actually making the experience 
 better than it otherwise would be. Although if you want to be a huge killjoy, Wii Edition does 
 support the Wiis Classic Controller.
  
  In addition to your other challenges, Ashley will be by your side for a good portion of the game. 
 She cant use any weapons, and she wont take much abuse from the enemies, either. And since the 
 villagers original goal was to kidnap her, theyll do so again, picking her up and whisking her 
 away. If she gets to far away from Leon, youll need to start from the beginning of the last area. 
 This could have potentially been a maddening addition to Resident Evil 4, but thankfully Ashley 
 is just as smart as your opponents; shell run away from enemies, duck down when you aim near her, 
 and stick behind you when youre swiping your knife. You can also tell her to hold up or hide in 
 the occasional dumpster to keep her safe.
  
  Amidst so many perilous situations, the occasional refuge will come to you in the form of a mysterious 
 merchant, who will sell you new weapons and some much-needed healing items in exchange for the 
 former Spanish currency, the peseta. Although the merchant marks his presence with gloomy blue 
 flames, youll grow evermore appreciative of these ominous safe zones. Leon will be able to sell 
 a variety of treasures you happen upon on his mission to make ends meet. Interestingly, youll 
 also be able to spend rather large sums of money to upgrade your current weapons capabilities. 
 You can improve the damage done by weapons as well as get better reloading and firing speeds, and 
 even adjust how many bullets they can chamber before having to reload. Although reloading a third 
 of a second faster may not seem like much, youll soon learn to appreciate these upgrades in Resident 
 Evil 4, and the shop system is a nice addition.
  
  Even in the middle of the innumerable death-defying moments youll play through, it is still easy 
 to take in the deliciously dark scenery. Resident Evil 4 was one of the best-looking games on the 
 Gamecube and Playstation 2, and it still looks fantastic on the Wii. Leon and all of his foes look 
 great and completely at home in the gloomy, earthy-toned backdrops. The game also has a grimy filter 
 layered on top of it that makes it look even better. Some of the later enemies and boss creatures 
 in particular look spectacular and menacing. The audio design is even better, with superb Dolby 
 Pro Logic II support and crystal clear encoding on all of the sound effects, from the brutal, fleshy 
 scrapes of a pitchfork to the commanding blast of the Riot Shotgun. Memorable and spooky music 
 kicks in when things get tricky for Leon but fades out to apprehensive ambience otherwise. In a 
 Wii-specific addition, knife and weapon reload effects also come through the remotes speaker, 
 which is a nice touch. The games voice acting, though occasionally awkward, is also well delivered.
 
  
  All told, Resident Evil 4 is roughly a 15 to 20-hour game; about twice the length of most of its 
 competition. Considering how unique and exciting each moment of it is, that really says something, 
 especially since it is selling substantially cheaper than your average Wii game. So while the game 
 just isnt quite as impressive as it was two years ago on the Gamecube, Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition 
 is still well worth your time and money, even if youve already played it elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fregosteg
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  The Gameplay is absolutely amazing i love the Wii controls especially the dodging and aiming. Also 
 the difficulty is perfect and it makes the game interesting. The game is also the perfect Length 
 it is not too long or too short it is perfect. Basically the game is Perfect. Although the only 
 complaint i have is that they improved the game so much in the way of the controls and gmaeplay 
 but did nothing to improve the graphics. Also i love the part were you play as Agent Ada Wong. 
 AGAIN I MUST SAY THAT RESIDENT EVIL 4 IS THE BEST GAME TO EVER COME OUT ON THE GAME CUBE AND NOW 
 ON THE WII 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigcalkenobi
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 24, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  RE4 for the Wii is pretty much flawless. To start, the controls are brilliant. This is one of the 
 few times that a developer other than Nintendo has really used what all the Wii-mote has to offer. 
 Its very simple, to you aim with the Wii-mote, you hold down the triger to aim the gun, and you 
 hit A to fire. Then to use the auto-aim knife, you just swing the controller. You move with the 
 nunchuck and use the Z button to run. It works incredibly well and feels very natural. Then there 
 is the sound. Even by today's standards the sound is exceptional. The guns sound realistic, the 
 creatures sound scart and matches the body of it. I like the touch they added using the Wii-mote 
 speaker, especially when using the shotgun. Even 2 1/2 years later the sound is very exceptional 
 and outstanding.
  
  Then there is the gameplay that is extremely addicting. You have to shoot hords of Gandos (basically 
 a smarter faster Zombie) with limited ammo. Watching your ammo isn't really as bad as you would 
 think seeing as you pic up quite a bit of it in the game, but there are a few times when you have 
 to be careful how much you use. then you have the boss fights that are usually very engaging. It 
 is important to note that if you've played any of the other versions, they've toned down the bosses' 
 difficulty. Once you make another run on pro mode, it won't be as noticable. There are tons of 
 extras in this game. Once you beat the main game, this opens up basically a whole nother game. 
 After you complete the game, there is seperate ways, which is where you play things through Ada's 
 point of view for several chapters. There is also a very engaging game called the mercenaries. 
 You basically just shoot lots of Gandos for points and get star rankings. It will take quite a 
 while to unlock the bonuses behind merccinaries. Then their is also pro mode after the main game 
 that greatly increases the dificulty of the game, and is a good way to test your skills. There 
 is also another side mission with Ada. Most of these extra missions unlock really fun and useful 
 guns. so you get your moneys worth for a $50 game, yet this game only cost $30, so its definitly 
 worth the money.
  
  Then the lowest point of the game is suprisingly the visuals. While there really is no complaining 
 about the awesome visuals in RE4, the game has been around for 2 1/2 years, therefore, the graphics 
 lose their once completly stunning and break through look they had before. The graphics are still 
 really awesome, but compared to titles on the 360 and what the Wii could've put out, they aren't 
 as good as they used to be. I was a little disappointed that Capcom didn't try to enhance the visuals 
 at all. I really wish they ould have used the Wii's extra horsepower to enhance a bit. This is 
 no reason o even question the games greatness, because they are still very beautiful graphics and 
 are better tahn any last gen game. This game really is unbeatable in temrs of value. Its so cheap 
 and for what you get, its worth every penny. Everything in this game is flawless except fot the 
 graphics, that are still really nice, they have just aged a bit like all games do. It is absolutly 
 no reason to nott buy this game unless you already own it on another console. Even if you do own 
 this on another system ( I own the GC version) , I highly reccomend this. The controls make the game 
 so much fun to play. Then there are all the extras that weren't on the GC version that are on the 
 Wii version. If you want a violent, long action adventure survival game, this is the best choice 
 of all. If you want a new Wii game, this is also one of the best choices. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unbiasgamer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 24, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  First of all, the graphics are breath taking. Im am in no way exagerrating that RE4's visuals are 
 beautiful, not only compared to Wii games, but to any game on any platform. Obviously there are 
 little problems such as a small portion of a man's cape will clip into his hand, but these are 
 so few in number and severity I may as well not mentioned them. Until you have seen this game, 
 you havent seen the Wii's true graphical potential.
  
  The gameplay is equally outstanding. There are no tacked on control elements that are added in 
 other games. You control Leon (the main character) with the control stick, aim with the wii-mote 
 and perform various tasks with the face buttons. Swinging the wii-mote left or right will cause 
 Leon to swing his knife should enemies come to close. Your stunned/ wounded foes can also be kicked 
 in the upper body resulting in a fantastic diplay of blood and guts. Never in a game have I seen 
 such a realistic looking skull fragment. On a whole, the gameplay just feels complete, like its 
 all there. There is nothing to complain about.
  
  The sound effests are just plain awesome. The sounds of your weapon reloading can be heard through 
 your wii-mote speaker. When you blow a guys head off with a shotgun, you actually feel like you 
 made his head explode. It just sounds that great, especially with the eery sound track.
  
  Basically, if you have a Wii, get this game. I payed 35 dollars (CDN) for RE4 and it was worth 
 every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joeyturd
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 24, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  I do own the game cube version. And so I had to see what everyone was going GA GA for. Well... Its 
 the controls , thats it. The graphics are the same. The story is still scary. But I would not buy 
 this just for the controls . They could of made at least an improvement in the picture quality. 
 If you have not played this game before and own a Wii I say get it. Can't beat the price. But other 
 wise wait for resident evil 5. I bet if they keep the control style for RE 5 It will be a hit. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickyloi
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 24, 2007 1:15 am PT
Review:  I'm one of those sad sacks who's never played either the Gamecube or PS2 version, and I was psyched 
 when I heard it was coming out for the Wii. Ever though it's a port, it certainly doesn't play 
 like one, and I can't even imagine how one would play the game on a controller (though I could 
 just stick it a GC controller to find out) . My impression of the game is just absolute awe. Having 
 read about the graphics, the storyline, the variety, nothing prepared me for the gameplay. It's 
 difficult enough to be challenging, but levels are never hard enough to be impossible or frustrating. 
 But novice gamers would who like to run and gun would this game annoying. It takes brain power, 
 quick reflexes, and a steady hand to really get through this game. Spectacular game, it certainly 
 is worth the purchase. Especially if you've never played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: egilliland
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 24, 2007 12:23 am PT
Review:  The game is just amazing. it is only 30 $ and is the best game out for Wii right now so go and 
 and buy it now. Because 30$ is such a good price for such a good game. The Wii remote controls 
 and simple and fun and game play is amazing. The only thing I would add is the ability to strafe 
 and dodge on a regular basis. Also, in all the cut scenes you can use the Wii remote dodge and 
 fight people which is cool too. In the game you play as Leon who is a secret agent for the US, 
 he is sent on a mission to find the presidents daughter. The plot is really good and it has twists 
 and turns the entire way through. The Boss fights are also really fun and they try to mix up what 
 you have to do to beat them. This game is great go check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pacrone
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 11:53 pm PT
Review:  RE4 was the game that reinvented the survival horror genre and breathed new life into what was 
 becoming a stale franchise. Gone were the awkward camera angles and tank-like control scheme the 
 series was known for, enter a new over the shoulder camera and pin point aiming with analog control. 
 Not to mention graphics that pushed the Gamecube to the limit. So With a game this great why port 
 it over to the Wii when you can already play the GC game in Nintendo's new system? Simple control. 
 The new motion control adds alot to an already great game. No longer will you have to worry about 
 fighting with a control stick to aim your weapon, now you just point and shoot. Granted it takes 
 a little time to get the analog stick on the nunchuck and the Wii-mote in sync to perfect your 
 aiming, but once you get it down it works silky smooth.
  
  Visually, the game remains unchanged, but it is now presented in true progressive widescreen so 
 anyone who bought component cables will be treated with a sharper picture that the original game. 
 This edition also includes the Separate Ways missions from the PS2 and PC versions of the game 
 and are a nice added bonus for those that only played the GC version. So the big question: Do you 
 buy this game if you already own other versions of the game? That's really up to the individual 
 but I will say this, having completed the original almost 2 years ago I was jazzed to play through 
 it again with the new features. As far as anyone who hasn't played it at all it's a no brainer; 
 go out and get it ASAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vash92
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 23, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Resident evil 4 orginal came out on the gamecube and then went to the ps2. Now its on the nintendo 
 wii. Anyway to the review!
  
  1. gameplay: The gameplay is different from the ps2 and gamecube because of the wii's controls. 
 You use the nunchuck analog stick to move leon and wii mote to do actions like shoot. The wii mote 
 you use to aim at the screen and blast away at the enemys. A really cool addtion is you can swing 
 the wii mote right and leon will take out his knife and swing at his target or object. The game 
 has cutscenes where you can avoid certain death by pressing a+b or swinging the wii-mote left. 
 2. graphics: The graphics a great, but not that great because capcom should've at least made the 
 game look a lot more fresh since this is on a next-gen conslole. The games graphics are better 
 then the ps2 and little worse than the gamecube.
  
  3. sound: The sound in the game sounds fantastic. The voice actting is great and the sound affects 
 alongside the action is wonderful
  
  4: value: The game has replay value to play on professional mode or play with the extra content 
 from the ps2. No new wii content though.
  
  all together resident evil 4 is a really good game and should not be rented...... it should be bought 
 . In the end you have a really great time with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniac_dan274
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil has been around for a decade, gamers screens all around the world glowing with the 
 sight of zombies, explosions, and for the oldies, bad voice acting. Resident Evil 4 hit Nintendo 
 Gamecube a few years back and it became an instant classic. Soon after it hit shelves again for 
 Playstation 2 which meant things had to be improved by adding in a new gameplay mode, but also 
 the ps2 brought us loading screens and half-assed graphics that didn't need changing. a year or 
 so after re4 was released for pc but was a huge disappointment as, again, the graphic were put 
 down lower and there was no mouse support. Although the Resident Evil 4 alone could be considered 
 it's own series alone with already 3 ports at different times, it comes back again to the original 
 source, Nintendo!
  
  Nintendo has taken their blockbuster hit and remapped the controls, upped the graphics back to 
 Gamecube standards and put it on Nintendo Wii. the controls are a little bit tricky at first, the 
 only real confusing part is the inventory screen can get confusing to use. Wii's revolutionary 
 controller makes use of two styles of aiming, the nunchuck to do basic aim and the wiimote for 
 more precise aim. Knifing is easier as well in this, with a basic swing of the wiimote at anytime 
 will give a an auto-aimed knife slash. Shooting is easier then ever with a point and click system 
 (think Duck Hunt) . The Wii version also features the ps2's extra game play mode. The graphics have 
 been brought back up to gamecube standards and the loading screens are still around but not as 
 bad as ps2's forever loading. Sound has also been upped now that the game features in-remote sound, 
 now you can hear the gun reload in the palm of your own hand, just like real life huh kids? This 
 game is also a great bargain at $34.99 Canadian, this means that even if you have played the game 
 your not emptying your wallet on the same game twice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jirouxni
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Never finishing the Gamecube version of the game (I lost it before I could beat it) I decided to 
 buy the version on the Wii. With it's $30 pricetag and new controls this game seemed better than 
 the first. As I anxiously pop the game into my console I tried to remember playing it on the gamecube 
 for the first time. I remebered I was awed by the gorgeous graphics and the AI was amazing. When 
 the game cut to the first cutscene I was a little let down that the game didn't have the same sparkle 
 as when I first played it, but they are still the best the wii has to offer. The game looks the 
 same, but for the past two years graphics have changed. It's not about the graphics though right 
 it's about the gameplay. Since this version is on the wii the game uses motion sensing for the 
 guns Leon uses. Instead of the red laser beam used in the other version Leon has a standard round 
 target reticle to shoot his enemies. This makes targeting easier. To control to shoot you point 
 the wii-mote toward the enemy you want to shoot, easy enough. But if there is an enemy off screen 
 to shoot you have to use the nun chuck analog to move the camera. This makes it tense when there 
 are alot of enemies on the screen at once. There than that the controls work pretty smooth and 
 you have the choice of using three controllers (Classic, Gamecube and Wii) . The story of the game 
 is the same as the other installments but it also has the Agent Ada Wong story that was introduced 
 in the PS2 version. Leon has to save the presidents daughter and all that good stuff. The game 
 still has the erry feel of resident evil and brings a good deal of tense to the game. If you never 
 played this game, it's a must have for the Wii. If you have played it before It also is a good 
 buy ($30, Bonuses, Controls) . This game should tied us over till the realeses of Umbrella Conflicts 
 and Resident Evil 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zell1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 23, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  man this game rocks u can go on boats shot the heck outa zumbis and be scared at the same time 
 and u have great weapons a harpoon for the fish mixed herbs and all game spot this game deserves 
 more than 9.1 on wii i should give it a ten but the olny game title deserves a ten is u know what 
 i shouldnt have to mentions the legents name and cant wait till res evil 5 comes out man im so 
 mad cause i think its only gonna be out for ps3 which i dont have cuz i dont have the money well 
 anyways enough talk bout being scared of res evil 4 just play it and ull find out y i almost peed 
 on my self 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmish82
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  When RE4 for the Gamecube was released back in 2004, it took over as the best video game I have 
 ever played. It had everything I could ask for in a game. When it was re-released for the PS2 with 
 additional content, I never got to check it out. Now that it's been released on the Wii with the 
 PS2 content and new aiming system, I had to check it out.
  
  RE4 for the Wii is actually better than the original release on the GC. It took me about an hour 
 and a half of gameplay to get the aiming system down, but once I did, I can truly say it is much 
 better than using an analog stick to aim. It is much more natural and it is much easier to target 
 specific areas of targets such as making headshots.
  
  If you've never played the game, the story is actually very engaging. There's a couple hokey parts, 
 but what game doesn't have that? You play as Leon Kennedy and are trying to find and rescue the 
 President's daughter. Along the way you find that villagers have been taken over by parasites and 
 are after you. The story progresses from here, taking on some twists and turns that will not let 
 you down.
  
  The sound is still incredibly creepy in this game. It does a phenomenal job of keeping you on edge 
 throughout the game. The graphics still look good, but are just a tad dated for 2007. 3 years later, 
 I can't name one single bad thing about this game. It really delivers on all aspects. The only 
 thing I can knock it for which I've already mentioned is that it would have been nice to see the 
 graphics spruced up a bit, but other than that this game is solid. If you've never played RE4, 
 do so now. If you've already played RE4, pick it up for the Wii. You will not be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo_holic
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 23, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  The people that have or have played RE4 on other consoles should play the Wii edition again! RE4 
 GC was my favorite on that system so when Capcom announced a Wii edition of this game I had a mix 
 feeling. I was excited about the new control on Wii but I was also afraid that they would do a 
 bad job porting it to the Wii. Anyway, I still decided to give it a try when the Wii edition came 
 out. It took me like 10-20 minutes to get used to the new control. It is a bit awkward (this is 
 probably the only complain I have) because you need to press the B button to raise the gun and 
 press A button to shoot. Should it be the opposite control instead? So pressing the B button to 
 fire would be more like firing a gun? The gameplay is still exciting and intense. You can aim a 
 lot easier and get more headshots! You can also easily shoot off the weapons that the zombies throw 
 at you. If you want to save some bullets you can also aim at the zombies' knees a lot faster now 
 to make them kneel and run toward them to do some action commands. That's a way to save yourself 
 some bullets!
  
  When I first played RE4 GC on my old CRT tv, I was really amazed by the graphic. But I didn't get 
 the same feeling when I was playing the RE4 Wii edition on my current LCD tv. I think it is probably 
 because I already got amazed once or I have played some other next gen consoles. But no matter 
 what, RE4 Wii edition is still a classic and must get for all Wii owners! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkrul3s
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 is one of the greatest games of all time. I absolutely love it. When zombies attacked 
 me I practically had a heart attck. The game is really good.
  
  Gameplay (10) : The game is really innovative. It feels a lot better to use a Wii-mote to aim and 
 fire. Fighting zombies could never be more fun.
  
  Graphics (10) : The graphics are some of the best graphics on the Wii to date. Maybe not technically 
 but definitely artistically.
  
  Sound (10) : Lets just say that the sound of chainsaws, moaning zombies swearing in spanish, and 
 the bullets piercing into the chests of your enemies couldn't get any better.
  
  Value (10) : The replay value on this game is amazing!!! This game has the best of all versions 
 of the game into this one game. You have the Ada missions and much more. Killing zombies never 
 gets old.
  
  Tilt (10) : Out of all the RE4 versions of the game this one is definitely the best. Lets just hope 
 that Umbrella Chronicles can live up to this game.
  
  All I have to say is that you have to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luislb88
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 23, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  Variety is the spice of life, and we as gamers are blessed with choices, choices like Which version 
 of Resident Evil 4 should I buy? Should I buy the now superinexpensive PS2 version, which features 
 the superfun Separate Ways content with Ada Wong? Should I buy the recently released PC version, 
 which contains the same stuff in a higher resolution and is also at the same price of $20? Or because 
 I never played any of the other versions, should I buy the Wii version -- which is at a higher 
 price, with tacked-on,  motion control? 
  As amazing as RE4 was on GameCube and PS2, the Wii version arrives asking you to walk, chew gum, 
 instant message, and talk to your mom on the phone all at once, and that's what holds this version 
 back. It seems like a match made in heaven: RE4 action mapped to near-FPS-style controls. But moving 
 your character with the Nunchuk's analog doesn't aim; it only moves your field of view, often leaving 
 enemies out of view unless you wave the Wii Remote around as well and hold B while pressing A to 
 shoot. Essentially, it's more complicated than it sounds -- and a step more involved than the PS2 
 or GC versions -- which saps some of the fun out of it. The Separate Ways missions (which is practically 
 a whole new game) that first appeared in the PS2 version are intact, and this means fans aren't 
 getting cheated, especially considering the low price. But it's amazing how a game that once looked 
 so good can look so dated after a couple years of seeing games in high-def, especially after seeing 
 the PC version in action.
  If you've never played this game before, you should first ask yourself, Why not? But if you haven't, 
 there are better and cheaper options than this  version 
 for Wii. And if you have played Resident Evil 4, in all its infested  
 mayhem, then there's still really not much reason to investigate what this version has to offer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucky-22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 22, 2007 11:32 pm PT
Review:  The game is extraordinary and exciting. it's fun, if it wasn't for this 100 word minimum for a 
 review, i would've left it as is ending with it's fun 
  
  the game was boring at first, and controls a bit awkward to look around
  running was annoying 
 since it's slow and sometimes you need extremely fast nascar-like reactions to do the button action 
 to dodge or duck 
  
  but then an hour into it, it became so fun and addicting. i accidentally spent 12 hrs.
  
  bad 
 thing is that i'm already 50% through the game.
  
  the game is really fun, and i suggest renting it since the game can be beaten in a day (depending 
 how much of a gamer you are)
  
  the keeping-value of this game isn't that high so own it if you're a resident evil fan or if you 
 take a long time to beat games
  
  this is a must play game for the wii (it's about time there are more fun games out there for the 
 wii) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheStealthGhost
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 22, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best shooter for wii. I mean red steel sucked, I was beggining to think all wii 
 games would suck, until i bought this game. I was thinking Well its worth a shot it was one of 
 the best games for gamecube . But it is truly amazing. The graphics are by far the best that I've 
 seen on wii so far. But the graphics are still a little last gen. the sound is great, but can be 
 distracting. but thats it. The game has an aiming system that feesls so natural as if your at the 
 arcade. I cant believe this game. It's so cool to Shoot at a zombies head and it explodes and then 
 a giant neck parasite comes out! I love the selection of weapons there is soooooooooo many. I honestly 
 don't know what to say about it. I can't express how good the game truly is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VeggieOverlord
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 22, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep it short: If you are one of the twelve people that have yet to play Resident Evil 4 on 
 either the PS2 or the Gamecube this is your best opportunity. At a slim $30 and packing the graphics 
 of the GCN version along with the extra content of the PS2 and new and innovative controls utilizing 
 the Wiimote the game is damn near a steal. Enough has been said about Resident Evil 4 in the last 
 two years: Incredible graphics, immersive and fast pace action, downright chilling sound, a lengthy 
 adventure, and most importantly a level of polish that is rarely seen. Fortunately, none of this 
 has changed. Sure, the game won't blow you away like it did in 2005, but it still looks very crisp 
 and is definitely not uneasy on the eyes. The gameplay however as stated earlier, takes full advantage 
 of the Wiimote and the Nunchuk accessory. Many wondered how the Wiimote would work with this game. 
 Rest assured, the Wiimote handles the task beautifully. You aim and shoot with the Wiimote while 
 you move with the Nunchuk. After a few minutes it feels so natural that you'll never be able to 
 go back to playing the traditional way again. Also, a auto aim function has been added to the knife 
 due to the fact that you can swipe the wiimote to use the knife. This is a very useful feature, 
 to say the least. Also, the cutscenes take advantage of the Wiimote's motion sensor capibilites. 
 It makes a two year old game seem very fresh and actually makes it more enjoyable in numerous ways. 
 Everything is just so fluid when using the Wiimote. Aiming and certain action sequences do become 
 a bit easier thanks to the extra level of control, but the game is still a challenge that will 
 take you upwards of 15 hours to complete.
  
  If you have a Wii and love Resident Evil 4, or have never played it before, pick it up. Period. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kdelima
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 22, 2007 10:58 pm PT
Review:  I along with the rest of the world loved RE4 on the Nintendo GameCube two years ago. It promised 
 to take the series in a completely different direction and it truly did. It was an instant success 
 the graphics were unbelievable and the action redefined the word. Almost a year later a PS2 port 
 is released and also became a huge success. The PS2 version couldn't keep up with the GameCube's 
 graphics but it made up for it with loads of extra content to give gamer's a second chance to go 
 at it again. Early 2007, RE4 is announced to be re-re-released on the Nintendo Wii. At first I 
 was a little sceptical because to be honest I had played the game through several times and based 
 on what I have seen graphics-wise on the Wii so far, I doubted the graphics would be as good as 
 the it's original game for the GC. A couple months pass and the Wii's library of games has progressively 
 turned to garbage so there was not a doubt in my mind that the $29.99 RE4 for the Wii would be 
 just awful. After reading Gamespot's review i didn't believe my eyes; 2 years after its release 
 and it gets a 9.1 for the Wii. That was enough to buy it. I just beat it and I must say it is truly 
 a great release for the Nintendo Wii. It's the same great game it was two years ago just with some 
 really great additions. Resident Evil 4 is the first game on the Wii that truly shows off the power 
 of the Wii-mote . The control scheme is arguably better than the GameCube's. You move Leon around 
 this time using the Numchuck and to take aim, simply hold B on the Wii-mote (switching from over 
 the back to over the shoulder) and point at the screen and shoot. The laser sight used in the first 
 two releases is replaced with a aiming circle that is turns red if you are going to hit something. 
 To make use of Leon's handy little knife simply swing the Wii-mote and hear the satisfying swoosh 
 through the Wii-mote's speaker. To reload, While holding B flick the Wii-mote and again hear the 
 satisfying noise of your gun reloading (each noise is different for each gun) . The Wii-mote's speaker 
 really shows off for the first time with Resident Evil 4. The $29.99 Wii version of RE4 also has 
 all the extra content found on the PS2 version. Resident Evil 4 is easily the best gaming experience 
 on the Nintendo Wii, being one of the cheapest it's idiocy for any Wii owner not to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SC_George
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2007 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 was, is, and will surely remain the best action game out there. The Wii Edition 
 takes this amazing game and makes it even better by taking the graphical quality of the Gamecube 
 version, the great extras in the Playstation 2 version and wrapping them together with a control 
 scheme that easily rivals the perfection of the original's. Resident Evil 4 first hit the Gamecube 
 back in January of 2005 and was a huge success. It revamped the whole Resident Evil style of gameplay, 
 making it feel much less like controlling a tank, and more like a true action game. And it had 
 great graphics and sound to boot. Yes, RE4 was a huge step in gaming and many games have tried 
 to take the gameplay style of RE4 (most notably GRAW for the Xbox 360) and have failed to make 
 one that can even hold a candle to RE4's greatness. Later on in October of that same year, RE4 
 was put on the Playstation 2 and it transfered the amazing game almost flawlessly. The only real 
 fault in the PS2 version of the game was that it lacked that same graphical polish that the Gamecube 
 version had, but it more then made up for this flaw with the extras that were packed in with the 
 game. You got a whole new set of missions to play as Ada Wong, you got new weapons, you got new 
 costumes and finally you got RE4: The Missionaries, a great little game that sort of felt like 
 RE4: Death Match . And now the piece de resistance is here, RE4: Wii Edition. This is, BY FAR, 
 the best version of the game, taking the great graphics of the Gamecube version and combining it 
 with the extras featured in the PS2 version. But not just that, it adds a control scheme that takes 
 full advantage of the Wiimote's motion capabilities. And this of course is the main draw to the 
 game, that is, for people who have played the PS2 version. For people who have only played the 
 GC version, the extras will surely be another draw, not to mention the nice price tag. Overall, 
 the Wii Edition is the definitive version of Resident Evil 4. It plays, looks and sounds incredible 
 and is certainly the best action game, and the best Wii game to date. Even for those who have played 
 either previous versions, or even both versions, RE4 Wii Edition is hard not to recomend, and it 
 is definately a game worthy of being in everyones Wii library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christian1993
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 22, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. There is so many additions at least since the GC version, not shure about 
 PS2. The controls are perfect and the game is awesome. I had the GC version and i loved, but this 
 for the wii i way better. every wii owner needs to get it or atleast think about getting because 
 it is awesome. The first day i actually had a chance to play it i played it all day. If you have 
 played the beaten the game before it is very easy, i beat it in 9 hours. after you beatthe game 
 believe it or not you really havent beaten it because there are 3 other games (not as long as the 
 actual game but Mercenaries can take a while) . I have played it like 10 plus hours in like 1 day 
 and that is alot for me. I recommend getting it, its a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonnyboy1013
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  it is the most fun i have had on the wii. it is a little difficult but i couldn't stop playing 
 it. the controls take some time getting use to but it is to fun. the game also has a mysterious 
 sotyline that makes u want to play more and more just to find out what happens next. just like 
 any horror game it has parts that will freak u out but the game just doesnt get old. u keep playing 
 and playing until ur fingers are numb or until u have been stuck on a part for more than an hour. 
 other than that u wont stop playing the game until u beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f5lesnar2000
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 22, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  In 2005 Capcom released Resident Evil 4 for the GameCube, at the time it was clearly the GameCube's 
 ultimate masterpiece. Several months later the Playstation 2 received the game with some additions 
 such as new costumes, a new weapon, and a new side story for Ada. Now, two years later, the ultimate 
 version of Resident Evil 4 hits the Nintendo Wii. As I've already written a review for the GameCube 
 version, I'll mearly outline the differences in the Wii version. The first and most obvious is 
 the excellent use of the Wii-mote. You use the Nunchuck to move around, B raises your weapon and 
 then when you aim with the Wii-mote press A to let the lead fly. The game is a wonder to play but 
 getting used to the new controls may take a while for those who were so used to playing the game 
 with either the GameCube or Playstation 2 controller. When it comes to aiming, its never been easier, 
 precise aiming makes it easier to hit smaller targets without missing. Even though the game still 
 looks the same as the GameCube version it is still one of the most visually impressive games I've 
 seen on the Wii thus far. The game offers true widescreen support and all the extras of the Playstation 
 2 version. The game was revolutionary was it first debuted, and is still the same 2 years later. 
 Simply put, thanks to the Wii-mote mechanics, this is the ultimate form of Resident Evil 4, and 
 should be enjoyed by everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: machod_19
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 22, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Overall i thought this game should of got a 9.8 atleast. The controls are great, it sounds cool, 
 and it even looks good. I think the only problem is that there is no added content. They should 
 of made the stroy longer, by putting in more mission, or maybe extended the Ada Wong missions.
 
  
  I think this game is a must have even if you have already beat the game. Or if you havent this 
 is a must have because it is just great. I would rank it as one of the best Wii games ever next 
 to Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, and Super Paper mario. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CanadianGamer1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 10, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  I'm gonna keep this short and sweet. If you've played this game on another system you are not going 
 to find anything new in the material but the gameplay is the best of any console. This game is 
 great because of the wiimote. period And if you have never played RE4 before you absolutelt must 
 pick this game up. It is an instant classic. This game strings together nice visuals, great sound, 
 amazing gameplay and a good story into one nice (cheap) package. All in all this game is the best 
 RE4 on the market however it kind of dissapoints because there are no wii only content. So u are 
 pretty much playing the same game over agin with the wiimote, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Knight6
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 22, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Originally released in 2005 for the Nintendo Gamecube, Resident Evil 4 makes it's onto the Wii 
 in the form of Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition. RE4: Wii Edition is a port of the GameCube version 
 with all the extra features of the PS2 version. Even though it's a port, the Wii-mote controls 
 make it feel new. The game stars Leon S. Kennedy, who works for the president after the events 
 of Raccoon City. The president's daughter, Ashley Graham, has been kidnapped by a mysterious cult. 
 You start in the middle of the woods with a handgun, a knife, and a first-aid spray. Events turn 
 bad as Leon is attacked by the Spanish-speaking villagers. But luckily he is saved by the bell. 
 When using the Wii-mote, the laser sight from the other versions is replaced by a reticule, which 
 turns red when aiming at an enemy. This also decreases the difficulty. You can also hook up a gamecube 
 controller or classic controller instead. The controls are simple but take some time to get used 
 to. To aim, you hold in B and shoot with A. When in aiming mode, you move the Wii-mote to aim and 
 the analog stick to turn or look up and down. The analog on the nunchuck moves Leon around and 
 the Z button to run and pulling the analog stick back while pressing Z will make Leon make a 180 
 degree turn. The graphics are identical to the gamecube's, allowing the first costume set to be 
 viewable in the cutscenes. Unfortunately, the second set of costumes (Mafia suit/armor) cannot 
 be seen in the cutscenes. Overall, Resident Evil 4 is probably one of the better looking games 
 available on the Wii, at the moment. I'd definitely call Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition the definitive 
 version and a bargain for $30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azlar
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 22, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  A very solid effort. The gameplay is quite enjoyable yet with mediocre graphics and effects. The 
 suspense is nerve racking and adds more elements to this game. The controls on the other hand are 
 amazing. Very swift and responsive. One complaint that I have is that the difficulty is quite high 
 this time around. The game drags on and it can become dull at times. In conclusion, this classic 
 game is worth the experience but I bought it second-hand anyway. Its a nice game but not the best 
 that's out there. Once again, a very solid effort and I would definetely recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Capouel123
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 22, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  RE4 is a new beginning for the zombie blasting franchise. Gone is the slower pace and tank-like 
 controls, replaced by some pretty fast paced action and an intriguing story. As someone who had 
 never played RE4 on the Gamecube or the Playstation 2 (or the PC thank God) I was blown away by 
 the quality of this so called Wii-make. Gameplay: I must admit that it took me a while to get used 
 to the gameplay. The control stick controls where Leon walks as well as in what direction he aims. 
 The D-pad controls where Leon looks, which is DIFFERENT from where he aims. As a veteran of the 
 Godfather: Blackhand Edition, it took me a while to get used to the D-pad not controlling where 
 the character aims. Finally, the Wii remote controls where Leon aims his weapon. All of the intereactive 
 cutscenes work quite well with motion controls. For example, you might have to wave the Wii remote 
 back and forth while running away from a rolling boulder or use it to shake off enemies. In conclusion, 
 the Wii controls allow for a lot of precision, but they may take a bit of getting used to for some 
 people.
  
  Graphics: Pretty much the same as the Gamecube version of the game, the graphics still shine as 
 some of the best on the Wii. I'm not saying that Wii games look bad; it's just that RE4 looked 
 so good on the Gamecube that the graphics still hold up today. Especially impressive are Leon's, 
 Ashley's and Ada's character models, which look fantastic.
  
  Sound: The minimalist presentation of the music works well for the game. The grunts and cries of 
 pain from the villagers is also done well, although one woman in the village sounds like a cat... And 
 then there's the chainsaw. When you hear that chainsaw roar to life in the midst of a battle, you 
 really need to find out where it's coming from.
  
  Value: With all of the extras from both the GC and PS2 versions, this game isn't short on replay 
 value. The unlockable costumes for each character also look like they will be pretty funny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tromaj
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 22, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  This game has the best gameplay of any Wii title to date. I love my fair share of party games &amp; 
 quirky silliness, but the Wii definitely has a deficit of action/horror games. Of any adult games, 
 come to think of it. This one will fill in the gap until the system matures and more games start 
 to come out. Luckily, I never played the original so I'm in for a completely new experience. So 
 if you need to fill in some time with gore while you save up for a 360, buy this one. Unrelentling 
 evil abounds, without useless gore. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_zelda_dude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 22, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  The only question you really must ask is which console to buy this game on. It really says alot 
 that this game can be ported on 3 different systems and still earn a superb score. Yet through 
 the 3, I have to say the Wii is the best, though the others are great too. The thrills are still 
 here and everything you came to expect from this game is here. The Controls were the major thing 
 I was looking forward to, RE4 seemed perfect for the WII's gameplay.
  And the controls were smooth, gamespot said it softened the gameplay? I guess they made the controls 
 *too* good then, I guess game companies should stop trying there hardest at making the control 
 scheme good.
  You've probably seen RE4 and know all about it, but here you'll be swinging your Wii remote around 
 which is enough of an excuse for me to play through this masterpiece a 3rd time.
  There are some small fun features like always at the end of the game, that will probably make you 
 want to play it through AGAIN, but even without those, I bet you'd do it anyways. This is a must 
 buy for the Wii, or I should say a must steal, since this game is only $30.
  2 words
  get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xL-phrutz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 22, 2007 1:24 am PT
Review:  okay im an RE fan and i have played almost all of them... but this one is my favorite for some 
 reason it is so new and fun... there are many new things to it like some of the dialoge the controls 
 the graphics etc. i played it on the GCN and nonstop played same here i cant stop playing it is 
 so addicting. It is a must buy for 30 USD. also it is totally diffrent controls from RE-2 it has 
 much more easier to handle. if you buy this u wont be upset because you wont be able to stop playing 
 waving the wiimote around to slash the knife aiming precise to get headshots. xD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcanefelix
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2007 10:53 pm PT
Review:  *To begin with, I must highly recommend people who finished this game on previous consoles to rent 
 this game instead of purchasing. Although it is still a low-budget title, it is still the same 
 game with the same content (as the PS2 Version) and the only difference is the controls, therefore 
 people may find that quite unreasonable as to the fact the it costs $30 for different controls*
 
  
  Gameplay: If you are a resident evil fan and has never played RE4 before, then you're in for a 
 treat. That is because RE 4 Wii edtion is basically the best version of all the RE4's available 
 on each system. This is basically because of its diverse control config. Not only is there no need 
 to remember controls, you can even aim with the wii remote. Even people who have played this game 
 in the past is very entertained by its new and improved controls as it offers a totally different 
 atmosphere to the game. In all, the gameplay is simply the best part of the whole game. Graphics: 
 The graphics were outstanding in 2004 and 2006, but right now its 2007 and theres not much that 
 is improved here. It's not that the graphics are neccesarily bad, but then it just looks a bit 
 dated and it just seems that the developers at least could've tweaked the graphics a bit to look 
 better for the Wii Version of the game, but its just all the same as the PS2 version. (480p, progressive 
 scan)
  
  Sound: The sound is still jsut the same as the previous versions. Outstanding . The sound effects 
 are great and the music used in the game is very well chosen as it creates a specific atmosphere 
 in the game which really contributes to the whole experience.
  
  Overall: The game is a very good port due to the Wii Controls. The only things that were missing 
 or felt like they were missing was the fact that Capcom did not put as much effort to add more 
 content or make the game look a bit better. For all I know, this is just the PS2 version with Wii 
 Controls, but does it make it a bad game thats not enjoyable? Absoloutely not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reactionsok
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 21, 2007 10:29 pm PT
Review:  A Wii Must-have game! 1st game i felt compelled to write about. Great gameplay, spooky, and most 
 of all fun! I was equally impressed with the graphics! Smooth animations and all.
  
  I just wish i could duck : ( The game is definitely more on the difficult side - though easy to 
 shoot creatures - just have 2 act quickly
  
  I also which there was a quicker way to swap weapons.
  
  Well i highly recommend this game 
 - it keeps you on your toes and your always wanting to play more!
  
  Certainly i also feel that this is one title that belongs in your collection!!!1
  
  adf asdf 
 asdf adsf asdf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSPplayer04
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 21, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  If you have never played this before and own a Wii get it! Its worth $30... If you own it already 
 on a different system and play it alot I guess its a good purchase.
  
  Gameplay: Good, only problem is shaking the wiimote for most moves but its not a major issue, doesnt 
 get in the way of anything
  
  Graphics : Some of the best on Wii to date!
  
  Sound : Great sound effects
  
  Value : A steal for $30
  
  Tilt : Overall I give this a 
 high A
  
  If you have a Wii and 30 dollars get this game it is worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiftstrike6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  I was amazed from the very second I booted the game up! I was always on my toes! I am so scared 
 all rhe time and I love, and you will too! The wii remote makes it all the more scary too, you 
 feel like you are really in a life-death-situation when those ravenous zombies wrap their bloody 
 arms around you and you must swing your wii remote around to slash, kick, and shoot your way through! 
 Also, the shop is an awesome thing about this game- tuning weapons, buying new ones, ect. oh yeah 
 and for $30? THIS GAME IS GREAT AND IT IS MORE, MUCH MORE, THAN WORTH THE MONEY! I WOULD HAVE EASILY 
 PAYED DOUBLE FOR THIS MASTERPIECE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angelsephiroth2
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  2 years ago i didnt have a Gamecube or PS2 but i bought a Wii and now i know why Resident Evil 
 4 was getting very well reviews on every website and magazine. If u hate zombie games buy this 
 and it will changer ur view on the genre. Cuz if u dont like bein able to blow a chainsaw weilding 
 zombies head off ur not normal. The game is hard and long but u will not get angry when u die. 
 Even though the game has a steep learning curve u will en joy this game. It is worth the $33.67 
 i spent on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mahije
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  this is probably tied for first place as my favorite wii game and it is tied with the legend of 
 zelda : twilight princess i loved this for the game cube and now i love it more for the wii with 
 its new control and the extra content of the play station 2's version that i have never played 
 before its a bargain for just 30$ this game is like 20 hours long and features so much extras i 
 think its a definit must buy for those that never played and also those that played should try 
 it out because of the new controls so go now and buy it is only 30 dollars come on what are you 
 waiting for (ok i know the last part was for nothing) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fr_tag_2745
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  the best game cube game makes its was to the wii and it is totally awesome still very fun definitely 
 the best survival action horror game ever made and this is probably my favorite game of all time 
 it has like 20 hours of campaign mode and lots of extras that add like 8 hours more this is definitely 
 a must buy game for those that never played its also a good purchase for those that have played 
 it because the new controls make it awesome , they make it funner (not saying that it wasnt fun, 
 because the when i played it for gamecube it became my favorite game of all time and it still is 
 , but the wii version is better) so with that being said i think its a must get game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boni
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  i played this game on already on game cube and bought it again for the wii and it is still is very 
 fun, the graphics are basically the same but still very awesome, it features the extras of the 
 play station 2 version but with better graphics, and the new controls make it so much fun that 
 you would want to play again, this is definitely a 100% must buy for the people that never played 
 this, its a 90% must buy for the people that only played the game cube version because the extras 
 are very fun, and a 75 % must buy for the people that have played both version because the controls 
 make it so much fun and its only 30 dollars.
  So ths is what i have to say for my favorite game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matrix8909
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  In 2005, Capcom gave Nintendo the latest game in the Resident Evil series, and it was an instant 
 classic and must play. Resident Evil 4 was one of the elusive games in the Capcom 5 (games which 
 were supposed to be exclusives to the Nintendo Gamecube) . By Fall 2005, Resident Evil 4 was ported 
 to the Playstation 2, with extra content, including new costumes, a new weapon and a new mini-game 
 story. This of course annoyed Nintendo owners, since they lost the exclusive game, but would never 
 experience these new features, unless they purchased a PS2.
  
  2 years later, Nintendo once again comes out on top with Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition. It includes 
 all the extra content found in the PS2 version, plus the graphics a slightly tweaked to look sharper 
 and the game is presented in full widescreen. The controls are enhanced, so you when you point 
 the Wiimote, you are aiming Leon's gun.
  
  The game hasn't changed one bit since the original was released, but the use of the Wii controls 
 can be a bit annoying to start, until you get the hang of it (You will die, so be prepared) .
  
  Final Word: This is still an amazing game, no matter what system, no matter what year, no matter 
 where you're playing it or who's playing it. Resident Evil 4 is by far the greatest game in the 
 Survival-Horror genre, and until Resident Evil 5 (PS3, 360) it will remain there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liljio14
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Its basically the same game as the ps2, but it feels intuitive and the controls of the wii-mote 
 don't really feel tacked on. First, lets talk about the presentation of the game. It has the nicest 
 graphics of all of the Resident evil 4s', the sound is nice an the gamplay is chilling. The graphics 
 are some of the best nintendo has been making but still at times you see blurry images and low 
 resolution character models. The gamplay (oddly enough) is really where is game shines. The wii-mote 
 is so fun and addictive there is not turning back to the other consoles for this game. The game 
 is quite long, especially with the ada wong addition. The only part i could gripe about is some 
 of the errors they didn't fix from the original like, how come you still have to pause to change 
 guns and ammo. It really detracts from the chilling expierence This game gives you. Overall it 
 improves on its predecessors even though it is too late, and some of the minor gripes weren't changed. 
 Otherwise i would say this is the ultimate horror game that you MUST pick up for the wii (shortage 
 is finally ending, Awesome!) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  i cant say enough about resident evil for the wii, i hope we see a brand new resident evil soon 
 the wii is great for this type of game. i love the wii remote with game play, i had this game on 
 the cube when it frist came out, and i always thought it was the best game i ever played, it has 
 it all great story great gaint bosses great scary sounds and music, great end boss the talking 
 in the game, its like you are there, all games should be like this it shows what they can do if 
 they want to, i will always have this game in my collection just that good, everything works fine 
 in the game, and for 30 bucks its worth that, go buy it enjoy the wii remote with the game. and 
 for the ones out there that never played resident evil 4 you are in for a real treat for 30 bucks, 
 i love it and played it before and still love the game, thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ganondorf_002
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 21, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Well the best Horror game from GameCube is now on the Wii, with the extra content from PS2 and 
 with the Wii-mote functionalities and everything for 30 bucks!!! (plus tax lol)
  
  Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition Review:
  
  Gameplay:
  This is what a shooter should be, controls 
 nearly perfect that make the Wii Edition special. Shoot, reload, using the knife and the actions 
 cutscenes all with the Wii-mote and this is like new experience this is why this version is a most 
 own for all RE fan or any shooter fan.
  Score: 10/10
  
  Graphics:
  They are still looking good but if you played it on GC you won't be impressed cuz there are no 
 massive change from the GC, now the cutscenes are rendered by the Wii and they look better but 
 nothing else. The game has 16x9, 480p support
  Score: 8/10
  
  Sound:
  The sound is untouched from the GC but now we have sound on the Wii-mote speaker, nice btw. The 
 voice from Los Ganados was and is still funny and great, the sound of the bones when they are crushing, 
 the environments and the music they still good. Some time Los Ganados use the same sound over and 
 over aging but that dont bother me too much.
  Score: 9/10
  
  Value:
  Come on of course is a 10, the best Horror shooting ever with extra content and the best gameplay 
 you will find on the Wii for 30 bucks!!! If you want more, you are crazy.
  Score: 10/10
  
  Overall:
  This is a great game that cant be missed by any shooter or RE fan. The game is 
 pretty long about 18 hours, only the main story but there is a lot of extra content. This game 
 show that the Wii can handle a great gameplay on great shooters and that mean the some developers 
 *cough*Ubisoft*cough* are just making piece of **** titles so please stop doing ugly games cuz 
 the Wii deserve good looking games and with splendid controls!!!!
  
  Final Score: 9.6-SUPERB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ponedore
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 21, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  There is this game called Resident Evil 4 that was a massive hit in the GC era 2 years ago and 
 now Capcoms brings it back with the new wii-focused control scheme. First off, the gameplay, it 
 has good precise aiming, fast head-shots its all that a game like this needed. Secondly, the sound 
 is just great, have the sound on reloading in your hand its a good add-on to the game itself, the 
 kind of repetitive voices of the villagers a por el , detras de ti imbecil gives a good atmosphere 
 but still they say it thousands of times over and over again and thats just annoying at some point.
 
  
  Last but not least. the two-year-ago graphics are, as well as you'll find in any other review of 
 this game, dated and thats just a bad point that those lazy guys from Capcom could have easily 
 updated. I may look inconsistent with what I say about the graphics and the score that I put, but 
 its just because there is no way that a review score should be the average of the rest scores so 
 I cant put a 7-8 without hurting the overall score that this game really deserves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  RE4 is a new beginning for the zombie blasting franchise. Gone is the slower pace and tank-like 
 controls, replaced by some pretty fast paced action and an intriguing story. As someone who had 
 never played RE4 on the Gamecube or the Playstation 2 (or the PC thank God) I was blown away by 
 the quality of this so called Wii-make. Gameplay: I must admit that it took me a while to get used 
 to the gameplay. The control stick controls where Leon walks as well as in what direction he aims. 
 The D-pad controls where Leon looks, which is DIFFERENT from where he aims. As a veteran of the 
 Godfather: Blackhand Edition, it took me a while to get used to the D-pad not controlling where 
 the character aims. Finally, the Wii remote controls where Leon aims his weapon. All of the intereactive 
 cutscenes work quite well with motion controls. For example, you might have to wave the Wii remote 
 back and forth while running away from a rolling boulder or use it to shake off enemies. In conclusion, 
 the Wii controls allow for a lot of precision, but they may take a bit of getting used to for some 
 people.
  
  Graphics: Pretty much the same as the Gamecube version of the game, the graphics still shine as 
 some of the best on the Wii. I'm not saying that Wii games look bad; it's just that RE4 looked 
 so good on the Gamecube that the graphics still hold up today. Especially impressive are Leon's, 
 Ashley's and Ada's character models, which look fantastic.
  
  Sound: The minimalist presentation of the music works well for the game. The grunts and cries of 
 pain from the villagers is also done well, although one woman in the village sounds like a cat... And 
 then there's the chainsaw. When you hear that chainsaw roar to life in the midst of a battle, you 
 really need to find out where it's coming from.
  
  Value: With all of the extras from both the GC and PS2 versions, this game isn't short on replay 
 value. The unlockable costumes for each character also look like they will be pretty funny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainmakerrng
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  It's finally here, the Wii version and it's quite good - surprisingly. Graphically, nothing has 
 changed since the PS2 version and all contents are the same as well. What has changed is how you 
 play the game, it's interactive thanks to the Wii motion sensor - it's a light-gun, 3rd person 
 advanture now. Remember how it was so difficult to shot limbs and head in the previous versions? 
 It was a good system, but was such a hassle. The motion sensor is extremely accurate (stay 3 feet 
 away from the screen) and because of it, the game actually becomes easier. Remember that chainsaw 
 guy ? Most player usually distance themselve from him - gun it down with the shotgun, then finish 
 it off with grenades. Well, thanks to the light-gun gameplay of the Wii, you can handle him with 
 the handgun. Head shots are extremely easy - shot leg, then head.
  
  Playing through this game with this kind of advantage, I wish Capcom had increase the numbers of 
 plague-infested by 5 in each area. And put 2 chainsaw guy in the village.
  
  A thought:
  
  To be quite honest, this whole RE4 mess was Leon's fault. He entered a house without premission 
 carrying a gun, the owner just wants him out. Leon decides to take out his gun and shout! Freeze 
 to the owner who speaks a completely different language, it probably sounded like, I am robbing 
 you different language speaker! - that's why the owner wants Leon out so bad - so Leon decides 
 to shot him in the head. This villager was clearly defending himself. If Leon would just kindly 
 leave and be on his way, maybe his policia pals wouldn't have to be burnt and eaten. Quite an agent 
 Leon IS indeed. It's just like us (US) to send agents to other nations and shot those who can't 
 understand Freeze! . Very like us.
  
  A second thought: Things to try in REAL life situations.
  
  1. If you said, Freeze to people 
 who speaks a completely different language and they don't understand, shot them in the head.
  2. Eat raw eggs to restore health
  3. Eat weed to restore health - I.. a m :P @_@ trying *_* this 
 now - LOVING IT!!!
  4. Shot bird nest for valuable treasures
  5. Shot snakes for an egg
  6. If you see a girl in a chruch, she's probably a captive - RESUCE HER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjlthecreator5
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 21, 2007 4:15 am PT
Review:  The Nintendo Wii version follow the identical storyline as the GameCube and PlayStation 2 version 
 and for those new to the series this means players are reacquainted with Leon S. Kennedy, Raccoon 
 City Police Department's idealistic rookie cop from Resident Evil 2. It has been 6 years since 
 the destruction of Raccoon City and in that time, the US government has been able to destroy the 
 evil Umbrella Corporation. Six years later and Kennedy has been tasked to look into the abduction 
 of the President's daughter and his investigation has led him to a mysterious location in Spain. Graphics 
 wise and due to the limitations of the console they aren't going to match up to anything you've 
 seen on the Xbox 360 or the PS3, and overall are very similar to the GameCube version two years 
 ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havraha
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 20, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  If you're confused as to why this game is coming out AGAIN on the Wii ... well ... its not too 
 obvious to see once you put it in and play. Everything around this game, from the over the shoulder 
 view, to utilizing a stationary position so you can aim with the Wii Remote yet not have to deal 
 with the hassle of aimbox issues since your analog stick handles actually viewpoint turning ... 
 all would seem to solidify in someones mind that this game was almost CONCIEVED from the ground 
 up to address various unique hurdles with shooters on the Wii to create the most fantastic and, 
 dare I say perfectly executed, shooter game on Wii so far, whether its First Person, Third Person, 
 old or new. And for 30 dollars, an updated version of one of the greatest games ever made is down 
 right impossible to resist.
  
  You know what the game is about. So I'm not even going to go into it. What you're wondering about 
 is the controls. They work good, for the most part. You don't even have to hold down a button to 
 attack with the knife ... though you CAN hold down a button (the C button) to ready the knife for 
 a timed attack. In the end it comes down to which you perfer .. but when you're running through 
 corridors with Ganados on your tail, simply swinging the wii remote to auto-lock onto the lock 
 on the door in front of you to break it in seconds makes this game seem more simplified and fluid.
 
  
  The - button and the 2 button can both be used to access your pause screen. Peculiarly, the + button 
 doesn't seem to even be used until you're fiddling with rotating some of your items in your case. 
 You hold down B to aim you gun, and fire with A ... and of course, the huge, monsterous improvement 
 to this game is the utilization of the Wii Remote's pointer to effortlessly zero in on Ganados 
 and their various body parts. As mentioned before, you can aim as far left, right, up, or down 
 as you want, sense the Wii Remote doesn't effect turning like it does in most First Person Shooters 
 on Wii. If you need to turn your entire vantage point, the analog stick on the nunchuck utilizes 
 this. Pressing the directions on the D-Pad moves your camera angle to look in that direction as 
 long as you're holding it down. Holding down the Z button as you move makes Leon run, pressing 
 down on the analog stick and Z will execute a quick turn, and what am I forgetting? .... OH! Reload 
 ....
  
  Reload isn't that great. They tried to implement a motion feature for it ... swing the Wii Remote 
 while holding down B. The problem with this is that swinging the Wii Remote while holding down 
 B .... is also what you kind of do to AIM at people! So ... quite often your aiming reticule simply 
 goes to the bottom of the screen, and nothing happens. You have to maniacly swing like a mad man 
 to get it to reload. Happily, though, there's a secondary way to reload -- press the D-Pad in any 
 direction while holding down B. This works a lot better.
  
  Graphically ... yes, the game is NEARLY indistiguishable from its GC counterpart, though having 
 played both games in progressive scan mode, I have to say that I think the Wii version actually 
 looks a little better. There's a LOT less aliasing on surrounding environmental objects, the edges 
 on people look crisper, textures look sharper and more refined, and the colors are definitely warmer 
 feeling. It's almost like I'm playing the game on ... on a SUPER-Gamecube! ... go figure. It's 
 also worth noting that if you have a wide-screen TV, the game now actually fits. If you're playing 
 it on a normal aspect TV, you're stuck with the same old letterbox format from the Gamecube version.
 
  
  A little promoted detail about this game is that its actually compatible with the Classic Controller, 
 so if you're a RE4 purist who wants the graphical refinements and extra levels from the PS2 version, 
 but think that the Wii Remote makes the game too easy, you can plug in said Classic Controller 
 and play the game like you did on the Gamecube and PS2.
  
  When other companies keep releasing ports of year old games at full price on the Wii (something 
 I don't necessarily have a problem with, actually) , it's surprising that a game literally WORTH 
 full price is being sold for nearly half that. I think this peculiar phenomena has something to 
 do with those other publishers hoping to attract people who HAVEN'T already purchased the game, 
 while Capcom is trying to attract new AND old players to reexperience the game with the new controls. 
 In either case, its win-win for everybody! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulfood4
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 22, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 should be a familiar name. It was the best Survival Horror game of its time back 
 in 2005, and 2 years later it hasnt changed. The game came out on GameCube on January 11th 2005, 
 then in October it came out on PS2, and most recently on the PC. It should be no surprise it headed 
 to the Wii. The first thing people think about when they see a Wii game is the controls. Well im 
 glad to say it has great controls, and Capcom has truly outdone themselves. The character movements 
 are controlled by the Nunchuck, and aiming is done by holding down B and aiming with the Wii remote. 
 While holding down B you'll enter a position where your unable to move and you'll be aiming your 
 gun. While holdiong down B, pressing A will fire your gun, the major gripe is that the camera is 
 controlled with the analog stick, not the pointer. It may seem weird, but its easy to adjust too. 
 Also swinging the Wii remote will swing your knife. The controls work great, and definitley make 
 this game worth revisiting. For people who havent played the original, the story focuses on Leon 
 Kennedy, a secret service agent, sent to a European villiage to find the Presidents daughter, Ashley 
 Graham. The story sounds cliche, but it works. The villiagers have been infected with a virus, 
 no its not the T-Virus, but the Las Plagas virus. It enters the host and takes over there mind. 
 They have no will power and are under control by Saddler, the main villian in the game. I dont 
 want to spoil the story so i'll leave it at that. As far as content goes the Wii version has everything 
 the GameCube version had as well as the PS2 extras. So you will have 3 new minigames, Assignment 
 Ada, Seperate Ways, and Mecanaries. As well as new unlockable costumes, and new difficulty setting. 
 The campaign mode is a good 15-20 hours, and has a great story. The graphics are ported from the 
 GameCube version. Its dissapointing that Capcom didnt upgrade them, but they still look great. 
 Also no new Wii exclusve content is never good. But all in all its still a great game for people 
 who've played the original. And for people who havent played the original, what are you waiting 
 for?!? Its 30 dollars brand new, go get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdcazares1980
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 20, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  This is the fourth version of Resident Evil 4. Hopefully this will be the last. In a way, I understand 
 on why Capcom has decided to release the game for the Wii. It is one of the best games of all time, 
 and the Wii Remote is drawn for casual gamers. This is all fine and good, but for the veteran players, 
 such as myself (as well as passing RE 4 10 times over) , the Wii Remote is a bit of a hassle, even 
 though I think the aiming system is great. But the overall experience with the Nunchuck and Wii 
 Remote seems a bit pretentious. If you're a veteran player from the GameCube era, you're better 
 off using the GC Controller as the default, since (with a sigh of relief) you can use that as well. 
 With that, now you're kicking butt. The downfall of using the GC controller is that you can't use 
 the green/red crosshair aim like you do with the Wii remote. That increases your chances of making 
 hits.
  
  There really isn't nothing new to say about RE 4 other that the Wii Remote controls. The graphics 
 are great still, it's still has great action, the replay value is also top-notch, and so on. Is 
 this game worth the $30 even after play the GC version countless times? I say... yes. You no longer 
 have to switch discs each time you surpass a certain level, and you also get to play Separate Ways 
 and other content from the PS2. Make sure you have the GC or Classic Controller as back up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1upMushroomX6
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 20, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Never played RE:4 for the Game cube, ps2, or PC. but now i have for the wii and it was simply amazing. 
 great feel, great graphics (for the wii of course) , incredible sound, and an everlasting appeal 
 that will leave you on your seat for the time you play it. well you play as Leon Kennedy. you search 
 for the president's daughter so where over in Europe. just when you think your fighting zombies... 
 guess again. they're brain washed virus carring spaniards with an incredible sense of i want to 
 eat your brains... great game.
  
  just to mention. They sort of combined the PS2 version with the Game Cube version to get the final 
 wii version. the inserted the Extra Features from the PS2 version inside but they added the extra 
 ripples and details from the Game Cube version inside also. There is also another feature i came 
 across while playing, there is an alternitive type of controls. you can toggle between using the 
 GameCube controller, Classic Controller, or just using your wii mote and nunchuck style... i perfer 
 using the Classic Controller for that classic feel and also i get to use it for more than somthing 
 other than Virtual Console games.. ;)
  
  ah yeah. a recommendation to all you gamespot users. if you get this game or haven't ever played 
 this game before, and you have a classic controller, change your settings and play with the classic 
 controller. its alot better and more comfortable at first when you start the game. then you cant 
 eventually move on to the nunchuck- wiimote style controls.
  
  to summerize this review: they're not zombies, Europe, save the president's daughter, extra features 
 from the PS2 version, Alternitive type of controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 20, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Well Resident Evil 4 is back in it's 3rd version on another Nintendo system. It's the Wii's turn 
 to get it. Seeing that they have re-done Resident Evil 1 quite a few times I'm sure another incarnation 
 will be coming out in the future. So lets get to the game. If you haven't played it because you 
 have been living under a rock, nows your chance. Basically you play Leon from RE2 that is part 
 of the secret service. You're looking for the president's daughter which is being held hostage 
 by a religious cult that has created creatures that turn people into a Zombie like state. Through 
 out the game you will go through piles of enemies, really cool and nasty boss battles, and loads 
 of great guns, areas, and blood and guts. The first thing you'll notice is the graphics, while 
 they haven't changed from the GCN or the PS2 verison, they are some of the best you will see on 
 Wii. If you've played any of the other consoles they do look dated, but we are just comparing to 
 what the Wii is capable right now. The music and sounds are perfect. They are down right scary 
 and create a great spooky mood through out the game. The voice talent is really good and doesn't 
 make you laugh like prior installations. Futhermore the scripting is good. There is some language 
 here so watch the little ones. The controls aren't exactly how I would like them set up for the 
 Wii. Also you don't use the Wii mote as much as I would like. They still haven't added a strafe 
 or a first person mode, that was my major issue with the prior incarnations. You use the Wiimote 
 to point when you are shooting, and slash with your knife. You also use it to get through cut scenes. 
 The Wii mote doesn't help turn your character or move your character in any way other then that. 
 That's about it. It feels like it's tacked on and wasn't really thought all the way through. Furthermore 
 I don't like the use of the trigger B button to hold out your gun and the A button to shoot. If 
 it were reversed then you would feel like you were shooting a gun. Other then a few minor complaints 
 and the awesome price tag there really isn't a reason you should pick up this game. It works well 
 with what the Wii has to offer early in it's life time. It also offers PS2 content for those GCN 
 people that didn't get to expierence it. I wished there were a couple more costumes or levels in 
 honor of the 3rd time around. But we do get an exclusive video of the Umbrella Chronicles FP rail 
 shooter. So we can see what's coming up and how Capcom is revitalizing their old games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: st1sk8er18
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 20, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is still very good. Although by now i think it's starting to get a little old. 
 How many times can they re-release a game and still have people like its the best game ever! theres 
 nothing like it!! yeah there is, the 3 other ports of it.
  
  The gamecube version is still the best in my book. The wii edition is basically the gamecube game, ps2 
 features, and wii motion controls. The controls themselves are actually, for me anyways, kind of hard 
 to get used to. With the analog stick used for moving, the d-pad used for camera angle, and the 
 wiimote used for aiming its more to take in than just the 2 analog sticks needed in the other copies.
 
  
  As for graphics, they're still awesome. Except now they look a little dated because of the new systems 
 that are out and everything, but they still look good.
  
  The sound effects are still as good as they were in the other versions. Not much i need to say 
 about them if you've already played the other games.
  
  In a nutshell, it's not a perfect 10 like some people hype it up to be, but i wouldn't give it 
 anything lower than a 8.5 because it's still the best RE game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sebtko
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 20, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  i bought this game for 34.99 had the ps2 version it really was ok bad graphics and all i put this 
 into my wii and boy oh boy graphics were alot better than the ps2 and gameplay is amazing !! its 
 worth the money and they really re-did this game to my satisfaction im a resident evil fan as of 
 now due to the wii version and hoping people will give great feedback for the game due to its greatness
 
  
  Pros. Better Graphics, Gameplay!!! awesome g+g=great game
  
  Cons. wii-mote lags when aiming (easy solution put sensor on the bottom of ur tv to fix that problem) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamBenG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  The content is really exactly the same, but the expierence is completely different, is does a very 
 good job at aiming, a big deal with shooting games (obviously...) but also at combining the actions 
 with the Wiimote, such as running sequences, or hitting crates and barrels, or slicing up zombies 
 with your knife.
  
  The graphics are really about the same, but certainly nothing wrong with them, the heads exploding 
 are just as satisfying as in the original, the difference is that this time, its like pointing 
 a gun at the head yourself... it just makes it feel so great seeing that happen for the 1st time. 
 As any previous player would know, its suspense is helped alot by the sounds and music, even tho 
 they havent changed the pop ups are still pretty frightening. To sum up, this game has done a great 
 job at combining with the Wii, and has a great replay value, it may take a few minutes to get used 
 to the whole point and shot, but once you have it down its like you are shooting the zombies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzyking
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 20, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  This is a remake of a 2 year old game, but it is amazing. I played the Gamecube version like 4 
 times and barely got bored of it. The WII version is a lot better because the aiming is much faster 
 and feels more natural for me. I have the old one, and there may be no difference in the graphics, 
 other than the real 16x9, the sound is still amazing, and its totally worth the $30. If you have 
 the GCN version, i can see that you may not wanna play the game over, but you get the PS2 content. 
 So play as Ada! I love this game, and probably will too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kemar7856
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 21, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  I'll keep this one short kinda playing this at the same time
  
  Anyone who thinks this game is a 9.1 is crazy for one its a 2 year old port with nothing new other 
 then the controls witch did however make the game fun (hate to admit) . Don't get me wrong i; m not 
 a resident 4 hater I own the pc and gc version but enough is enough nintendo bring out some new 
 games you losers! how long do u expect the wii to last if all the missions of concoles dont even 
 game real games out yet. The wii is capable of alot more but it looks like we are not gonna see 
 it for a while.
  
  This game should of been a promo or bonus disk for the umbrella chronicles.
  
  Graphics-7 were 
 trying to move next gen not hold on to the achivements from the gamecube theres a reason it was 
 called best game 2005.
  
  sound-8 Great just like on the gc vesrion
  
  gameplay-9 for sure great value costed me $40 for the game (should of been less) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto703
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 20, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  All I can say before we jump right to the review is WOW! Now that that is out of the way lets get 
 to it. The gameplay in this game is improved over the gamecube and PS2 version. You have pinpoint 
 accuracy so head shots are a lot easier. However you still control the camera with the analog stick. 
 It will take some getting used to but when you get the controls down you will have fun killing 
 . The graphics are not a big step from the other versions but they still look good. Unlike the 
 PS2 version the cut scenes are in real-time. The sound is great. When you reload your gun you will 
 hear it through your wii remote speaker. The things that the ganados say can get annoying sometimes 
 but not by a lot. The game has a ton of replay value. Even after you beat the main game you get 
 separate quests not to mention you can start a new game with all your weapons. You will not put 
 this game down after a few days. This is a great game. I would recommend getting it since it only 
 cost $30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samurai_X_1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 has made it into the far best console of the moment it has the right amount of 
 fun you expect on RE the controls are a little bit harder but after a few minutes you get the hang 
 of it. If its the first time you play RE4 you will not have any trouble with the controls but f 
 you played it on the cube you will enjoy completing it again The only bad thing about the Wii Edition 
 is that there is no special content just for the Wii They should have put more special content 
 just to make it more atractive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 20, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  When i first heard this game was coming out, i asked myself why? The game is 2 years old, and most 
 people have played it to death already. Well, i'm eating my own words on this one. Playing this 
 game on the Wii brings a new depth of immersion, and at $30, it's worth every penny. Aiming works 
 wonderfully, and actually seems easier than before. Control wise, this game works well on every aspect, and 
 is the first Wii game to have what i would call the perfect control system . Graphics are the same 
 as the GC version from what i've played so far. Sound wise, it's the same, nothing added, nothing taken 
 away. Even if you have played this game on another platform, you owe it to yourself to pick up this 
 one, just to play it on the Wii. It almost feels entirely different, and i can't wait for the next 
 Resident Evil. This is THE BEST game on the Wii so far! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillingRemmie
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 20, 2007 4:08 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil... You know what that mean :D 100% gore and zombies-Action-Adventure. I was over-hyped 
 at Resident Evil 4 on the Gamecube and now im Over-Over-Over hyped about the Wii Edition. I dont 
 know why because its almost exactly the same game :\ But! There are some differences. The graphics 
 are updated a bit and now we have the Wii therre is-of course- an Motion Control options. Its easy 
 to control and to learn.
  So on this place its already perfect. (Gameplay)
  
  Now the sound. If this game didn't had sound it won't creep the hell out of you. The sound is Perfect. 
 The screaming zombies, the guns, the mysterious and scary tunes and chainsaws. All is so great 
 :D. On this point also perfect.
  
  The graphics are a bit better then on the GameCube. It's sharper, darker and more pixels. The best 
 graphics on the Wii till now but not very good if you look at the recent Xbox360 games or the PS3. 
 But you should'nt expect that from the Wii but that's an other discussion.
  
  I spent a lot of hours (around 50 hours) and im still playing it every day. Its not much better 
 then the GameCube version but IT IS better.
  
  So if you have a Nintendo Wii, lights for in the dark (or not if you're a cool guy) and if you're 
 a horror-lover, Then THIS IS A MUST HAVE ! YOU GOT IT ?!?!?! :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thepinkzee
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  i just got this game, and it is amazing even with the wii i had so much fun playing this. I have 
 it for the gamecube and i think the wii version is little more fun. And its cheaper just 30 $ so 
 i recomend this game to who ever has a wii. Also the graphics and sound are not as good as the 
 gamecube version.. but then you gain some with the use of the wiimote and nunchuck. also you gain 
 the bonus feature from the playstation 2 version. But i believe that this is the best game out 
 for the wii right now because the wii hasn't been that great at games... so i think this is the 
 best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mexaman
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 19, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  What do I say to a game like this? Perfection. I am a die hard Resident Evil fan and have enjoyed 
 RE4 on the PS2 and have been counting down the days till this games release on the Wii. Ill tell 
 you this is a must have game for the Wii. Ive been playing since I bought it today and I will 
 it is a very intuitive and entertaining experience you will want to play over and over again. This 
 is a great game to have and play whether you have experienced this already in previous versions 
 or are completely new to the game. It is the best of all previous versions on the PS2, Gamecube 
 and the PC. All for the bargain of $29.95! The game offers what it did in previous versions on 
 the PS2, and that is the only downside of the whole game. The new controls on the Wii mote where 
 very intuitive and brings an entirely new way to play this game. Slash your knife with a wave off 
 your hand and steady your arm using the Wii mote for every shoot counts. It brings endless excitement 
 to a very good and successful game. The sound is better than every as you hear sounds from the 
 palm of your hand whether it is your pistol reloading or your gun firing, it brings a new level 
 of realism to the game. Also cut scenes are no longer pre-rendered but are rendered in real-time. 
 So all in all it is a very enjoyable game experience with at bit of fear in you as you play, whether 
 youve played it before or not it is an experience you will not soon forget. So, what are doing 
 reading this you should be playing Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DjColombia
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  The Wii impresses whoever is to get their hands on its controller and by the looks of the trailer.... its 
 gonna be a work out! RE4 came back on the GC and PS2 as a hit and non-stopping one too, for many 
 gamers out there this was a revolution. Now with the movement of Leon in your hands this is a what 
 you call an Evolution. If you already played RE4 on the PS2 and GC then you already know what is 
 up. But to allow yourself actual have a feel of what it is really like to be in a situation that 
 you must! Jump on top of a monster, swing the knife back and forth, and have big boy falling down 
 to your feet... now that is worth your 30 dollars. Plus the bonus like Graphics, Gameplay, Sound; 
 what do you have to lose?? So if your Resident Evil fan or just got a Wii and want to get some 
 action into your system then by all means. Go Get RE4 for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shivercraft
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  I am a big fan of Resident Evil 4, and I was quick to buy this game when it came out today. After 
 about 4 hours into the game and having done some homework online about it concerning it's new options, 
 I have to say I am impressed with the title. It isn't new, but it is a much better way to experience 
 an already awesome game, and it also gave me high hopes for single player games for the Wii system 
 for future titles.
  
  Anyone familiar with the previous game's installments could already take an educated guess at how 
 the game plays: You shake the stick or press combinations of A and B on the wii-mote during cinemas, 
 you do a quick slash with the controller to slash with the knife, hold down B and point and shoot 
 your enemies with extreme accuracy (this feels so natural and makes you such a nasty shot, I beat 
 the first invasion mission of the town with next to no problem. That is quite a feat to those that 
 haven't played this game before.) In short, this is how an action game should feel on the Wii.
 
  
  The extras are all the add-ons from the PS2 port and the computer port, plus the controls, nothing 
 else really. I didn't really need a lot of new stuff to enjoy the game though, this is just for 
 those of you that didn't know what was new in it. I am extremely happy with this title, as (other 
 than zelda) most of the single-player experiences on the Wii have been a total let-down. I was 
 afraid that Metroid Prime 3 was going to actually be quite a let-down as well, with the amount 
 of suck that has come from first person shooters on the system, but this game has proven that it 
 is possible to have the correct combination of controls to make the game feel both natural and 
 enjoyable.
  
  My hat is off to Capcom for making this version of the game, and although it isn't really anything 
 we haven't SEEN before, it is something we haven't PLAYED before. I can't recommend this game highly 
 enough for fans of the action genre that own a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poio1982
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  Ok! be honest the controls are pretty good in this game.
  i have just a couple of hours playing this game and as far as i see seems like the story is going 
 to be the same with out any changes i mean. what about and extra level without messing the story 
 line. or well the Wii controls are working pretty good until now, but i dont know for sure, the 
 graphics are no that great i was hoping for a lil bit more of graphics in this game but well if 
 you have the wii and some extra 30 bucks you can affort this and have i good time. the only thing 
 i really hope is not to get tired of the controls until now they are pretty good.
  
  well
  
  enjoy ;) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
