-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Resident Evil: The Umbrella Chronicles
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/residentevilseries/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Controls are easy to pick up.
 Introduces a few novel tweaks to on-rails shooter gameplay.
 Captures the Resident Evil look and feel.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 On-rails shooter gameplay can still feel restrictive.
 One-shot kills can feel random.
 Music undermines the atmosphere.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 14, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.6, 56 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 2,689 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Developer: Cavia Inc.
Genre: Rail Shooting
Date: Nov 13, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Good atmosphere and some unique mechanics make this a solid on-rails shooter. 

  Resident Evil: The Umbrella Chronicles for the Wii marks the latest in a string of efforts to use 
 the heavily atmospheric settings and gruesome undead abominations from Capcom's number-one survival 
 horror franchise for the purposes of a point-and-shoot action game. It's also the most successful, 
 due to a number of factors, including a more intuitive control scheme and more authentic locations. 
 Umbrella Chronicles has the texture of a Resident Evil game, but it still basically handles like 
 an arcade light-gun game. This means it's easy to pick up, but it's also got a fair share of tired 
 genre conventions. Still, there are some exciting moments, and the Resident Evil minutiae it contains 
 should thrill fans.  

           Nemesis puts up an appropriately difficult fight.      

  Much of the game's authenticity comes from the fact that rather than tell an entirely original 
 story, Umbrella Chronicles puts you through the events of the first few Resident Evil games, which 
 the game presents as a report on the final hours of the now-felled Umbrella Corporation, the conglomerate 
 responsible for all these gee-darned zombies. Over the course of the game, you'll revisit the events 
 of Resident Evil 0, the original Resident Evil, and Resident Evil 3: Nemesis. The narrative is 
 understandably truncated, and the game focuses more on establishing a grimy atmosphere and re-creating 
 specific, memorable moments than consistent storytelling.  

  Topping it all off is an all-new scenario that takes place in 2003 and sees the reunion of the 
 original Resident Evil tag team of Chris Redfield and Jill Valentine as they hunt down the last 
 vestiges of Umbrella in a frozen industrial complex, which doesn't quite live up to its exciting 
 potential. There are also a number of side missions that often revisit environments from the main 
 missions, showing you what characters like Rebecca Chambers and fan-favorite Albert Wesker were 
 up to at various points in the series. Considering that most games of this nature tend to last 
 a scant hour or two, it's a little impressive that it can take more than four hours to complete 
 a single run-through of all the missions.  

  Resident Evil: Survivor and Resident Evil: Dead Aim, the two US-released light-gun games that preceded 
 Umbrella Chronicles, both made fair-to-middling attempts to cross-pollinate traditional arcade-style 
 light-gun games and their more dynamic brethren, first-person shooters. There are still traces 
 of this in Umbrella Chronicles, such as the ability to look around a little bit using the Nunchuk's 
 analog stick, but most of the touches that this game puts on the light-gun formula are for the 
 effect of making the experience feel more Resident Evil. What really defines the action is its 
 methodical pacing. There are still plenty of moments where monsters will appear out of seemingly 
 nowhere and run at you at full speed, but a lot of the time you're dealing with the predicament 
 that's key to all Resident Evil games: too many zombies, not enough ammo.  

  While your standard pistol has unlimited ammo, it becomes increasingly ineffective as the game 
 wears on, forcing you to rely on other weaponry that  can  run out of ammo, including shotguns, 
 automatic weapons, grenades, RPGs, and the like. These weapons can also be upgraded with stars 
 that you earn over the course of the game, increasing their ammo capacity as well as their stopping 
 power. There's a slight kink in the upgrade system, though, in that a lot of the weapons appear 
 in only one of the games, limiting the usefulness of upgrading any one weapon by more than one 
 or two levels. The game tries to encourage precision over speed by giving every enemy a very tiny 
 weak spot that, when hit, produces a one-hit kill, though it's so small that the line between luck 
 and precision becomes pretty blurry. Either way, it's still morbidly satisfying when you're able 
 to pop a zombie's head like a balloon and watch the body stumble around aimlessly for a second 
 as blood spurts out of its putrid neck hole.  

  Flying in the face of ammo conservation is the treasure-hunt aspect of the game. The levels are 
 filled with breakable objects, such as light fixtures and wooden crates, which can contain herbs 
 and sprays for restoring your life, weapons, and documents filled with crazy Resident Evil backstory. 
 It's the type of stuff that fans of the series go nuts for, and it's the main draw for playing 
 through missions more than once.  

  In addition to your firearms, you've got some close-quarters combat abilities, which are surprisingly 
 effective. If a zombie gets close enough to grab hold of you, a quick shake of the Wii Remote triggers 
 a counterattack that instantly kills the aggressor. It doesn't work on anyone other than the standard 
 zombie, and even then they won't always attack you in a way that you can counter, but there are 
 definitely times where it's preferable to shooting them. You've also got a knife that you can use 
 by holding the A button and slashing the Wii Remote around all willy-nilly, and it makes short 
 work of smaller enemies like leeches, ravens, spiders, bees, and bats -- enemies that are far more 
 difficult to hit with a gun. Coincidentally, all this remote shaking makes use of the new Zapper 
 peripheral less than ideal.  

  Amid all of the zombie murder that accounts for the volume of the gameplay, there are little interactive 
 cinematic moments,  la Resident Evil 4, where you have to quickly press a button or shake the 
 Wii Remote to dodge some kind of danger. They're generally not that hard, especially since there's 
 always just a single action to pull off, rather than a series. Still, failing one of these moments 
 results in a hit to your health bar, and possibly death. There are some fairly nasty, protracted 
 boss fights that employ the same mechanics to better effect.  

           Lighting plays a big part in establishing Umbrella Chronicles' mood.      

  Though 
 Umbrella Chronicles doesn't look anywhere near as nice as, say, Resident Evil 4, it manages to 
 capture the dirty, undersaturated, run-down feel of the series. Despite some ugly-looking textures, 
 the environments pack in a good amount of detail, and the various zombified people, dogs, monkeys, 
 sharks, snakes, and plants look appropriately fetid. It's too bad that much of the spooky tension 
 that has been a Resident Evil hallmark gets sucked out of Umbrella Chronicles by an overbearing 
 soundtrack that sounds like it belongs in a different, faster-paced game. The voice acting is a 
 better fit, with the role of Albert Wesker, who serves as the game's narrator, being particularly 
 entertaining.  

  Resident Evil: The Umbrella Chronicles is solid for an on-rails shooter, a genre that admittedly 
 becomes less relevant with each passing year, and the strength of the ambiance, the quantity of 
 Resident Evil detail, and some fun little gameplay touches make it better. If you don't care for 
 either Resident Evil or light-gun games, this won't change your mind, but if you do, it's a pretty 
 fun ride.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (187 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wickedsam1994
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 6, 2009 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil Umbrella Chronicles
  
  After a few unsuccessful attempts to make the Resident Evil Franchise into a on-rails shooter with 
 Survivor. Survivor 2 & Dead Aim all failing terribily, Capcom is giving it another shot with UC 
 and this time it looks like they have got it!!!
  
  The game does by what the name implies by summerising the plots from Resi Evil 0, Remake & 3 & 
 introducing a whole new chapter that trys to show how Umbrella came to its messy end. Along with 
 this it also has many sub chapters that fills in alot of plots holes not really explained in the 
 main games which makes the game worthwild & really helps with a few unanswered questions.
  
  The graphics in the game are a step behind RE4 with a few blurry textures, but with that said 
 its defiently one of the better looking Wii games with some super backgrounds that are finally 
 displayed in 3d rather than Pre-Rendered. The Cut-Scenes looks great and are probily the best that 
 can be produced in this day & age.
  
  The music is a real let-downs with it really undermining the atmosphere but the voice acting is 
 as great as ever which can be heard while playing which really brings the game to life unlike the 
 others trhat never really did.
  
  Gameplay takes the place of On-Rauils which XCapcom has finally nailed this time around with controls 
 beigneasy to access and the game really being one of the best to nail this gameplay & gives it 
 a few new tweeks here & there.
  
  The Replay Valule is defiently the best in a game I have ever seen in the game. You can start by 
 playing though the game again which can help to get you better scores, Replay to go though multiple 
 paths, find files containg back-story on the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMLSLAT
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 8:00 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Cool cutscenes; a lot of information about the history of Resident Evil that'll interest 
 you whether you've played the old games or not; quite a bit of content; controls that new gamers 
 can easily get used to; you're shooting zombies, and you can do it with a friend.
  
  The Bad: In-game graphics are worse than Resident Evil 4's, from 2005; playing a long time gets 
 boring; voice acting is decent, but not great; little control over the camera; no Resident Evil 
 2 levels; the aiming system is noticeably so-so.
  
  Resident Evil 4 completely revitalized and changed up the old, aging franchise of a massive zombie 
 invasion in Raccoon City. The camera work, control system, graphics, creepy music, and new emphasis 
 on action made for one of the greatest games ever made.
  
  Umbrella Chronicles is a completely different take, telling the history of the Umbrella Corporation, 
 creators of the zombifying T-Virus. This is basically the background to Resident Evil 4, which 
 focused on a new virus that Umbrella was trying to steal to help bring back the dead company.
 
  
  Unlike RE4, this one is an on-rails shooter, meaning you won't be controlling your characters movement, 
 it's first person, and sadly, there's little camera control. But nevertheless, it's pretty fun 
 to blast some zombies with a buddy, as you can imagine.
  
  The control system is noticeably simplistic. You'll be shooting, knifing, throwing grenades, switching 
 out guns, and reloading- that's about it. It's not a very big step up from Wii Sports in terms 
 of buttons, meaning your dad, for example, who just got convinced games are still fun, can probably 
 get into it pretty easily. Basically, Capcom gave a rated M Wii Sports a shot, with shooting, and 
 it turned out pretty well.
  
  The buttons are all responsive of course, and reloading is great, but the aiming system is a little 
 off. The pointer doesn't seem very precise, making it even harder to pull off nearly-impossible 
 critical hits, to blow off zombie heads the way you want to.
  
  On the upside, the game is capable of utilizing the Wii Zapper, in case you were wondering why 
 you got that and Link's Crossbow Training. The buttons are pretty easy to handle, as you just need 
 a shoot button, a switch guns button, and an alternate item button (for your knife and grenade) , 
 and it feels more like a gun. While the Zapper's B Button trigger doesn't pick up that you hit 
 it 100% of the time, it's much easier to aim accurately, and it's a pretty cool feeling.
  
  The graphics and music are both major disappointments though, coming from the franchise that just 
 proved the Gamecube could do five times what people thought it could. The Wii is capable of twice 
 that, so Umbrella Chronicles, by all rights, should have some spectacular graphics.
  
  Unfortunately, no. The cutscenes look pretty nice, but in-game, the graphics are weak- more like 
 a Gamecube title, but worse than RE4.
  
  The sound, in terms of shooting and grenades, is excellent. The voice acting is so-so and the script 
 is cheesy, but that's basically a staple of Resident Evil by now, so that's not too bad. So long 
 as Jill isn't almost a Jill Sandwich...
  
  And the music is just so-so too. It is kind of cool once in awhile, but it doesn't creep up on 
 you like Resident Evil 4's, which added a lot of scare to the game. Instead it's kind of loud and 
 obnoxious when it should be trying to be quiet, then loud at certain parts, like a horror movie/game 
 usually does. It's not that it's particularly bad, but it doesn't fit.
  
  As for gameplay, you'll find the pointer issue isn't terrible, but it's kind of difficult pulling 
 off critical hits. These one-hit K. O. s are judged for your score in each level, so it's important 
 to do well on them, but they're extremely hard to get. You have to hit exactly at the hair line 
 of the zombie in question to make the head blow up, and being more exact would've helped. On the 
 upside, the pointer does show you when you'll make a critical hit.
  
  There's a lot of meat to the game, surprisingly. Fifteen to twenty hours of levels are packed in 
 here, bringing you through Resident Evil 0, 1, 3, and a couple completely new areas. There's no 
 Resident Evil 2 support, which is disappointing as it's considered one of the best games in the 
 series. Still, a new part of Ada's history is revealed, a secret HUNK level is available for hardcore 
 fans to salivate over, and Umbrella's End is finally shown, the missing link in the story.
  
  I personally don't understand the complaints about the Umbrella's End section. I found them 
 a lot of fun, relatively difficult (expectedly, being at the end) , and they informed us about the 
 destruction of Umbrella's last facility the way we wanted, not Resident Evil 4's glossing over 
 of the fact. Plus, Wesker's perspective all game is awesome to see, as he's one of the coolest 
 characters, and a villain.
  
  Mulitplayer's a lot of fun, and one of the best parts of the game, but some levels can't be done 
 in multiplayer, which is a bit of a nuisance. Still, you can probably perfect your attempts through 
 each level more efficiently in single player, so you can level up your guns and unlock secret levels.
 
  
  Playing one or two levels every once in awhile is a blast, but playing much more than that, as 
 you'd expect, gets kind of dull and repetitive. That's a shame if you're a big Resident Evil fan 
 and want to blast through the game, but since this game kind of aims to let new gamers in easy, 
 it might be good that a lot of the fun is best in short bursts. Upgrading all the guns, getting 
 the highest scores on each level, and playing through all three difficulty levels will definitely 
 take some time too, so that'll help keep you coming back for more.
  
  Overall, Umbrella Chronicles comes in as a success. The story pieces fill in hardcore gamers and 
 introduce new Resident Evil fans to the history of the franchise, plus the controls aren't too 
 bad for newcoming gamers. That allows for a broad appeal, so despite the pointer issues, disappointing 
 graphics, and the fact the formula isn't changed up much to keep it fresh for long periods of time, 
 Umbrella Chronicles is definitely worth a look.
  
  If you've played all the games in the series, you'll get some great story bits. If you loved Resident 
 Evil 4 and want to see what came before it, this is probably a better choice than going back and 
 playing the old, aging games. If Wii Sports just got you into gaming and you're old enough for 
 M rated games, this is for you too. Let's shoot some zombies, Raccoon City's packed with'em. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattc7691
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 8:13 pm PT
Review:  To start off, I am a huge Resident Evil fan, I was raised on Evil, so it was no surprise what my 
 first Wii game would be. At first Umbrella Chronicles is pretty hard to get a hang of, but once 
 you do ( I suggest getting the gun) it is a really great game. The gun makes the game a lot easier 
 and I love the feel of it. I suggest getting the official Resident Evil: UC Shot Blaster, it has 
 a great feel and comes with really awsome Wii-mote decals! The gun also has a really cool reload 
 feature where all you have to do is pump the handle up and down to reload. It has great levels 
 and I love the bonus Wesker levels that you unlock throughout the game. I also enjoyed the "remake" 
 of Resident Evil 3, seeing an updated Nemesis was pretty cool, even though he was only in one level. 
 The only thing the game is missing is Resident Evil 2, but it will be in the next game, which will 
 be awsome. Wrapping up, the game was great and I recommend this game to anyone who enjoys Resident 
 Evil or House of the Dead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megjur
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 11:05 pm PT
Review:  This game was loads of fun in both single polayer and co-op. The untold RE stories, a new look 
 at RE2, and playing as wesker are highlights. The zapper controls are good, but the "critical hits" 
 are very hard to get, you basically have to aim at the very top of the zombies head.. a fraction 
 of an inch area. The unlockable sections were fun until Dark legacy 2. Here you play as wesker 
 and have to defeat the Twin Ivans. You have to complete this section to unlock the final section 
 Fourth Survivor. The problem is this section is soo incredibly difficult and frustrating to beat, 
 something I have yet to do, and probably won't since I'm pretty much fed up with trying. Why Capcom 
 saw fit to burden RE fans with an incredibly annoying section, fighting 2... robed helmet headed 
 things, in order to progress is beyond me. This really detracted from the game overall, since it 
 basically prevents me from finishing the game. If you're an RE fan get the game, but don't expect 
 to finish it without a load of frustration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 6:18 pm PT
Review:  I was beginning to think that the rail shooter genre was a lost cause for anything more than lame 
 arcade ports. Then Umbrella Chronicles comes along and changes everything. It is an extremely well 
 done game that maintains the spirit of the series and has tons of extras that keep you wanting 
 to play.
  
  I just spent all day playing this game. Let's take a second to reflect on that statement. I sat 
 down in front of my Wii at about 10:00 AM, took a break for lunch around 1:00 PM, and finished 
 up at about 5:30 PM. My save game timer is clocking in at just under seven hours. I haven't replayed 
 a single level and there are even two more bonus missions I haven't unlocked yet. This is longer 
 than most other action games and completely unheard of from a rail shooter. Nearly every other 
 game like this is an arcade port that can be completed in under an hour. In most console games, 
 an experienced player will be starting on medium difficulty, but most people will want to start 
 this one on easy. This gives the game a full three levels of difficulty to master since you won't 
 be skipping one, providing you with that much more play time. Replay value is extended by a rating 
 system for each level that gives you a letter grade based on your performance. Add in the insane 
 amount of hidden items and there is plenty to keep you entertained for a long time to come. You 
 can bring a friend along for some co-op action, but for some reason that isn't an option for the 
 bonus missions until you complete every one of the main missions and the last two bonus missions 
 in single player.
  
  The game plays just as you would expect. The character moves around the level for you. You do have 
 limited control over where the camera looks, but even that is almost unnecessary. The bulk of your 
 job is aiming and shooting at the various enemies. There were a couple of things about the game 
 that weren't quite perfect. The targeting reticule is so large that it made it hard to see exactly 
 where I was aiming at an enemy in the distance. The automatic motion of the camera isn't always 
 convenient, either. It is always moving and sometimes can make it difficult to target. Occasionally, 
 it will decide to turn away from a group of enemies that you are shooting at to look at a random 
 door or wall. Sometimes you will come across an enemy that will hit you before you have a chance 
 to react unless you have played the level a few times and know they are there. Also, the critical 
 hit zone on the zombies' forehead is a little small and is more difficult to hit than I think it 
 needs to be. Basically, if it is not dead center, it doesn't count as a critical. The on screen 
 target moves a split second slower than other Wii games, which can be annoying when trying to take 
 down a large group of enemies quickly or aiming for several critical hits in a row, though many 
 people may not even notice. These things did bug me a little, but didn't detract from the experience 
 too much. The rest of the game has a lot to like. There are a ton of weapons to use, including 
 several different shotguns, machine guns, grenade launchers and the ever trusty unlimited ammo 
 pistol. Weapons are hidden in each level (some are concealed better than others) and ammo is carried 
 over from one mission to the next. If you horde your ammo until the end of the game, the final 
 levels can be a little easy, but that didn't make them any less enjoyable. All of the bosses are 
 fun, challenging, and memorable. The Nemesis battle is one of the game's greatest moments. It will 
 be a long time before I get the sound out of my mind of him roaring "STARS!" while stalking me 
 through the level. For those of you that don't know, STARS is the name of several of the characters' 
 squad. It stand for Special Tactics And Rescue Service.
  
  The story covers most of the Resident Evil timeline, although it leaves out Resident Evil 2 and 
 4. I understand leaving out 4 because the full version of that game is available on the Wii. Unless 
 there are plans to also port 2 to this console, I don't really know why they skipped it. Bonus 
 missions give you insight into what other character were doing during the original storyline. Not 
 only is this a fun way for seasoned RE vets to reminisce over the highlights of the series, it 
 is also a great way for newcomers to get caught up on the history. Many of the rooms are recognizable 
 from the original versions and the cutscenes, while graphically improved, remain basically the 
 same. Anyone who played the first Resident Evil will recall the cutscene that introduces the first 
 zombie. It was awesome to see that scene so faithfully recreated. The main story arc just covers 
 the basics of what happened in each game, but files hidden around each level fill in the gaps. 
 If you manage to find all of the files, you will know just about anything you ever wanted to know 
 about the series.
  
  The graphics are quite impressive for the Wii. They are better than some Xbox 360 or PS3 titles 
 I have seen recently (Soldier of Fortune: Payback comes to mind) . The levels look great and really 
 keep the atmosphere creepy and foreboding. The game doesn't really contain any scenes or events 
 that make you jump. Personally, I preferred this, but horror fans may feel like the game wasn't 
 truly scary without these moments. Enemies react realistically to bullet hits. Shots to the face 
 will fling their head back. Hits to the shoulder or arms will push that side of their body back. 
 Zombies can be knocked to the ground and slowed down by getting shot in the legs. They flinch at 
 shots to the chest, though these shots are basically absorbed, but that is exactly what to expect 
 from an undead enemy. No matter where you hit them, their reactions are impressive. There is a 
 somewhat low number of character models for the zombies. So much so that in a large group, you 
 will see several of the same ones on screen at once. Aside from zombies, there are other monsters 
 that attack you to help change things up, but not a large number. Even those enemies may start 
 to seem repetitive.
  
  Aside from the mentioned problems, this game does everything right to be a great rail shooter. 
 Long time fans will enjoy the trip down memory lane and newcomers will appreciate the background 
 story. This is the type of game that continues giving you goals to aim for even after every mission 
 is completed. As long as the game keeps throwing zombies at me, I am perfectly content to keep 
 dropping them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyzerx12
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2009 1:56 pm PT
Review:  As most people realize, Capcom has made some really amazing games. This is one of them. When you 
 first start, it takes you to the game BioHazard 0. The only difference is it is much shorter because, 
 it must fit Resident Evils 1 3 and the end before it finishes. The game has good graphics and is 
 fun to try and customize your guns to get the best, but it also has letdowns. One let down is that 
 you cant choose the path you want at certain times, and you cant go back to where you want. This 
 game also reverts back to the house of the dead, by copying the bosses most of the time, and the 
 first person shooting of the undead idea. Some other things that are bad are the gun fights, because 
 you cant just get a gun, or upgrade, with any ordinary thing like money, but instead you need stars. 
 Getting stars is hard to, that is if you want many of them at once. Another thing is that when 
 you get upgrades, many don't do much when you first pick your gun, before the game starts. I suggest 
 if you lie Resident Evil and first person shooters, get the game, otherwise rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebuckeye08
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2009 6:20 am PT
Review:  Very fun, exciting, and will entertain you for days, mothnts, and well even a year. (If trying to 
 unlock the handcannon) .
  
  I'm very glad they made this game, because resident evil 4: Wii edition gets old some time, and 
 thats when its time to pop in this game.
  
  The graphics are very good. (for a wii game) . and the boss fights are as fun as ever. And you dont 
 even need to use the numnchuck, just point and shoot with the wii remote.
  This game is pretty lenghy, and stuff to unlock.
  
  But the main thing that was great, was the 
 story, it was a great part of the game, im saying that ive really played the next chapter even 
 when i very bord just to watch the cut scenes, and find out what the heck was going on with wesker........
 
  
  Whats leading to a 10 from a 7?
  
  Well the voice acting sucked in my opinion.
  good voice acting and well 8.5.
  The music was off, good music, and well maybe this game could 
 be a 9.
  Make the there be more blood, and well weve got ourselves almost a perfect game, 9.5.
  
  Why 
 not 10?10 means perfect, and this game isnt perfect, could of bean close but hey.
  
  Must own..
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzelKosMos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  The wii is a system that almost seems to have been designed for lightgun games. It has a controller 
 with an infared pointer, what more do you want? Capcom obviously thought the same and Resident 
 Evil Umbrella Chronicles was born.
  
  RE: UC is essentially a best of collection as each chapter goes through one of the Resident Evil 
 games 0,1,3 as well as some exclusive chapters. This isn't some kind of cheap knock out though 
 for cash as there is real effort put in, with every detail recognizable if you had played the originals, 
 as well as extras. Though this is really a game for the fans, anyone can play it.
  
  To sum up a company known as Umbrella had been doing experiments making biological weapons and 
 through the process created a virus that turned humans into zombies causing an outbreak in Racoon 
 city in the US. You play the role of various police officers or others that were swept up in the 
 events including Jill Valentine, Chris Redfield, Rebecca Chambers Hunk and even Wesker.
  
  The game plays out in a standard on the rails lightgun game with a few twists. For a start the 
 edge of the screen is not entirely what your character is confined to, as you can look around slightly 
 in all directions using the nunchuck giving slightly more visibility and that second chance to 
 get ammo or healing items you may have missed. Secondly being a Resident Evil title guns are not 
 your only option and sometimes not the best choice as the knife will often be more effective against 
 the smaller vermin such as spiders / crows and dogs that attack you and conserving ammo is quite 
 important.
  
  There are various weapons available throughout the game all in classes of magnum, rocket launcher 
 machine gun shotgun etc, all with different stats including attack power, fire rate, reload speed 
 that can be upgraded with stars earned completing levels. Each weapon has it's own ammo as well 
 that will be saved to it between levels and sometimes replaying levels to collect ammo is a good 
 idea as you can only choose one to take with you.
  
  The controls work really well with the game allowing you to shoot, reload, use a knife, throw a 
 grenade all very quickly should you need to, though don't use the wii zapper, I know it should 
 be brilliant but due to rapid button quick time events it's not as comfortable to use as you would 
 think.
  
  The level variation is brilliant with trains, subways, ruined cities and mansions all of which 
 look surprisingly good on the wii, the enemy models are just as detailed with the zombies flesh 
 rotting off in places giving the game a fantastic gruesome atmosphere.
  
  The sound is excellent though disappointingly most of the cheesy lines and bad voice acting from 
 RE1 have been replaced with a much higher quality performance :P Every groan and shriek is pretty 
 much what you would expect from what you are facing matching the visuals for that creepy mood.
 
  
  RE: UC is full of extras to unlock, including collecting intel giving back story segments to the 
 RE series found hidden in destructible items throughout the whole game including lights, picture 
 frames, tables etc. There are also several hidden mini missions where you can play as different 
 characters to unlock, ranks on each mission to replay and a two player mode to unlock among other 
 things so it should keep you going for quite a while, and this game is no walk in the park, it 
 is made by Capcom after all.
  
  So bottom line is if you like light gun games, love the Resident Evil series and want to see a 
 little more about it then you really can't go wrong with Umbrella Chronicles, at the worst give 
 it a weekend rent as it's possible to finish it in that time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sportsmen2008
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Overall this is a fantastic game and one I am very happy to have played. I feel the only reason 
 I can drop it from a 10 to a 9 is because I kept comparing it to RE4. This really is not fair to 
 this game but oh well.
  
  The graphics are just fantastic and are some of the best I have seen for the wii. I liked the story 
 line and it fills you in, just in case you missed out on some of the earlier RE games. The game 
 play was very good, and kept you guessing with each new agenda, bosses, and objectives. The shooting 
 aspect oft he game is good, but I have always liked 3rd person shooters best, so again it could 
 be my own bias. 
  
  This game was fun to play alone, but is fantastic with someone else. It really adds a nice new 
 level to this game. So when you have friends over make sure they try this game out, it will be 
 good for them and you!
  
  
  This is a game you have to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LasPlagasHope
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 17, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  Capcom took an interesting step in making their latest entry into the Resident Evil series by making 
 it a light gun shooter. You'd think it wouldn't work out very well when this has been tried before 
 for RE games and it only led to disappointment. But fear not Resident Evil fans this time around 
 it works very well and is a lot of fun. It is essentially A summery of RE 0,1,3, and adds a whole 
 new chapter that fallows Jill and Chris in 2003 (right before Resident Evil 4) . For some reason 
 it left out the 2 most notable games in the series RE 2 and Code Veronica X which was a big head 
 stracher.
  
  As far as the story line goes it is broken up into chapters and sub chapters. Each main chapter 
 for example the first 1 which covers RE 0 has 3 main levels which sums up the game and 2 sub levels 
 which fallows Albert Wesker and what he was up to at the time. These sub chapter are alot of fun 
 because it fills in alot of unanswered questions but inturn creats even bigger ones. My only real 
 beef with the story is that it slightly changes the event to get to the main events in the chapters 
 but it is done very well and gives someone who is new to the francise a really good idea of whats 
 been going on. To get through all of it it will probably take you about 25 hours is you plan on 
 unlocking evenything which is pretty good. And it has some good replay value.
  
  The light gun element to the game is one of its draws. You point the wiimote at the screen and 
 you can kind of turn your head with the nunchuck joystick but for the most part you're on a rale. 
 It's a simple point and shoot and zombies and bosses have week spots that are highlighted when 
 aim at. With zombie its a head shot and a direct hit will result in an explosing head and a fountain 
 and blood. With bosses it just does more damage. While playing you find Umbrella icons that you 
 shoot and unlocks a file some of them are hidden clevery and finding all of then contributes to 
 its replay value.
  
  Graphics are a little under RE4's the monster look great and the cut scenes are prerendered and 
 look very nice. But the environments can looks a little blochy. The really cool thing is almost 
 everything is destructable. You'll actually get graded on how much other stuff you shoot on top 
 of the monsters. My one real complaint is the soundtract some of it is good but on the other hand 
 some of it is really cheesey and messes up the mood of the game.
  
  All in all Resident Evil: The Umbrella Cronicles is a big "thank you" from Capcom. And I recomend 
 this game to anyone who owns a wii and likes a good zombie killing spree! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastiffchild
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  I got this cheap and maybe that colours my opinion a bit but certainly I wouldn't be upset had 
 I paid full for it.
  
  As a fan of RE in general the trip down memory lane from a different perspective was always gonna 
 have some interest for me (and a little more Ada always hits the spot) .
  
  Yes it's on rails, yes it's basically just a lightgun shooter but it creates the exct environments 
 you know and love in great detail (which probably stopped it ever being likely to be a graphical 
 beauty) and provides more RE info than you can shake a big sticky stick at. Once you're used to 
 the controls (5 mins) and the small sweet spots on the zombies/infected it's fine and taken in chunks 
 of half an hour I find it a blast in 2 player especially.
  
  It's none too tasking, the sounds are bang on (music aside) and a pair of circular boss fights aside 
 this is a light gun shooter with RE extras and memories galore that also needs you to stay true 
 to the series dogma of watching your ammo closely (unlike HoTD where you can kill stuff regularly 
 with one shot and not woprry) . So it introduces a little more thought than most games of this kind.
 
  
  You'll know and love the characters and bosses and played with a mate and , maybe the intoxicant 
 of your choice, this can be brilliant good old zombie mashing fun with the survival horror vibe 
 heightened by having to be sparing with your best guns. Any RE fan would get pleasure enough out 
 of the extras alone to make this worth a punt now that it's so cheap (cost me 10) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Punumscott
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  First of all if you know nothing about Resident Evil; you can make it your mission to go out and 
 buy the original for PS1, it's cheap and a great game that I guarantee will hook you to the survival 
 Horror Genre. 
  
  Back to this game. 
  
  Umbrella Chronicles does exactly what it is made to do. Inform Newer fans about the history of 
 the Resident Evil Series. AND IT DOES A GREAT JOB!! Not only does it take you through the story 
 quick but it also provides a quick summary of the missions. (Except for the Raccoon's destruction 
 scenario which is totally different the original.) But because of this goal to inform newer fans 
 it wasn't as great has it could have been.
  
  The Good
  
  1. It goes back to the root of Resident Evil, which old fans will love.
  
  2. It gives a good 
 quick summary of the Series for newer fans.
  
  3. New information that is good to fill in loose gaps
  
  4. Fits well in with the Genre. If 
 you played this game and no other RE game then you would think RE was in fact an On-Rails shooter 
 from the beginning. In fact it ports over so well it sweeps the floor with other shooters like 
 House of the Dead. IMO
  
  5. Nice Pacing: The pacing of the Game is perfect. It is hard enough that it goes nice and slow. 
 Increasing the tension, instead of being a fast paced blast everything in sight.
  
  6. Nice Difficulty: For me it was a hard game, but the difficulty of scoring critical hits on enemies 
 fits just right and keeps with the ever important RE mood and feel of having near invincible enemies.
 
  
  7. Gotta love the zombies: The Zombies in this game are great the fact that it takes a lot to kill 
 them adds to the mood and feel. They feel and act well... like zombies should shuffling around errantly. 
 Giving you just enough time to score those head shots and go yes!
  
  8. Weapons: the Weapons were great! there were many weapons that have different abilities and are 
 just insanely awesome to use, and you quickly become attached to 1 gun like it is your babe. Though 
 there are some weapons that you will just never use.
  
  The Bad
  
  1. Cloned: The enemies are repeated. Some of the weapons feel the same. After a while you'll feel...."Haven't 
 I played this level before?"
  
  2. Music: I wanted even more ominous music then was included. It would have helped the theme a lot 
 more.
  
  3. Boss Fights: Because it is on rails the boss fights are extremely boring with the same bosses 
 repeating the same attacks. Though they are creative in the different attacks. The difficulty of 
 bosses often change as the first boss is harder then a lot of the later bosses making the beginning 
 a big turn off to some casual players.
  
  4. On Rails: Restricted movement... what else is there?
  
  5. No big differences between which 
 characters you choose.
  
  
  
  All in all this is a great game and a must have for those new or old to resident evil. Or those 
 who just want fun shooting zombies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: possesed_fox
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  ok let's sat it now umbrella chronicles isn't the best resident evil ever but it's still not a 
 bad game for that much. on rail shooters might not be the coolest type of shooters but when you 
 play them with friends it can actually turn out quite fun. let's see the good and the bad in this 
 resident evil game
  
  The Goods:
  
  1- you get to replay events from resident evil 0, resident evil 1 and resident evil 3 all together 
 in the same game but that's not all! there are also some new missions giving more information on 
 the resident evil universe for example you get to play as Wesker when he has to escape the mansion's 
 facility (end of resident evil 1)
  
  2- classic enemies from the other resident evil game returns like: Crows, Neptune (infected shark) , Cerberus (zombie 
 dog) , Crismon heads (red headed super zombies) and even Nemesis
  
  3-you get enough freedom as to pick different paths interactive cinematic's and even a great deal 
 of weapons
  each with their own force and weaknesses (you can even upgrade them thanks to points you get from 
 completing the missions)
  
  4- the game rewards you with files from the other resident evil game if you finish the missions 
 fast enough or if you find them hidden across the stages * those files consist of classic files 
 you find from other game, monster description, and some new ones to once again learn you more about 
 the series
  
  The Bad:
  
  1- well the obvious the fact that it's a on rail shooter makes the gameplay a bit slow it's not 
 that much of a bad point after a while you get over it
  
  2- what's the point of picking the character you control if the only time you see them on screen 
 is when you have to push a zombie that is trying to bite you?
  
  3- how come the new missions can only be played by one player and the old missions can be played 
 by two players?
  
  4- even tough sometimes you get to choose a path the you'll end up seeing the same backgrounds 
 in less than 2 minutes (what's the point of a splitting track then?)
  
  in conclusion this game isn't the best resident evil out there and if your not a fan of the series 
 you shouldn't start with this one but if you already played resident evil before and you want to 
 learn more about it's story then you should give it a shoot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawn1Hero
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles is an addictive game, taking place through-out Resident Evil 
 0, 1, and 3. It shows a summarized version of both games, a fun experience for fans of the games 
 who can see slight improvements to areas or reminisce over "what's in the room you just passed."
 
  
  The feeling is very nostalgic through most of the game, and being able to go through a certain 
 area over and over again makes the game even more fun. Having to find files and profiles for different 
 creatures or allies through-out each stage by breaking items is difficult, but fun. On top of that, 
 getting an "A" or "S" rank on a level gives you an item related to that level purely to bring back 
 memories of the item in that game.
  
  If you're a fan of Resident Evil and want a good, scary experience that you can even share with 
 a friend, this is by far the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RiiZ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  Man, this game is awesome. Lots og weapons, lots of zombies and lots of hours, of entertainment. 
 I just simply love this game. as a huge fan og Resident Evil games in general, this is a must. 
 Great graphics for the Wii and a great 2-player experience. The crosairs, can be a little confusing 
 telling form one another, but when you'r getting used to it, God!, you won't ever regret paying 
 full price for the baby.
  You Love Resident Evil?
  You Love the classics, RE1, 2 and 3?
  This will bring nostalgic moments all the way through, garantied.
  This game allso guides you 
 through RE0, which, in my opinion, was the weakest of all the RE games (here i don't include RE4, 
 which in my opinion, is not a real RE game) - but even though it guides you through this, some 
 what lousy game, it's still fun! it's chronological, so of course you start with RE0, which means 
 it's the easiest of all the levels, so you will get through it quick. Smart move!
  This is a great game!...
  ... go but it!...
  ..... NOW!
  9,5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyRice
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Cool cutscenes; cheesy voice acting that fits the B movie horror style; a lot of information 
 about the history of Resident Evil that'll interest you whether you've played the old games or 
 not; quite a bit of content; controls that new gamers can easily get used to; you're shooting zombies, 
 and you can do it with a friend.
  
  The Bad: In-game graphics are worse than Resident Evil 4's, from 2005; playing a long time gets 
 boring; little control over the camera; no Resident Evil 2 levels; the aiming system is noticeably 
 so-so.
  
  Resident Evil 4 completely revitalized and changed up the old, aging franchise of a massive zombie 
 invasion in Raccoon City. The camera work, control system, graphics, creepy music, and new emphasis 
 on action made for one of the greatest games ever made.
  
  Umbrella Chronicles is a completely different take, telling the history of the Umbrella Corporation, 
 creators of the zombifying T-Virus. This is basically the background to Resident Evil 4, which 
 focused on a new virus that Umbrella was trying to steal to help bring back the dead company.
 
  
  Unlike RE4, this one is an on-rails shooter, meaning you won't be controlling your characters movement, 
 it's first person, and sadly, there's little camera control. But nevertheless, it's pretty fun 
 to blast some zombies with a buddy, as you can imagine.
  
  The control system is noticeably simplistic. You'll be shooting, knifing, throwing grenades, switching 
 out guns, and reloading- that's about it. It's not a very big step up from Wii Sports in terms 
 of buttons, meaning your dad, for example, who just got convinced games are still fun, can probably 
 get into it pretty easily. Basically, Capcom gave a rated M Wii Sports a shot, with shooting, and 
 it turned out pretty well.
  
  The buttons are all responsive of course, and reloading is great, but the aiming system is a little 
 off. The pointer doesn't seem very precise, making it even harder to pull off nearly-impossible 
 critical hits, to blow off zombie heads the way you want to.
  
  On the upside, the game is capable of utilizing the Wii Zapper, in case you were wondering why 
 you got that and Link's Crossbow Training. The buttons are pretty easy to handle, as you just need 
 a shoot button, a switch guns button, and an alternate item button (for your knife and grenade) , 
 and it feels more like a gun. While the Zapper's B Button trigger doesn't pick up that you hit 
 it 100% of the time, it's much easier to aim accurately, and it's a pretty cool feeling.
  
  The graphics and music are both major disappointments though, coming from the franchise that just 
 proved the Gamecube could do five times what people thought it could. The Wii is capable of twice 
 that, so Umbrella Chronicles, by all rights, should have some spectacular graphics.
  
  Unfortunately, no. The cutscenes look pretty nice, but in-game, the graphics are pretty weak- more 
 like a Gamecube title, but worse than RE4.
  
  The sound, in terms of shooting and grenades is excellent. The voice acting is so-so and the script 
 is cheesy, but that's basically a staple of Resident Evil by now, so that's a good thing. So long 
 as Jill isn't almost a Jill Sandwich...
  
  And the music is just so-so too. It is kind of cool once in awhile, but it doesn't creep up on 
 you like Resident Evil 4's, which added a lot of scare to the game. Instead it's kind of loud and 
 obnoxious when it should be trying to be quiet, then loud at certain parts, like a horror movie/ 
 game usually does. It's not that it's particularly bad, but it doesn't fit.
  
  As for gameplay, you'll find the pointer issue isn't terrible, but it's kind of difficult pulling 
 off critical hits. These one-hit K. O. s are judged for your score in each level, so it's important 
 to do well on them, but they're extremely hard to get. You have to hit exactly at the hair line 
 of the zombie in question to make the head blow up, and being more exact would've helped. On the 
 upside, the pointer does show you when you'll make a critical hit.
  
  There's a lot of meat to the game, surprisingly. Fifteen to twenty hours of levels are packed in 
 here, bringing you through Resident Evil 0, 1, 3, and a couple completely new areas. There's no 
 Resident Evil 2 support, which is disappointing as it's considered one of the best games in the 
 series. Still, a new part of Ada's history is revealed, a secret HUNK level is available for hardcore 
 fans to salivate over, and Umbrella's End is finally shown, the missing link in the story.
  
  I personally don't understand the complaints about the Umbrella's End section. I found them 
 a lot of fun, relatively difficult (expectedly, being at the end) , and they informed us about the 
 destruction of Umbrella's last facility the way we wanted, not Resident Evil 4's glossing over 
 of the fact. Plus, Wesker's perspective all game is awesome to see, as he's one of the coolest 
 characters, and a villain.
  
  Mulitplayer's a lot of fun, and one of the best parts of the game, but some levels can't be done 
 in multiplayer, which is a bit of a nuisance. Still, you can probably perfect your attempts through 
 each level more efficiently in single player, so you can level up your guns and unlock secret levels.
 
  
  Playing one or two levels every once in awhile is a blast, but playing much more than that, as 
 you'd expect, gets kind of dull and repetitive. That's a shame if you're a big Resident Evil fan 
 and want to blast through the game, but since this kind of aims to let new gamers in easy, it might 
 be good that a lot of the fun is best in short bursts.
  
  Upgrading all the guns, getting the highest scores on each level, and playing through all three 
 difficulty levels will definitely take some time too, so that'll help keep you coming back for 
 more.
  
  Overall, Umbrella Chronicles comes in as a success. The story pieces fill in hardcore gamers and 
 introduce new Resident Evil fans to the history of the franchise, plus the controls aren't too 
 bad for newcoming gamers. That allows for a broad appeal, so despite the pointer issues, disappointing 
 graphics, and the fact the formula isn't changed up much to keep it fresh for long periods of time, 
 Umbrella Chronicles is definitely worth a look.
  
  If you've played all the games in the series, you'll get some great story bits. If you loved Resident 
 Evil 4 and want to see what came before it, this is probably a better choice than going back and 
 playing the old, aging games. If Wii Sports just got you into gaming and you're old enough for 
 M rated games, this is for you too. Let's shoot some zombies, Raccoon City's packed with'em. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RTRGRZA
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 15, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles is basically a trip down Capcom's memory lane of one of its 
 best franchises. This one plays much differently than any RE game released to date. The mechanics 
 are that of a traditional arcade rail shooter, which is good for those that want to make the best 
 of the wiimote's point and click mechanics to shoot zombies and other undead monsters. 
  The story of the game is a combination of highlights from Rez 0 thr Rez 3 Nemesis. While the game 
 controls your movement, you have to point and shoot at whatever's trying to eat your brains onscreen. 
 You'll have plenty of weapons to do your job. Every character comes with a handgun with unlimited 
 ammo, a handful of grenades, and the option of a secondary weapon. These can be upgraded to increase 
 their power, reload speed, capacity and firing speed. This adds a sense of strategy to the kind 
 of weaponry for you to use. You'll find more new weapons as you proceed through the game. 
  For the fans, UC delivers fanservice by the bucketload. Many of the classic characters, including 
 Chris, Jill, Rebecca and Wesker, are all here, as well as the terribly good dialogue the series 
 is known for. If you're a fan, you probably know the story by know, but no one's here for the story 
 anyway.
  Like I mentioned, the game plays like a classic arcade shooter. Point at the screen and fire with 
 the trigger. Shake the remote to reload and hold down A and then press B to throw a grenade. While 
 holding A, swing the controller to attack with yourr knife. The game also features quick time events. 
 The most common ones are when an enemy gets ahold of you. Press the right button or shake the controller 
 to set yourself free. The enemies can go from your average zombies to leeches, birds to dogs, and 
 then your hilked-out monster boss battles that will make you go "Oh my god. I'm screwed." These 
 part of the game can be frustrating at times, much like in other rail shooters. Since you have 
 nowhere to run, your only option is to shoot down the enemy before he kills you. This is really 
 infuriating when you make it through the game by the edge of your teeth with nothing but your pistol 
 left. But, they're still satisfying and nice to experience. The game's lack of voluntary movement 
 makes the game harder than it should be. While it keeps the game from getting boring, it becomes 
 tiring when you only have to checkpoints in each level, those are halfway and the boss fight, and 
 when you die, you have to repeat the same part of the level you had to go through before. Not to 
 mention this makes the game get repetitive quickly.
  The atmosphere is what you will expect from the series today. Let's be honest, Capcom has stopped 
 trying to scare us a long time ago. Now, we get an intense action game that will leave you raining 
 showers of bullets on your enemies. As for replay value, there are a couple of bonus missions you 
 can unlock within the main story and go back to your previous missions to improve your score, but 
 that's pretty much it. You can also go back to find Umbrella Files to get a little information 
 on the characters. There's no online, but you can team up with a friend in co-op and play together.
 
  Overall, UC is a solid title that should appeal for all RE fans. I haven't been following much 
 of the early games, but I had fun with it. I felt the game was motivating me to become a better 
 marksman. While the gameplay has little variation, it's still worth a try, even if you've never 
 been a part of STARS.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjrumbough
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is a solid addition to resident evil stuff and it is fun to play wit a friend but if 
 u play by youself on the missions that you can play wit a friend it gets really hard and frustrating 
 so if you have some friends that you can play this game with then you should buy this but if not 
 then better off buying no more heroes or something (which is also a good game) .
  But it does have fun single player side missions so that will be worth your while. Its also great 
 even without the wii zapper and you can play with just the remote and not the nunchuck attachment, 
 which i think is kinda nice cuz i can text and shoot at the same time. 
  Well there is one thing that i would like to point out that the sound for the guns shooting could 
 be better cuz its like they just copied the noises off a resident evil game for the PS, so the 
 gun shooting noises could be better. Its also cool that when you shoot you can hear it out of your 
 wii remote, so its just the simple things about this game that make it good.
  
  So buy it if you have some friends to play it with cuz it can be a fun party game even with two 
 players
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jakanadin
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of horror games, although, as sadw as this sounds, I hardly play them ^.^. Although 
 an exception to this is, is to the Resident Evil Series. To me, Resident Evil has always been more 
 of an action game than a horror game, although one like Umbrella Chronicles does have its pretty 
 damn scary moments. I personally LOVE Umbrella Chronicles because of my personal most favorite 
 video game character of all time is in it. That's right, Albert Wesker. Biggest bad ass of any 
 video game, hands down. We are talking about the guy who LAUGHS at a mansion filled with zombies 
 and immortal, as well as immoral experiments ok? He is just all around bad ass, the killer shades, 
 the awesome hair, the even more awesome voice, I could write a whole spin-off of Resident Evil 
 just about Albert Wesker, and I just may do so. But enough of my damned rambling, lets get on with 
 it. Resident Evil: The Umbrella Chronicles is another "Love or Hate" game. Many Pro's, many Con's:
 
  
  Pro's: Awesome graphics, bad ass characters, fun 2 Player action, interactive scenes, gratuitous 
 gore scenes and tense game play keeps me wanting more and more! I will let you be the decider on 
 whether or not you should get this game or not.
  
  Con's: The Rail-Shooter things isn't my cup of tea.. At all, repetitive boss fights, having to 
 go back and forth in a boss fight gets very repetitive and annoying, not very many original monsters, 
 alot are the same from the other Resident Evils, and I personally would love to see a few dead 
 cats or dead tigers or any type of Zoo animal here and there.
  
  I completely recommend Resident Evil: The Umbrella Chronicles if you are the type of person who 
 is a hardcore fan of Resident Evil, or just a shooter fan, even if you aren't both, I recommend 
 you still at least rent this game because it isn't something you should miss. So all in all, Resident 
 Evil: The Umbrella Chronicles on a scale of 1-10, gets a 9/10, for having my favorite video game 
 character in it, as well as the great graphics, awesome story line that helps you understand Resident 
 Evil more, and co-op. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomWarrior69
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil The Umbrella Chronicles is a great game. Its like an arcade game, like House Of The 
 Dead but better. This game has amazing graphics. The gameplay is awesome. Resident Evil combines 
 Resident Evil Zero, Resident Evil, and Resident Evil 3 Nemesis. It shows you the major parts of 
 the games and what is not done in the games. Single player is alright but Co-Op is amazing. You 
 have to work together to survive. There are plenty of zombies and monsters waiting in every room. 
 It is a lot of fun and a spectacular game. One bad thing about this game is that its a short game. 
 It should be much longer so you can have a better gaming expierience. This game is in all time 
 classic and a fun game for all Resident Evil fans. I would reccomend it to anybody who is a Resident 
 Evil fan or likes old style shooting arcade games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JACKAL1883
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 11:30 pm PT
Review:  i have a lot of wii games and this one is on top. the only game that beats it is brawl enough said. 
 the only thing i do not like is the aiming it's like playing with a mouse. it doesn't come close 
 to time crisis 4 which has great aim and collaboration. but all in all i still had fun playing 
 the game. ohh yeah if you don't like resident evil you won't like this game. i wish more guncom 
 3 games would come out. and the wii had a good calibration for the shooters. one of these days 
 we will have a shooter that involves the balance board and controller. this game is certainly long 
 enough and has plenty of content and is fun with others i would buy it again in a heart beat. When 
 writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We 
 encourage you to try to get your review right the first time - you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  It's actually been a long time since I beat Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles, I guess I just 
 forgot to write a review of the game. I guess I forgot because I found Umbrella Chronicles to be 
 either aimed at the Resident Evil fan base or a semiservicible way to milk a franchise with already 
 sore teats.
  
  
  The story actually recaps Resident Evil 0 through Resident Evil Nemesis' plots. Actually recap 
 is a misnomer, it actually waters down the stories into a barely connected punch of shoot outs. 
 It's nice to see some of these locations on hardware that can do the games a little more justice 
 but not much new will be learned from this game. Playing through the game does however unlock certain 
 small side quests that may, or may not, teach you some new things about the resident Evil mythos. 
 
  
  
  Like I said, some of these games haven't been visited upon since the PS1 days so it's nice to see 
 some of these games on an updated engine. What you will see in this game won't blow you away by 
 any means as it seems that Chronicles doesn't push the Wii to its limits. 
  
  
  Two things you can bet your herbs on, the creepy music that permeates all other resident evil games 
 is still of the same quality here, and so unfortunately are the piss poor voice acting. It's still 
 a step up from the original but the dialogue and voices still make me moan every once in awhile.
 
  
  
  The gameplay is still of the light gun sort with a brief Wii overhaul. Shaking the nunchuk happens 
 to reload the weapon and there are a few instances of quick time events in which you'll have to 
 either press a button or move the Wii-mote in accordance with what flashes on the screen. It seems 
 a little gimmicky but it does a great job of breaking up the monotony of shooting. 
  
  
  Shooting isn't entirely strategy-less and that is a good thing. Certain creature have weak points 
 that can be exploited. Not only does this sometimes save precious bullets but also some time. There 
 are also various icons to shoot that will net you either health, extra lives, better weapons or 
 even unlockable little notes you can read in your spare time. It's pretty much only in those notes 
 where one can find a little more information that will piece together the story if they didn't 
 already know some of it.
  
  
  RE: UC is a relatively short game, beatable in a mere 4-6 hours of gameplay. In Resident Evil fashion 
 there is a grading system that you can always go back to improve but I found the best way to get 
 more time out of this game was to go through it cooperatively. Kicking zombie ass and blowing off 
 mutant heads is much more fun when you have a partner involved especially when playing solo equals 
 very little fun.
  
  
  Umbrella Chronicles missed me in fan service and felt more like franchise milking to me. There 
 is a bit added fun when I was playing with a friend but not enough to warrant a full purchase of 
 the game when it initially came out. Too bad I did buy it when it first came out because this game 
 is merely worth a rental at best.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiriusXXX74
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  **This is my first ever review of a game, so please keep that in mind when critiquing**
  
  
  The first Wii exclusive Resident Evil title (while Resident Evil 4, an awesome Wii title in 
 it's own right, is merely a port of the PS2 release adapted to the Wii control scheme) . Umbrella 
 Chronicles is an on-rail shooter and is a summary of the events of Resident Evil 0, 1 and 3, while 
 adding a few extra perspectives like Billy Cohen (RE 0) , Hunk, and Albert Wesker; to name a few.
 
  
  The game was designed to fill in the gaps and many fan requests/queries in regards to story. It 
 definitely promotes use of the Wii Zapper attachment (considering it was released at exactly the 
 same time) . RE 2, RE: Code Veronica, and RE 4 were left out. My theory is so that after Capcom 
 gets back input as to how Umbrella Chronicles sells and is received by fans, they'll have stuff 
 to use for and Umbrella Chronicles 2.
  
  Normally, I'm not a first-person shooter gamer. But, I am a Resident Evil fan, so I decided to 
 give this a shot (pardon the pun) . Let me first start by saying, this game is freakin' hard! Even 
 on Easy Mode, trying to get that critical hit to conserve ammo; shake off those that get to close 
 and not get overwhelmed by the swarms of zombies, bugs, bats, spiders, birds, etc...; or get the 
 crap kicked out of you by bosses, you end up with major hand cramps!
  
  Luckily you can customize the controls because use of just the Wii-mote and nunchuk or with the 
 Wii Zapper is all a matter of preference.
  
  The replay value can be awesome in regards to levels if you're a hardcore gamer (or just an obsessive 
 Resident Evil fan) . Almost everything is destroyable, which is good if you're looking for that 
 elusive file. Plus, to unlock everything you need to get good enough to get an A Ranking or S Ranking 
 on every mission on Normal/Hard. Insane right? Well, if you want more powerful weapons (which you 
 will) , you'll want to redo missions and get better rankings to get stars to upgrade your firepower 
 and ammo capacity.
  
  if you are an RE fan, you'll want to strive for those perfect scores and find all those files. 
 It's totally worth it for all the info and story that is revealed. When zombies get to close and 
 are going to try and take a bite out of you, each character's way of dealing with them (when urged 
 to) is awesome! I am very glad they decided to stick with the Nintendo remakes footage and not 
 the PlayStation releases. It would've been an insult to the Wii's capabilities. Plus, I mean come 
 on, the acting in RE 1 (PSone) was just to painful for words!
  
  Now, to prove that I'm not totally biased, the downside of this release. First off, this game should 
 not have been released as an on-rails shooter. It screams for free motion and being able to check 
 everything out (like in normal RE games) . It's already hard enough without being locked on course. 
 Some people may not mind, but this is my review and my opinion. I would've liked it to be like 
 other RE titles. Keep it in first-person by all means! But, give us free range, exploration and 
 save points (huzzah for typewriters! LOL) . Second, the precision of the targeting system has got 
 to be improved! I can't tell you how many times I would shoot a zombie in the head with the targeting 
 receptacle flashing and still no critical and the zombie would keep coming. And the ultimate let 
 down for this title? You actually have to get to the last stage before 2 Player Mode is unlocked!!! 
 I mean, what the heck is that?! Half the fun of a game like this is playing with someone else! 
  . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alf0nz0
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 18, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  If you like going to an arcade and kill zombies you need to buy this game, its also more entertaining 
 if you play with a friend or somebody because maybe boss fights will get a little too hard.
  Maybe a bad thing will be that you cant move as you wish, or when the big guys want to eat you 
 and you got to shake the nun-chuck (and using the wii zapper) it isnt very comfortable.
  Anyway its fun to play and kill all that things XD
  I havent finished it yet but its too short 
 and very hard to get high scores, but maybe if you're a resident evil fan you will play it a lot, 
 but if you arent then try another game because this one is only to explain a few things.
  By the way, I always use the wii zapper and I just bought the game for using it and it makes the 
 game feel a little more realistic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assassin98765
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 4, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Umbrella chronicles is quite poor, because of the controls, gameplay elements and the switch of 
 camera.
  The Wii Zapper is a game to be ideal for this, its not the controls are much much better when just 
 using the remote.
  The controls as well are poor, they dont capture the feel of gunning down hordes of zombies.
 
  If youve played Resident Evil 4, then youll know that its a third person shooter, Umbrella Chronicles 
 isnt its an arcade style First Person shooter it dont look great on a screen.
  The storys OK as it tells the story of the Fall of the Umbrella corporation, and it reveals the 
 end for Sergei The umbrella corps boss. Wesker is the one who can finish the fight.
  please if you love shooters buy Resi Evil 4 Wii edition
  The guns in resie evil umbrells chronicles 
 are good but you cant see them as its first person which is annoying, all it says about them is 
 what they are at the top of the screen, it wiuld be cool to be wesker and fire a shotgun at sergei 
 but no you cant, theres no multiplayer or mini games or extras but you can play as Hunk a character 
 from Resi Evil 4.
  This game is either waste of money or time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atom1cPunk
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 3, 2008 4:14 am PT
Review:  This game which i rented from gamefly then bought is a good game all around. This game explores 
 environments seen in resident evil 0,1,2,3 and even follows the storyline a bit with a few twists. 
 When i first bought it i played the first set of missions (Train Derailment) and this game in my 
 view is an updated version of house of the dead the king of on rail shooters. I was surprised about 
 how interactive the game is with the boss battles but what really annoyed me was there was a boss 
 battle at the end of every mission but thats okay. Ive been playing for a while and i decided to 
 put the difficulty to hard and it seemed like a pretty decent higher level. But one of the most 
 funnest things about this game is the co-operative mode you unlock by beating HUNK's survivor missions. 
 This game is pretty lengthy taking a long time to beat and even the results screen after every 
 mission reminds me of house of the dead. You get letter grades in 5 subjects showing you how good 
 or bad you did S being the highest And F Being the lowest based on that you will get stars or stage 
 points which you can use to customize your guns for the ultimate zombie killing expierence. All 
 in all i give this game an 8 for its very fun gameplay and interactive gameplay environments and 
 a great co-op mode but it didn't have to be an on rails shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: payne6705
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 12:26 am PT
Review:  Note : I played this game with the Wii zapper and I found the zapper to be fun and entertaining 
 BUT you do not need it and some players felt its a waste of 20 bucks hey each to their own
  
  
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  This game is a simple light gun shooter a monster comes on the screen 
 you shoot it, it goes down and each RE game is broken into 3 sections and at the end of each section 
 there is either a boss battle (like a giant snake, the giant plant etc etc) or swarms of enemies 
 BUT this game is different from other zombie on rails shooter and its basically the zombies take 
 a long time to go down now what I mean is that the zombies take a lot of damage BUT in the game 
 there is something called "critical hits" which only happen for zombies your shooting reticle glows 
 red while point at a spefic spot on the zombie's head and you shoot and its head explodes a one 
 shot kill also (once again only for zombies) if you hit them in certain spots (legs, arms, just 
 like RE4) they either fall or flinch and that gives you an extra 2-8 seconds you need to take them 
 down also another feature taken from RE4 is some cut scenes require a specific button combo to 
 make it through also you can upgrade weapons with stars.... yes stars you get stars by getting a 
 rank to get a high rank you have to find hidden files (hiding in the level you have to shoot at 
 random destructible things) , critical hits, enemy hits (which I'm not so sure what that means) 
 objects destroyed, and time, and kills plus there is also hidden playable levels (like a Rebbecca 
 scenario, wesker, HUNK etc etc) oh ya one more thing Co-op is available and its pretty fun 
  
  
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  For a Wii game the graphics are decent the zombies look scary the 
 hunters look scary and the scenery looks nice with the bullet holes and blood you cover the wall 
 in plus it has a destructible environment and I adore those!! 
  
  
  
  AUDIO:
  
  The audio is decent the guns sound great the zombies have great sounds its pretty solid it has 
 some old and new RE music and sounds so the fans (like me) will enjoy it the only problem i had 
 and wished i muted the game was when your characters you play as talk (I'll get more into that 
 a tad later) 
  
  
  
  
  CONS:
  
  There are some Cons to this game the 1st and foremost is when your character's speak they say the 
 most retarded assine things i could ever think for example when you are fighting for awhile in 
 the mansion Jill says you know Chris.... there is something odd with this mansion... wtf you shot 
 like 30 zombies and now you say this!! or my favorite when they see the giant snake Jill says watch 
 out for the fangs I bet their poisonous... ya... but another problem is there are some parts in the 
 game where no matter how fast you shoot you get hit for example I was in a level my camera turned 
 very quickly and b4 i could see any enemy I got hit by a hunter.... I was like huh?? weird another 
 problem is some enemies have like 5 seconds of invincibility for example a hunter (man its always 
 the hunters lol) jump from a hallway I had a shot gun usually hunters go down in 2-3 shoots it 
 look at me screamed and just stood there for 5 seconds I must have shot it 4-6 times not until 
 it moved I actually had a shot now that bothered me because ammo in the games (like most RE games) 
 is scarce and I wasted 4-6 shots that I might have needed for something else and my final problem 
 was that SOME boss battles are way too hard even with the upgraded weapons and like ya....
  
  
  CLOSING:
  
  This game is fun and great for any RE fan it does a quick summary of all 
 3 games (even though they leave allot out) and it will keep you playing for all the hidden things 
 I had fun with the game and if you enjoy RE then get it if you like light gun shooters then either 
 get it or rent it... other then that I can't promise you will like this type of game
  
  
  
  FOR WII ZAPPER OWNERS:
  
  If you own a Wii zapper there is more than a good chance you 
 own this game BUT if you don't then I have to tell you one thing that confused the hell out of 
 me you can use the Wii nunchuk "C" button as the "A" button to pick things up (your cursor blinks 
 and says press "A" to pick up) YET during cut scenes you MUST hit the "A"button on the Wii mote 
 NOT the "C" button on the nunchuk for some reason it won't work 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 5:24 am PT
Review:  
 
  
  True to its name, REUC is a chronicles of Umbrella Corporation, the original point of all disasters 
 in RE. By means of recalling main events in prior versions, players will have a chance to recap 
 the whole history of this evil Corp. With its story line stretching from RE: Zero to one year before 
 the event in RE 4, we can control 8 characters belonging to different versions: Chris Redfield, 
 Jill Valentine, Rebecca Chambers, Billy Coen, Carlos Oliveira, Ada Wong, HUNK v Albert Wesker. 
 Capcom hopes this version will bring about familiar feeling for old fans, and at the same time 
 new experience through game play different from what you have seen in these versions.
  
   
 
  
  It's basically a bull's eye shooting game, so the adventure factor is minimized. Even your character's 
 movement is carried out by machine along the pre-designated way, hence your task is to control 
 bull's eye exactly with Wii controller, collect weapons, ammunition, and items for restoring hit 
 point. Speed and accuracy is two requirement to beat opponents in this game, including zombies 
 and other monsters. In many cases, a precise "head-shot" will be more efficient than spending the 
 whole cartridge-belt on "unimportant" parts on their bodies. All the monsters have such fatal weakness 
 somewhere so you need to discover and take advantage. This also help saving ammunition for weapons 
 with high demolishing ability, since your handgun is the only weapon with unlimited bullets. Dagger 
 is not a bad choice in close combat. And at the end of each scene, you will receive rewards base 
 on your score to upgrade weapons.
  
  The way this game allow us to control bull's eye with Wii remote is very good. However, to play 
 comfortably you will need time to get used to speed of the bull's eye. In REUC, it only requires 
 a slight shake to reload your guns, assuring the speed of action scenes. It's also comfortable 
 to switch weapons with C button of Nunchuk or using dagger by pressing and holding A while moving 
 your remote. In some boss fight, you are required to use an exact combination of buttons to dodge 
 attacks.
  
  Monster are well designed. Normally slow enemies have more hit point than quick ones. Bosses are 
 all tough, provide you some challenge. Check points appear in short distance so don't worry about 
 running a long way again and again. With many difficulty level, this game is available to both 
 hard-core RE fans and new ones. Besides, coop between 2 players is very interesting.
  
  
 
  
  Although not among the most famous products of RE trademark, this game take a big step forward 
 from 3 prior RE games of bull's eye shot genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelove1
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil: The Umbrella Chrorthnicles is a great game that takes you thruogh the story of Umbrella 
 in a on rails shooter. Although it is a very good game it still has it's flaws. 
  
  Although you'd expect the heros to be wha it revolves apon actually it revolves around Wesker. 
 Huh?! Yes, you will play as Jill, Chris, and so forth but the main theme of the game is Wesker. 
 You will play through each game and the new Russia story with the main Resident Evil charecters 
 but then you can play through the story to see what Wesker, Ada, Hunk, and Rebecca do during the 
 games. This gives another great reason to buy this game. The backround story is what will drag 
 in Resident Evil fans. 
  
  The graphics ae the best graphics for an Resident Evil game so far but they're not the best Wii 
 graphics I've seen. The colors are pretty good but the charecters and backrounds could of done 
 better even if it is a Wii game.
  But the voice acting's the worst. I knew they wanted to show the history of Resident Evil but not 
 the history of it's voice acting. YUCK!!!!!
  
  Resident Evil: The Umbrella Chronicles is a must have for fans and first person shooter fans. I 
 don't know how people could live without it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Curtis_Bundy
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 17, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Alright some people say this is a sequel to the RE Survivor series well your wrong it is basically 
 taking the most important seens from some of the RE games (0,1,2 some of, and 3) and amping them 
 up into a Zombie Rail Shooter and also adding a new RE world to expand on the story.
  Now when you first start playing you choose from one or two characters depending on what scenario 
 you choosed then you pick a weapon and then you go into the level. You can shoot zombies and creature 
 anywhere you want to but with Zombies and Crimson Heads (Super Zombies with a read body) if you 
 hit them in the direct middle of the forehead you get a critical hit and will kill them instantly 
 and will help you get a better score.
  Speaking of which the scoring system is the C-S scoring like in Devil May Cry or in some shooters. 
 The higher and better score total you get like if you get a S you get 4 stars to use to upgrade 
 your weapons and if you find weapons while playing the game you can upgrade those ones too. 
  There is co-op in some of the levels with two characters like in the first Scenario with Rebecca 
 and Billy. But if you finish the whole game and betting every single Scenario besides the secret 
 one you can play co-op no matter how many characters there are.
  Also in the levels are items that you can collect like files and be able to get a higher score 
 and to read on some RE history and about and so SECRETS of the games. Also the more files higher 
 grade and to be able obtain some items from the games too.
  To end this review I recommend getting this game for someone is a die hard fan of the RE series 
 (like I am) and for anyone into zombies or really fast action.
  SECRET- If you bet Hard Mode with all S's (Basically get all S's in a mission but you can have 
 2 A's though just so you know) you will get infinite ammo on all weapons so get to playing. And 
 can be done single or co-op but I recommend doing it in co-op.
  BYE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Igissx
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  this game i got to say is one of the best rail shooters around but the rail shooting series should 
 die already. This does not bring much new to the rail shootin series because its the same thing 
 like any other rail shooter just some more needed "attachments". I got to say that the graphics 
 are outstanding on the wii's standards. The voice actting can get you excited and eager to just 
 play them, especially Wekers voice. Some old shcool voice acting comes in. The weapons are various 
 but hard to come by. It sometimes seems that you waste more ammo on breaking the chairs desks etc 
 to find more weapons, but you can still get through the game with just your hand gun but sooner 
 or later you half to get a gun. 
  
  Do not read this paragraph if you DID NOT FINISH THE GAME! There are some misssions that require 
 you to recieve a weapon such as in Racccons Destruction you are required to get the mrl and defeat 
 nemisis.
  
  There are some things that drag the game along such as incredibly hard bosses that you wish you 
 can kill already such as yawn, a mutated snake that has to be killed by shootin it in the mouth. 
 Some enemies can get aggressive to a point where they can kill you even when you are shootin them 
 in the face. Some enemies can kill you even if you got a rocket launcher. Also the weapons have 
 unrealistic damage such as the machine gun can hold over a hundred bullets a clip but can only 
 kill about 7 zombies. Even with all these downfalls this is one of the best games to buy for the 
 wii. ONE LAST THING. DO NOT BUY THIS IF YOU ARE A FIRST TIME WII OWNER OR YOU WILL GET BADLY PISSED 
 OFF! I give this game an Igissx approved 10. Plz read my other resident evil reviews 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkthemaniac
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  The Wii was seen as a way for gameplay mechanics to take form or be resurrected. In this case, 
 the on-rails shooter is making a resurgence on the console. One such effort, and the only effort 
 as of now that isn't a port, is Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles. Is it good? Well, its an on-rails 
 game, and those have always been fun, but it may be time to leave the genre behind.
  
  The game's story takes you through the locales of Resident Evil 0-3, excluding 2 for some retarded 
 reason-and yes, it is a retarded reason. You play as Jill, Chris, Rebecca, the whole team, but 
 you also get to play as Wesker, which is a change. It takes you through the different events of 
 said games in an on-rails fashion.
  
  The gameplay is basically the same as every other on-rails shooter. You get different guns, you 
 shoot people. This game mixes it up to some degree by allowing knife combat and ammo scavenging, 
 as well as finding documents that reveal more of the story. It's a good incentive to keep you attentive, 
 if you're into that kind of thing.
  
  If you're not, then it's no different than any other on-rails game, excluding it has the license. 
 It can be fun fighting wave after wave of zombies if you're looking for a simple, visceral experience, 
 but sometimes it's ridiculous, which can be blamed on the intense difficulty of the Hard setting 
 and the easiness of the Medium setting. There's no balance. The difficulty stems from lack of checkpoints, 
 little shooting time, and the fact that your guns barely phase a zombie. If you could see the recoil, 
 the shooting would have been more satisfying.
  
  As far as the presentation, it's pretty lackluster. Visuals are muddy, the VO (and dialogue) is 
 painfully cheesy and stock, and the music is present. It shouldn't have been. Lack of music enhances 
 the atmosphere exponentially, and the techno beats did nothing but hamper it.
  
  Overall, it can be fun at times, especially if you have a friend, but it can get frustrating. If 
 you're not interested in Resident Evil, then it isn't for you. If you are, then you should have 
 some fun with the sheer feeling it gives you, but it won't last long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 19, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of the Resident Evil series and have been playing them since I was young. The greatest 
 game that I have ever played is by far Resident Evil 4. That game blew away anythign I have ever 
 played with awesome control and movement around the entire screen and from one place to another. 
 I was hoping this would be a great game just like RE4 but with better graphics, I was wrong.
  
  I did not like the effects of the railshooter for this game at all. You have no control in 
 where you are walking and you will start to turn a corner soo fast if you are not paying attention 
 you will miss goodies, rewards, and other items that you have to click on during the game. I prefer 
 how in RE4 you have full control of where you go and what you are doing. In this game you are controlled 
 on where to go and have no control over going left or right and coming back to find something that 
 you missed! So if you are low on ammo and need some and it's around the corner and you sneeze or 
 yawn for 2 seconds and miss it... your screwed! You can't go back and get anything, which I absolutely 
 hated about the game! I absolutely refused to use the Wiizapper for this game as it was impossible 
 to use when zombies grab you and you have to shake wildly left and right to get them off of you, 
 it was impossible to do with the clunky Wiizapper, so I held the nunchuck and wiimote the entire 
 game and ditched the zapper.
  
  The graphics were decent on this game and bring to life the greatness of zombies in RE games, the 
 atmosphere are well done as well and attention to detail was made to the best you can get on the 
 Wii system which lacks HD compatibility.
  
  Many of the boss fights were just insanely hard and took a while to get past many of them while 
 others were quite easy.
  
  Overall the game had a great RE feel to it, and I love zombie games, but I hated the railshooter 
 effect of this game as I like full control of my people and prefer 3rd person shooter games where 
 I can see my character and control them in all directions.
  
  I would recommend this to someone in the bargain bin or a rental only, it is not worth a purchase 
 in my oppinion as single player gameplay was good enough for me in a few hours. The game can be 
 beaten in about 8-10 hours and does not require any extra skill to do so, just beware of the railshooter 
 aspect and some pretty hard ass boss fights along the way. Good thing the game is not rated E for 
 everyone as I highly doubt a young kid would be able to actually beat many of the bosses in this 
 game. If they toned down the boss fighting a bit the game may have been more enjoyable. But when 
 a game is too hard to have fun when playing, it pisses me off to have to redo boss fight over and 
 over and over again because the developers make it too hard. Tone it down and make it a 3rd person 
 shooter next time and I'm all for it!
  
  Can't wait for RE5 to come out, when it comes out... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChiefMrBam
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 10, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Light Gun Shooters as a whole tend to suffer from short length allowing the player to run through 
 the entire game in an hour or so. RE Umbrella Chronicles does not have this problem, the average 
 player will likely take around 8 to 12 hours for an initial play through. The game offers various 
 difficulties as well as plenty of unlockables from simple collectibles and Resident Evil back story 
 to extra weapons and levels.
  
  The game does support the Zapper but this is a mixed blessing. It generally makes aiming easier 
 yet gesture based controls seem far less responsive. This in turn can hinder you in one of the 
 games many timed button pressing / remote swinging mini games. 
  
  Events from Resident Evil 0, 1, 3 and a new chapter created specifically for Umbrella Chronicles 
 are all covered. Resident evil 2 is omitted likely because its main locale is covered in the RE 
 3 segment and RE 4 simply would have been a tough fit. Thanks to this those who have never played 
 the RE series before or those who came in at 4 now have a reference point that gives a condensed 
 version of the series history that showcases some of the more memorable bosses, characters and 
 locales from the earlier games. 
  
  Umbrella Chronicles takes the standard light gun shooter formula and tweaks it slightly by slowing 
 down the pacing. By doing this the game manages to keep a sense of tension and feel very much like 
 Resident Evil. Their are a handful of choices for difficulty but on a whole Umbrella Chronicles 
 is not too hard. Bosses will likely take a couple attempts to figure out what patterns and weapons 
 work best but the challenge is fair. Their is also a co-op mode which works well and can be a lot 
 of fun, providing incentive to go through the game again.
  
  The slower pace and excellent use of Resident Evil characters and locales coupled with responsive 
 shooting controls, good length, solid multiplayer and a fair challenge makes this an easy game 
 to recommend to any fan of Resident Evil or light gun shooters in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 9, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Story: Play throgh diffrent scenes of resident evil games.
  
  Missions: Kill the Zombies with diffrent guns.
  
  Controls: Wii zapper/wiimote
  
  Features: ok 
 storyline, intresting concept for a wii game.
  
  A. I.: Not Horrible. They try and kill you. Sometimes they get stuck in walls thogh
  
  Loading 
 Times: short, usually around 15 seconds when loading into diffrent areas.
  
  Graphics: They are not bad at all actually. Some of the best we have seen on the wii yet.
  
 
  Audio: Amazing. Voice acting is superb. Everything is good about the Audio.
  
  Multiplayer: None at all.
  
  Requirements: a wii, wii zapper, wiimote
  
  The Good: Audio 
 and story, some fun gameplay
  
  The Bad: Glitches. Zombies get stuck in walls at times. and it seems that the zombies get stuck 
 alot. random game crashes
  
  The Ugly: Your Health Packs are pot. WTF?
  
  Replay Ability: Low/none
  
  The Bottom Line: a intresting concept but just does not cut it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soenderup32
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 5:17 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil - The Umbrella Chronicles are a very nice game! The story in the game is unbelievable 
 good! The story is about how zombies came to earth through "worms" and so on. Maybe it's because 
 I'm a BIG fan of zombie games and movies, but this game is very good!
  
  The graphics in the game, are okay, not perfect, but average.
  
  The controls are very nice 
 and it makes the game very entertaining and fast, that you have to opportunity to, cut with you 
 nice, half a second after, you have shoot at them, with your gun, shotgun, machinegun or whatever!
 
  
  Singleplayer works very well and if you want to play multiplayer, this game also offers a very 
 good opportunity! In multiplayer, you play exact the same story, as in singleplayer, but now you 
 are two players, going through the nightmare together  of cause it's a bit harder in multiplayer, 
 so it doesn't gets boring!
  
  
  The game brings the perfect atmosphere, from the first resident evil movie! - not like the 2nd 
 and 3rd, who was very bad, but from the first, with the right music and so on!
  
  The Umbrella Chronicles are sertanly worth the money and time and if you like zombie movies and 
 games, you shouldn't wait a single secound to buy this game!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarHero670
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 9, 2008 3:25 am PT
Review:  Umbrella Chronicles is a step away from the traditional Resident Evil theme. Umbrella Chronicles 
 is an on-rails shooter set in the events of RE0, RE1 and Outbreak. The game also includes a brand 
 new scenario named "Umbrella's End" but I'm not going to spoil things as one of RE's biggest strengths 
 has always been the plot. The gameplay is standard shooter, you shoot stuff and computer does moving 
 for you. What's cool is that there are breakable object in the background that often unveil hidden 
 items including ammo and healing items. Depending on how well you did in the level you are given 
 Star Poins and these can be used to upgrade your weapons which is a must if you want to beat some 
 of the harder sections of the game.
  
  Now this game ain't easy fi you want to beat the game you'll have to repeat stages to find out 
 what to hit and when to hit it and what weapons you should be saving ammo for. Beating the stages 
 is a bit of trail and error but beating the bosses takes skill as you have to unload at it's weak 
 at the right time to avoid being smashed. This game also takes a page from RE4 by having cutscenes 
 where you have to mash buttons or shake the wii-mote to dodge stuff.
  
  This game also has a 2-player co-op mode, while not all levels are 2-player most of them are plus 
 you can even unlock two player for the levels that are usually one player! Having a friend to play 
 instantly makes the game a bit easier as you have more firepower and a larger life bar. The downside 
 is that you both have to get the cutscenes correct or you both take damage (you share a life bar 
 you see) .
  
  Umbrella Chronicles is a fantastic entry in the genre. It has solid gameplay, some new mechanics 
 and an awesome and fun 2-player co-op mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyauau
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 15, 2009 7:53 am PT
Review:  If you played the Resident Evil 4 on the Wii and you need a break from it, this game will change 
 the pace give you one reminder that can only be played on PS2? Time Crisis.
  
  If you miss the Time Crisis series, there's Link's Crossbow Training, Medal of Honors 2 and other 
 games that comes under the category. The major difference is previously, the PS2, you have to move 
 the crossfire while moving through the game, the Wii gives you free movement around the screen 
 making it easier for you to shoot. It should be just right for fans who are into shooting games. 
 The only downside is the need to find more ammo and health to stay alive in this game. It's a must 
 that you need to upgrade your weapons if you want to survive.
  
  It's worth noting that after Resident Evil 4, it's no coincidence that this game makes good use 
 of in-game cutscenes and graphics of the first person view is very sharp with or without progressive 
 scanning.
  
  Even though the music isn't as edgy and horrorifying, still like every other game, it plays out 
 like a movie. The voice acting is excellent and the sound effects still reminds me of Resident 
 Evil 4.
  
  This game will take about an average of 8 hours and while you get to relive the series, it would've 
 been better had they round out with the Resident Evil 4 levels involving spanish villagers and 
 the like including playing Leon Kennedy from this game and Resident Evil 2. Nonetheless, the moments 
 will last in your memory.
  
  I'm no stranger to disagreements on my other games but this game is a reminder of Time Crisis mix 
 with horror. The only strategy is using the write gun for the right foe will help conserve ammo 
 and having better music and value would've extend the life of the game. If you miss Time Crisis 
 or you get tired of Resident Evil 4 and needed a break, this game is for you but I recommend starting 
 with the easy difficulty in order to learn how it works. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamefreak
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  The game overall is great, i really liked the idea about making a resident evil on the zapper so 
 far, the game is good, they tell you the whole story about umbrella and resident evil they put 
 characters from all the games in the series, starting from zero until the all new fall of umbrella 
 in the facility 
  , the gamepaly is great the way the movie's were made were awesome, good graphic's, almost everything 
 in the game is good, when i first saw it i thought the game was not that nice, but when i bought 
 it and tried it i saw there was more to the game than just it's cover the way i played it, there 
 was a lot of blood wich made me bloodthirsty for more, this game is a good game with good graphic's 
 and a good way of playing, if any of you has not bought it yet you all should because you will like 
 the game very much really im not lying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickelbacked91
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Finally. A game that fully utilises the Wii's potential. The graphics are brilliant. The gameplay 
 is amazing. And everything about it is just ... wow.
  There are two kinds of games for the Wii everyone wants to play. The lightsaber game, and the lightgun 
 game. Red Steel attempted to put them both together, and although a decent attempt, it wasn't exactly 
 brilliant. Umbrella Chronicles however, simply stuck to the lightgun, and in doing so, have succeeded 
 in making a top-class game.
  There was a risk that Capcom would try and do a Red Steel by using the knife like a sword, but 
 fortunately they didn't, and decided to focus on the gun side of things.
  The story is well put together. Admittedly the story was already there, with them simply taking 
 the story from RE 0, 1 and 3. But it all seems to slot into place brilliantly, and the addition 
 of some of the side missions to answer some of the "plot holes" was a stroke of genius.
  Personally, I think it would have been good to see Resident Evil 2, and Resident Evil 4 in there 
 as well, but I guess they wouldn't have worked quite as well.
  There are a few problems though. As the game progresses, checkpoints and healing/ammo becomes a 
 little scarce. Some of the enemies seem incredibly hard to take down without running down your 
 entire supply of weapons. And it's incredibly hard to upgrade your weapons. Other than that though, 
 it's all good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverninga0
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 27, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a big RE fan. I played RE 4 for the GC and the Wii. Those were pretty fun, except for the 
 Wii version. Like Gamespot reviews said. Too much zombies, too little ammo. Anyways, here, I'm 
 talking about REUC.
  
  Gameplay: For me, the gameplay was pretty good. I loved it, the way the cpu moves the character 
 and you shoot all the stuff and monsters. The only problem is, sometimes, when you want to find 
 documents or get that item, the cpu turns away making the document/item impossible to get unless 
 you have quick hands and press A right before it turns. 8/10
  
  Controls: I think the controls are good the way they are setup. It's just that when sometimes when 
 you counterattack, you miss it and get hurt because the shaking the wii remote side to side has 
 delays or something. 9/10
  
  Storyline: Definitely too short. 4 Hours to beat for a Resident Evil game? 30 minutes-1 hour of 
 each stories?? (A story is one of the RE games summarized or something like that and theres 3 storys 
 with 3 chapters each and some bonus chapter where you play wesker/hunk/ada.) You gotta be kidding 
 me. At least it's better than other shooting arcade games which lasts like 1-2 hours. 6/10
  
  Sounds: I dont think the game is scary at all unlike the previous games. The sounds doesnt 
 make the game creepy at all. It just sorta tells you when there's monsters/zombies...5/10
  
  Overall, this game isn't that bad. It's just the story that sucks and the music. The previous 
 RE4 games scared me in moments because of the music and sounds. This one didn't even scare me at 
 all. And the storyline for me took me around 4 hours to beat. I'm like WTFH???!! 4 hours for a 
 Resident Evil Game. That's like, the biggest bs ever for a RE Game. RE4 TOOK ME 10-20 HOURS, WTF 
 IS THIS !@#$?
  
  Nevertheless, the Co-Op is fun and the gameplay is fun. Controls are good to use except your arms 
 may get sore from moving it too much or just pressing the buttons while waving your arms around. 
 I recommend the Nyoko's Perfect Shot, or the Wii Zapper except I heard that the Zapper was somewhat 
 difficult to use for this game because of all the shaking.
  
  WOW MY SCORE WAS EXACTLY WAT GAMESPOT GAVE IT. O SHOOT, FINALLY I AGREE ON A GAMESPOT REVIEW SCORE. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAPPYDEATHCOW
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  This game was shweet. The ups: -The Multiplayer -The Difficulty -The characters -The Bosses The 
 Downs: -The Game Length
  
  This game was Awesome. The Co-op was good, especially the shared life thing, because no one can 
 take a mansion of zombies by them selfs. The game length was really short but it was almost covered 
 up by the other good factors like Difficulty, Characters, Bosses, and the Graphics. Another Bad 
 Factor Was The Fact That In Singleplayer the other character with you does nothing. So if your 
 like any normal person and love Blowing Zombies Heads off You'll like this game at least a little. 
 
  
  I give it a 6.5 out of 10 So Rock On Resident Evil Lovers This Game is worth Renting and if you 
 rate it higher buy it. HappyDeathCow OUT.......
  
  P. S. It would be shweet if you could unlock a Ninja or Pirate costume. Because EVERYONE loves killing 
 zombies in a Pirate or Ninja Suit......
  
  Legendary!!!!!! ;0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STARS_Splinter
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 20, 2008 2:33 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil. The name conjures up so many things. For those who have never heard of the series, 
 it brings images of something sinister living somewhere. For those long-term fans, it brings to 
 mind a series that has gone through many incarnations, fallen into many pitfalls, and somehow dragged 
 itself out of them into the future of videogames. For others, it might bring images of a film trilogy 
 starring Milla Jovovich, but we're going to forget about those sad people and concentrate on the 
 game and its history here.
  
  Because that is, in many ways, what Umbrella Chronicles does. UC allows you to revisit locations 
 from previous resi games, playing through them in a brand new way, and seeing snippets of storyline 
 and plot that, up until now, have been shrouded in mystery. Its squarely aimed at long-term fans 
 of the series, then, as much of the nuances of its story exposition will be meaningless to those 
 who have not played the games in question. For those gamers, UC offers a good deal- giving you 
 the chance to play as characters who featured in the games in question but were not playable, or 
 giving you extra parts of storyline omitted from the series and designed to fill in gaps in the 
 plot. From the original Resident Evil (or rather, its Gamecube remake) you can play a section as 
 STARS Captain Albert Wesker, to see his side of the story and what happens to him. It's a novel 
 idea, and one that will likely attract a lot of fans back to the series, to play it in a completely 
 different way.
  
  And what better way to make use of the Wii's motion sensitive capabilities than.... a lightgun 
 game?
  
  That's right. UC harks back to the good ol' days of the arcade, when Time Crisis and House of the 
 Dead and all those other on-rails shooters were all the rage and you couldn't step down an aisle 
 of cabinets without being poked by a protruding firearm. And in all fairness to UC, it does the 
 formula well. The Wiimote is easily responsive enough to work as a lightgun, although its diminutive 
 size might feel a little odd to those used to the arcades or Namco's GunCon. Controls are simple 
 enough, then- point at the screen, use the trigger to fire, shake the wiimote quickly from side 
 to side to reload (an RSI-inducing action, to be sure) and use the D-pad to switch to other weapons. 
 The d-pad is actually the only control niggle with the game; those of you with larger hands might 
 find it a bit awkward to tap the buttons to change weapon whilst simultaneously reloading and aiming 
 at a zombie. Everything else is as responsive and effortless as it should be. You can even perform 
 knife attacks by holding the B button and swishing the Wiimote from side to side.
  
  In fact, viewed as a lightgun game, RE: UC offers a great deal. It's a lengthy experience to be 
 sure, lasting for some 6-7 hours on a normal play through, and there's plenty to go back and unlock, 
 including various reports and files, additional weapons, and extra characters and modes. By any 
 other standard, it's a little shallow, but it offers more depth than many of its genre. It's also 
 good fun to play; the levels are varied enough to maintain the interest throughout, and the various 
 weapons and challenges the game throws at you serve to spice up the action a little.
  
  However, it's when viewed as a Resident Evil game that UC falls down a little. Whilst the chance 
 to-revisit, in first person, some famous locales from the series is exciting in theory, in practise 
 is doesn't play out so well. The first section- In Resident Evil Remake's Mansion  is exceptional, 
 as are the areas from Resident Evil Zero- for both sections Capcom has used the original models 
 used for the fmv backdrops but integrated them into the game. The Resident Evil 2 and 3 sections 
 are remarkably poor in comparison, however, as they use areas taken from the Outbreak games for 
 the PS2. Not only are these rather lower quality and bland-looking, but they also miss out many 
 of the locations from the games themselves- barely any of the Resident Evil 2 section, for example, 
 takes place in the Police Station.
  
  The game isn't beautiful at the best of times, as it simply recycles character models from older 
 games and doesn't attempt to spruce them up with any new bells or whistles, though there's still 
 visceral satisfaction to be gained from blasting zombies heads off so that they splatter all over 
 the place. The framerate also takes a couple of unfortunate nose-dives, usually when the game tries 
 to employ lighting effects that look outdated at best. Still, there's plenty of interaction in 
 the environments, and loads of objects and parts of scenery that can be destroyed, which adds a 
 nice level of detail.
  
  The music and sounds are the same recycled tunes you've heard before in Res games, although some 
 of the music tracks have been rather poorly remixed to suit UC's faster tempo, when in fact the 
 original, spooky soundtrack might have added another level of tension to the game. The voice acting 
 is equally uninspired, as few of the more established cast members return to lend voices to the 
 characters. The worst culprits are, oddly, Resident Evil 3's Nemesis- who rather camply mutters 
 'Stars?' every now and again, and villain Albert Wesker, who makes mention of a terrible incident 
 involving zombays, whatever those are. Resi's voice acting has never been top notch, (though 4 
 tries hard to shake the trend) but at times, UC feels more like one of the poor PSone Survivor 
 games.
  
  Still, when all's said and done, RE: UC is a blast to play, and that's the most important thing. 
 It's a must have for Resi fans, just for some of the story content, although some of this does 
 contradict previously established plot elements. But it's particularly enjoyable to play through 
 with a friend, and it does offer the great on-rails shooter gameplay that Time Crisis and Virtua 
 Cop popularised, and feels like a refined, more story-driven House of the Dead at times. In short, 
 it's fun. But don't expect it to last too long, or hold your attention long after you've completed 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rexCo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  I've never been a fan of rail shooters, and my experience with Umbrella Chronicles is no exception. 
 Despite being fairly fun to play through for the story (the addition of the hidden Umbrella Facility 
 and Wesker's various missions was pretty sweet) , Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles isn't worth 
 a buy, or even a 2nd play through, unless it's on Co-op. Even then, though, you're limited to certain 
 missions (you can't play the Wesker or Rebecca missions) . 
  The game does offer some "notes" that are hidden throughout the levels, and if you really want, 
 you can find all of these by blasting light bulbs etc, and get the little ins and outs of the deep 
 RE universe (such as the origins of the T-Virus and it's developer (s) , etc) . But overall, they 
 aren't really worth it, especially cuz they're usually not entertaining nor important. 
  
  The one thing UC is worth playing for is the Wesker and Umbrella facility story portions, explaining 
 the fall of Umbrella and the survival and adventures of Wesker reborn. And though many of the rails 
 battles are entertaining (the Wesker fights are actually really cool) , even on Easy the game is 
 a bit too hard at some points for my liking. That, and plain and simply, the game is a rail shooter, 
 so you really have little control over what you character does. So even though there are a million 
 other ways of escaping rockets coming at you or something to those ends, your character always 
 chooses the one where he has to shoot the rockets out of the air. Fun usually, but when you're 
 on the verge of death, probably the least strategic choice. Plus, rail-shooters just aren't deep 
 at all, and UC, despite a pretty good atmosphere and good narrative portions, can't escape that. 
 
  And even though story is UC's strongest point, it still didn't cover any of Wesker's plans etc 
 in RE4, which I really hoped for. 
  So despite some interesting plot points and decent action, RE: UC fails to have almost any replay 
 value or depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlbertoML
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  This game was surprisingly fun, as I really expected it to be bad, but nothing at all. The game 
 is basically a summary of the old storyline and a way to tie it with RE4, which basically started 
 with a clean slate regarding storyline.
  
  The game is very simple to control, just point and shoot! Wanna reload? Just shake the remote! 
 Wanna slash with your knife? Just keep pressed A and shake the remote! It's very simple in its 
 execution yet it's still fun to do so. The game is composed of four scenarios, which follow the 
 storylines of RE0, RE1, RE3 and a new one covering Umbrella's last stand. The game oozes with fan 
 service, with lots of classic locales from the series, such as the Spencer Mansion or the Police 
 Station, and classic items and weapons. The game contains every major enemy found in the old RE 
 games, such as zombies, chimeras, hunters and even Tyrants.
  
  This game is basically a retelling - told by Wesker - about how Umbrella fell and what his plans 
 are for the future, so besides replaying classic scenarios, you'll be able to play a new storyline 
 that runs parallel to the old one, regarding some new characters that have to do with Wesker and 
 the fall of Umbrella.
  
  Graphically speaking, it gets the job done but it's not great. At least, the game manages to keep 
 the same quality it had in the GC versions (RE0 and 1) , but the stages from RE3 look WAY better 
 than the original incarnation, and fighting a remastered Nemesis is awesome. It's a little disappointing 
 that graphics aren't better, they need more polish, as some shadows flicker and some animations 
 are a little stiff, but it doesn't look bad, it's just not as polished as it could have been.
 
  
  Sound is cool, too, even though it's a little out of place, it's very dynamic and doesn't exactly 
 fit the theme of the games but it's not bad at all - I loved it, I'm a fan of Masafumi Takada of 
 Killer7 fame. But all sound effects are back, and it's soooo cool that the Wiimote speaker makes 
 some sound effects while reloading or firing. The problem with sound is voice acting, which is 
 very, very bad, but well, it's so bad it's kinda funny, and a little of a nod to the old RE games 
 which also had bad voice acting. Nevertheless, Wesker's voice actor does a remarkable job.
  
  The only problems the game has regarding gameplay is that sometimes the accuracy of the pointer 
 doesn't feel right, it's too darn hard to hit the enemies' critical points, it feels rather cheap 
 than hard. The game recycles a lot of material, so although you're playing these stages from a 
 new POV, you've played most of this before.
  
  Also, the game is too short, it can be finished in an afternoon, so more stages could have benefited 
 it, although you can always go back to improve your ranking. To counter this, the game features 
 a co-op mode, which I must say is very good, and gives the game a longer-lasting value.
  
  Overall, it's a great RE game that is pure fan service. It's not perfect, as some levels are very 
 cheap regarding difficulty, hitting critical spots is tricky, graphics could have been better and 
 it could include more scenarios - WHERE'S RE2?? WHEREEE?? - but it's still a very fun game and 
 it features a cool new storyline that ties RE0/1/2/3 with 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDVP
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles
  
  
  The most recent addition to the Resident Evil franchise is a Wii exclusive. This on-rails shooter 
 covers the events in the Resident Evil universe from the initial outbreak to the end of Umbrella. 
 The game is played through several chapters that have you taking the role familiar characters trying 
 to survive the events of Resident Evil 0, 1, 3, and a new story where Umbrella finally gets what 
 it deserves. Most of Umbrella Chronicles is a re-telling of the story that all long time fans of 
 the franchise already know. However the game provides new details and insights into the outbreak 
 at Raccoon City. If the regular play through isn't enough the game has plenty of bonus missions. 
 In these missions you take on the role of Wesker, Rebecca, and other players in the Resident Evil 
 story. 
  
  The gameplay is what you would expect of an on-rails shooter. The game moves you along throughout 
 the classic environments and you use the remote as a gun to kill all the zombies in your way. The 
 remote does not function as a light gun, instead you use the motion sensing to "drag" a cursor 
 around the screen. While this might sound bad it plays incredibly well and the cursor helps the 
 aiming a lot. The default pistol has an unlimited amount of ammo but the bigger and badder guns 
 all have limited ammo that you must find throughout the level often hidden in breakable objects. 
 These big guns become almost a necessary for surviving in the later levels.
  
  Umbrella Chronicles provides a decent challenge without being too difficult. However those who 
 want a big challenge will find plenty while trying to S rank all the hard missions. Upgrading weapons 
 and searching for all the files will provide the player with significant replay value, and if you 
 have a friend to play with it will be a long time before you take it out of your Wii.
  
  Bottom line of Umbrella Chronicles is that it does a great job of putting you in the action of 
 the Resident Evil universe. The graphics, sound, and camera all do a great job of creating the 
 desperate atmosphere we expect in the series. Hands down this is my favorite console rail shooter 
 and I highly recommend it for fans of shooters or longtime RE fans.
  
  I give Resident Evil Umbrella Chronicles a 9.2 out of 10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omega-Pyre
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Capcom has made a fun twist to a game so many people enjoy by making it into a rail shooter. While 
 Resident Evil fans will really enjoy the classic scenarios, enemies, and characters, players new 
 to the series will enjoy the thrills it has to offer too. The Wii Zapper complements the game nicely, 
 giving it a very different feel than just pointing the Wii Remote at the TV screen.
  
  Umbrella Chronicles basically follows the stories of Resident Evil 0, 1, 3, and a new chapter added 
 to the game. You'll go around levels killing whatever comes your way with a fairly large selection 
 of weapons as well as shooting things in the environment to reveal things like weapons, files from 
 old RE games, and of course being able to use the environment as something to kill your enemies 
 with. The game looks great on the Wii, although you may encounter small bits of lag in very few 
 parts of the game. The game isn't too easy or too hard, and comes with different 3 levels of difficulty 
 to satisfy most anyone. The sounds in the game are generally what you'd expect from lots of gunfire 
 and a Resident Evil game. Also included is two player co-op, which works very well as long as you 
 have a skilled friend.
  
  The biggest problem with Umbrella Chronicles is it's lack of re-playability. While even if you 
 haven't found everything there is, you'll just be going through the same enemies and story, the 
 only thing really displaying even a hint of re-playability is choosing different paths to take 
 and going back and finding the weapons and files. So once it's over, it's basically over.
  
  Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles did a great job as a rail shooter and despite having the 
 same scenarios throughout the game, you'll want to come back to it when you have the desire for 
 a thrill. A great game worthy of a buy if you love shooting games and a good challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DzeTSNotorious
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Yes this game does not meet the traditional gameplay of the old resident evil games and yes the 
 format is a little weird, but this game went above and beyond my expectations.
  
  This game is a lot more addictive playing with the Wii Zapper, which also seemed to be poorly spoken 
 for. The story and the information given in this game fills in many of those spots that just didn't 
 make sence or weren't understood; like how Wesker escaped the mansion. I played the original game 
 when I was 6 years old back in 1996 and I have played every single game except Outbreak.
  
  I can truely tell you that if you love Resident Evil, you won't have any problems. In fact this 
 is one of the few remarkable games I found that are out to date on the Wii and should be a must 
 buy for any RE fan; die hard or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shawn_Watson
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Fans of RE 0, 1 and 3 will no doubt get a kick out of this game. All of the key locations from 
 these three entries get revisited and almost fully destructable in this rail-shooter.
  
  I ain't no fan of rail shooter games. They were fine back in the days of Operation Wolf but nowadays 
 they remind me too much of those awfully dated (and seemingly endless) House of the Dead games. 
 I was a little wearing when purchasing RE: TUC but I knew it would be far superior to the other 
 zombie shooter.
  
  In between the rehashed levels you get to play as Wesker and find up what he was up to behind the 
 scenes of the original games. If you unlock enough weapons and files you can also play a bonus 
 level set in an industrial facility owned by Umbrella in the Russian snowy wastelands.
  
  Some levels take a lot of repeating until you get the right combination of weapons and perfect 
 the timing but not to the point that you'll be chucking your remote at the wall. I am terrible 
 at these kind of games and I still managed it.
  
  What disappointed me the most was the total lack of any kind of atmosphere. But it's not really 
 that kind of game. RE: TUC is for those craving a dose of mindless violence rather than a problem-solving 
 thinker.
  
  But when you unlock absolutely everything there ain't much reason to go back to the game. It's 
 basically just something to keep the fans from starving until RE5 comes out, whenever that will 
 be. One thing's for sure, it won't be on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 8, 2008 1:34 am PT
Review:  (Letter Grade: C-) 
  Story: Resident Evil: The Umbrella Chronicles hits all the main story plots of Resident Evil Zero, 
 Resident Evil and Resident Evil: Nemesis. I was curious for as to why Capcom didn't include Resident 
 Evil 2, ever since Resident Evil 4 Leon has grown more popular, I suppose I can let that slide 
 though. As hinted from the game's title, you will pretty much be following the events that lead 
 to Umbrella's downfall. The game features many side missions that reveal hidden information you 
 might want to know about the Resident Evil series. Although the game does a pretty good job of 
 summarizing many of the Resident Evil games, I felt that Umbrella Chronicles only scratched the 
 surface; it seems that there just wasn't enough depth in the games' story plots. If you really 
 want to enjoy the full blown Resident Evil experience I suggest you play the real games, but for 
 the mean time Umbrella Chronicles will do.
  
  (Letter Grade: B+)
  Gameplay: Who doesn't love shooting zombies? In Umbrella Chronicles you will be spending most of 
 your time just doing that. It plays like a light-gun game, you will basically be pointing and shooting 
 at anything that moves or tries to kill you, but I'm not complaining. You also have the ability 
 to perform counter attacks or action sequences during cut scenes by following the button commands. 
 The entire game is co-op except the side missions (that is unless you really want to unlock side 
 missions in co-op) so now you don't have to slay zombies all by your lonesome. The environments 
 are somewhat destructible with breakable things ranging from lights to paintings. Majority of the 
 time your camera will move by itself, sometimes you will have the option to select the path you 
 want to go, but the game still feels a bit restrictive in terms of exploration. You are able to 
 customize your weapons in the game, but trust me, its not as great as it sounds. The shoot'em up 
 type of gameplay in Umbrella Chronicles is fun, and simple, and in the end isn't that what matters 
 most?
  
  (Letter Grade: C+)
  Graphics: Umbrella Chronicles retains the creepy feel and look of the environments of many of the 
 Resident Evil games. The lighting plays a huge effect in creating that tense atmosphere many of 
 those games are known for. (unless you're like me and just shoots off all the lights) There are 
 some ugly looking textures here and there, and I will admit that this game doesn't have the best 
 overall graphics on the Wii, but the environments are nicely detailed and have a distinct look 
 from one another. I should also note that the subtitles in the game sometimes can't keep up with 
 what the characters are saying, or sometimes just don't even appear. The in-game graphics might 
 not be the eye candy you were looking for, but it does a good enough job.
  
  (Letter Grade: D+)
  Sound: Umbrella Chronicles features some welldecent voice actors, I can't 
 say the same thing about Albert Wesker's voice though. His voice sounds so terrible that every 
 time a word comes out of his mouth someone dies in the world. The in-game music is pretty bad too, 
 not only does it do a TERRIBLE job in matching the game's atmosphere it also sounds repetitive 
 and downright butt ugly. The sound effects, zombies, and monsters were convincing and well done, 
 and if it wasn't for that the sound in the game would have gotten a flat F. 
  
  (Final Letter Grade: C-)
  Overall: Despite some of it's flaws, Resident Evil: The Umbrella Chronicles 
 is an enjoyable game, especially if you have someone to share the zombie blood with. It doesn't 
 really try anything innovative in story, gameplay, graphics, or even sound, but it does do one 
 thing, it delivers a fun action-packed zombie hunting adventure. With the game being about 6 to 
 7 hours long (including the side missions) , I would suggest you rent it first, but if you can cough 
 up the dough then by all means get the game, just be sure to think about your decision wisely.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Methuselah6463
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  This game was pretty cool.. and LOTS of fun... it was alittle lacking on some of the parts of the 
 story... but IT DID add to some parts of the video game story which actually make alot of sense.. when 
 all is said and done.. It isn't played like all the other Resident evil games in that its a rail 
 shooter game... but thats not bad cause there are TONS Of secrets in it that if you ever play the 
 game once you still don't know everything from what is orignally seen... have to play it a few 
 times to get everything out of it... the gun controlers are REALLY good... but playing it for to 
 long will cause your wrist to hurt.... HAHAH..."not going there" ANYWHO... its over all not a bad 
 game.. it can be very difficult to play at times but from time to time it gets difficult.. anyway 
 thats pretty much how it works... all the bad guys from the games were in it... odd as it may sound 
 thou... they skipped RE 2 which i didn't think they would do ... but whatever... anyway its a cool 
 game... everyone should check it out.... who is into the series... its not so bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YukoAsho
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 6, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  With my current LCD television, I'm unable to play House of the Dead 2 for Sega Dreamcast or Vampire 
 Night for PS2 because traditional lightguns don't work on LCD screens. Yes, not being able to play 
 House of the Dead 2 is a pain in the arse to me. However, having spent quite a lot of time with 
 Resident Evil: The Umbrella Chronicles for the Nintendo Wii, I must say that i've got me a great 
 little stand-in until House of the Dead 2 and 3 for Wii comes out... Well, that and I finally get 
 off my hindquarters and get Time Crisis 4 and the atrociously clunky Guncon 3.
  
  Since graphics aren't going to be a huge focus on this review, let's just get them out of the way. 
 No, this is not a huge improvement over Resident Evil 0, the remake or 4. In fact, the characters 
 generally look the way as they do in their Gamecube games. However, considering Capcom was able 
 to keep a constant and smooth framerate while keeping the character that pretty and using destructable 
 real-time backgrounds which faithfully reproduce their pre-rendered counterparts, The Umbrella 
 Chronicles shows that the Wii is far more than just a GameCube. The shadows are actually nice this 
 time around too. Even the cursor necessary to aim (since the Wii remote will never be as accurate 
 as a true light gun) is a pleasant red dot sight surrounded by graphical representation of the 
 amount of ammo left in the current clip.
  
  That done, let's get to the core of the game. Rather than create an entirely new storyline a la 
 Gun Survivor and Dead Aim, The Umbrella Chronicles takes us on a whirlwind tour of Resident Evils 
 0, 1 and 3, along with several behind the scenes scenarios starring our favorite evil triple-crosser 
 Albert Wesker. Now the 1-3 scenarios don't faithfully reproduce the storylines of the original 
 games, with edits necessary to facilitate co-op play. Perhaps most atrocious of the edits is the 
 Mansion Incident, which could have been more creatively played with for a Chris/Rebecca and Jill/Barry 
 pair of scenarios instead of a single Chris/Jill scenario. However the endings are pretty much 
 what they were in those games, and do a great job integrating the sub-scenarios and the completely 
 new fourth chapter, which is about as close to a new Gun Survivor game as we're likely to get for 
 a while. With the exception of Carlos Olivera, the original voice actors all return for their roles, 
 which is sure to set off nostaligic tingles. And of course, Wesker kicking butt the way he's prone 
 to do is sure to set off a fangasm for the Resident Evil faithful. It's only sad that Resident 
 Evil 2 wasn't given a scenario as well, but one can at least hope for an Umbrella Chronicles 2.
 
  
  Like most light-gun games, Umbrella Chronicles sends the characters on a set path, obliterating 
 horrific creatures left and right on the way to a boss battle. Thankfully, this game cuts out any 
 pretense that the player wants to do anything other than shoot like mad, and there are thankfully 
 no parts in any scenario that require people to aim around bumbling, idiotic civilians. That isn't 
 to say that there isn't any strategy involved. While players start off with a basic pistol with 
 unlimited ammo but somewhat poor stopping power, even this pea shooter can deal massive damage 
 when hitting an enemy's weak spot, such as a zombie's head or a massive serpent's mouth. Common 
 enemies can also be taken down instantly by targeting a very specific critical hit box, but these 
 spots are extremely tiny and require something of a crack shot to hit them with any consistency. 
 In addition, special weapons with limited ammo but plenty of ammo can be found by destroying objects 
 in the surrounding environment. Shooting out a pictureframe could reveal a rocket launcher! In 
 addition to special weapons and grenades, files and other history items can be found in the environment, 
 which adds a nice little layer of fan wank and expands the game's replay value immensely. To break 
 up the constant shooting, levels and fights are littered with quick-time events where button presses 
 and controller gestures are used to break out of or avoid attacks. Thankfully, the quick-time events 
 never require the use of the nunchuk, which is only used for minor camera pivoting. The knife can 
 also be used to hack at leeches or other similar enemies that like to cling onto players' faces. 
 The only annoying part of the gameplay is reloading. Rather than have players shoot off-screen 
 like a traditional light-gun game, it is necessary to give the remote a violent shake to manually 
 reload a weapon. Weapons will reload automatically when the clip empties, but that's obviously 
 a tactical disadvantage, so players will be left shaking the controller like mad and quite possibly 
 injuring their Wii remote wrist.
  
  Each main scenario is divided into three stages, which each have one checkpoint - not counting 
 the boss at the end. Most of the time, bosses will be a massive creature that requires targeting 
 a weak spot to damage at all. This can be incredibly frustrating at first, but the bosses are just 
 slow enough where cooler heads will be able to spot a pattern and go to town. This isn't to say 
 that they're easy. Indeed, at normal difficulty the game packs a wallop from start to finish, requiring 
 dogged perseverance to get through the stages. At the end of each stage, players are awarded star 
 points that can be used to upgrade the special weapons, making them even more powerful against 
 the undead hordes.
  
  The game features co-op play, where two players sharing the same life bar will be able to blast 
 away together. This makes the game a good bit easier, but it's still a heck of a lot of fun compared 
 to most games. The game's difficulty, however, is an issue, as differences between easy, normal 
 and hard are limited to the amount of damage taken per strike. Normal and hard earn the same amount 
 of star points, and have the same monsters behaving the same way. It's best to use hard only as 
 a co-op mode.
  
  While it's certainly no Time Crisis, Resident Evil: The Umbrella Chronicles is a fine game that 
 any light gun enthusiast or Resident Evil fan would do well to get. Now if only Capcom could port 
 Resident Evil Survivor 2: Code Veronica to the Wii and finally release it in the United States... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shillster89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  Umbrella Chronicles is very different from other Resident Evil games, in that it is an on-rails 
 game. So many people would think that it wouldn't be good, simply because you do not have control 
 over where your character goes, but the game is very fun and offers a lot of replay value. The 
 graphics are great, and the lighting is excellent as well. The sound effects are great, but the 
 music sometimes fits the atmosphere, and sometimes doesn't. The gameplay is very fun, and allows 
 the whole game to be played with 2 players. There are a bunch of missions to be done, and it is 
 fun to play them over and over again, and search for things that you have missed on the first run. 
 Over-all, some people may be turned off by the rail-shooter, but if you are a fan of Resident Evil 
 games, or rail-shooters, then you are bound to love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chroniclehobbit
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2008 2:12 am PT
Review:  Since the 1990's Resident Evil conjured up one thrill after another. After the success of RE4, 
 the original story has been sleeping in the shadows for a little while. It's a pleasant return 
 to what first made RE an experience for horror fans alike. The story involves a summary of the 
 fall of Umbrella divided into seperate missions, and follows up from Stars Bravo team onto Stars 
 Alpha team and perhaps beyond that as well. You'll encounter many of the old favorites such as 
 the zombies, Cerberus (zombie rottweillers) , bats, crows, nemesis, and many others. The only problem 
 existing here, is the music which seems to take away from the game play. It is hard to be scared 
 when the music is constantly distracting you from being scared (simply put) . another small issue 
 exists with the graphics which seem to slightly watered down from what one would expect from a 
 next generation console. 
  
  Other than that, there is plenty of fun to have here. 
  
  Get your Wii zapper ready and fire away.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaxxo
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  We all remember the old RE games, with strange camera, weird controls and horrible monsters. Yeah, 
 those ware good times, and now we can all see them again in a first-person perspective.
  
  --STORY --
  
  If you played any of the old Resident evil games you should know the story by 
 now, the evil company Umbrella created a new virus, the T-virus, that somehow leaked out and because 
 of rats and other animals the virus spread casing a biohazard outbreak.
  The virus hit a mountain town, Raccoon City, and turned the people there into living dead, zombies.
 
  
  --GAME-PLAY --
  
  Finally a Resident evil game in first person, just like the old arcade games all you see is your 
 cross-hair. Just like in the other games hordes of zombies will come at you, but this time you 
 can aim where you want, the head is a good place to aim, blast of a shot in their head and BOOM, 
 it's always so satisfying when the zombies heads blow up.
  The controls are so-so aiming is no problem at all, the control problems are re-loading and counter 
 attacks. It may be because my Wii-mote is a little broken too, but when you have to re-load you 
 need to swing your 
  Wii-mote like crazy and still keep it on the screen, same thing with the counter attacks.
  Aside 
 from those issues the controls works just fine.
  
  --MUSIC --
  
  I can't agree with Gamespot on this one, the music is something you won't really notice here but 
 when you do there's nothing wrong with it.
  
  --VOICES --
  
  Voices are all fine too, my only complain here is Rebecca Chambers, her voice is so girlie, and 
 yes I know she's a girl, but it's a little too high according to me (and some of my friends) .
 
  
  --JAXXOS SCORE --
  
  Over-all, this game is a great game for Resident evil fans and shot em' up fans. If you haven't 
 played the old Resident evil games I recommend you do so since this game is for nostalgic moments.
 
  I give this game a 9 out of 10.
  
  Hope you enjoyed my first review, later gamers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wysl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 4:50 am PT
Review:  I think this game can be good therapy for work stress and what nots. Shooting zombies and monsters 
 in RE: UC is really fun and the satisfaction gained from this does appeal to 'baser' instincts. 
 Needless to say, playing co-op on the big screen is a blast, especially with the Wii Zapper. However, 
 other than mindless fun, I would say that there are certain weaknesses in the game that takes some 
 of that fun away. Action cutscenes require very quick and accurate user-inputs, even on Easy setting. 
 This has caused more than a few frustrated moments, and this takes some of the gameplay momentum 
 away. Some of the Sub-Chapters require a solid A grading to be unlocked. At the start, only Main 
 Chapters can be played in co-op mode - we need to beat all Main and Sub-Chapters in order to play 
 co-op throughout. All said, the game can do with a couple more Chapters as well! Can's wait for 
 RE: UC2.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Im_bettr_than_u
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 11:34 pm PT
Review:  i thought of this game to be of what some how the same as RE 4 & 5 but no... its much like an arcade 
 game too much...
  the standard arcade came u can go and play at bowling allies and well arcade places. but all on 
 wii where u can move the shooter.. thingy which is fun. 
  the graphics r good with dried up blood smeered all over the walls and walking zombies wanting 
 to eat u.. wats not to like?
  ok levels but a tip.. never play solo its just u and its very difficult like reloading and stuff.. 
 if u want to play.. have a good old fellow zombie slayer (ur friend or bro or sis) to aid ur conquest 
 agenced umbrella. 
  i think the close combat system is a bit slow and not realistic.. the knife u just swing and so 
 theres no way u can lose in it.. (unless ur so lazy or tired that u cant move ur arm) and swinging 
 it to kick a zombie.. not what i hoped, i hoped for a bit of neck snapping like on the movie!. 
 
  yes another thing, the zombies die when u just shoot him!.. anywhere, arm legs, nads u name it.. 
 not like hitting them in the head like on the movie, i wanna relive it!..
  in conclusion.. good game for co-op play so make me proud and kill some zombies! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FoxyAreku
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 18, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Where should I begin?
  RE: UC is a game made to re-cap all the story elements of Resident Evil Zero, One, and Three with 
 a couple extra scenarios thrown in to satisfy people who already played the original games. While 
 it succeeds in that aspect more or less, it fails on so many other ways.
  First off, parts of the story were so drastically changed and butchered that it may leave newbies 
 with more questions then answers. The biggest story flaw was that of the Resident Evil 3 portion. 
 This entire portion was taken directly from Resident Evil: Outbreak without a single change to 
 the backgrounds or anything, which begs the question, why didn't they just take Nemesis out and 
 make Kevin and Alyssa the stars of that scenario? It would of made alot more sense if they had.
 
  Second off, unless your playing co-op with a friend the game becomes incredibly boring very quickly. 
 You will constantly be shooting through wave after wave of zombies and monsters that all look almost 
 exactly the same. 
  Third is that every single character in the game plays exactly like everyone else. How is that 
 18 year old Rebecca plays the exact same as all-powerful Wesker? They even have the same health 
 amount! The only difference between characters is the counter attack, but all the counter attacks 
 have the exact same result, an instant kill on one zombie.
  And finally, the game forces you to get an A-ranking on some missions in order to unlock certain 
 side stories. I have always hated games that forced you to get a good score to advance the plot... that 
 one might just be me though.
  So, in conclusion, unless you REALLY like on-rail shooters, or you are too lazy to go find the 
 original games on eBay, then this game is not worth buying. Youtube the cutscenes and you'll be 
 fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biller88
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  First off, if you are a fan of the Resident Evil series, then this is a game you are sure to like. 
 It brings back some of the older characters and settings and lets you re-live some of the more 
 frightening moments again.
  However, once you leave the allure of another Resident Evil game behind you, you start to see some 
 of the flaws to the game.
  Some games have that certain "it" moment, when you know you made the right choice even though at 
 first it didn't seem like it. Something like "No More Heroes". But Resident Evil: UC just never 
 really picks up. The gameplay is extremely repetitive (I suppose to be expected of a track-shooter) 
 and just never really makes you want to keep playing. Some of the boss fights are exciting, but 
 again the lack of variety really hampers the fun.
  As mentioned above, I've had a lot of fun with the game, there is just not enough to make me want 
 to keep playing, and the weapon variety is a little disappointing. If you are a Resident Evil fan, 
 get it. But if you are a newcomer to the series, there may be a better starting point for you, 
 say Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition.
  Overall, I'll give Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles a 6.5. It was a really good attempt, and 
 a really unique try to bring the Wii a shooter that utilizes it's unique controls, but it just 
 narrowly misses. Look for the combo bundle of House of the Dead 2 and 3 when it releases next month. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vengeance00
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 7, 2008 5:16 am PT
Review:  The RE series is one of my favs but this didn't help the series much. The game play is good and 
 the learning curve is pretty level, but the way it tells the story of the other games and how it 
 attempts to bridge the series all together fails greatly. The game alone would of been good if 
 it was just an entirely separate story from the "main four" as I like to call it. 
  
  This game is the spiritual successor of the survivor series and inherits its disappointment curse 
 that I have felt with both the ones previously. Though the game play, controls and graphics are 
 good for a Wii game the story lets the whole thing down. For each of the games there are 3 levels 
 each with two for only original part of the game. Then there is the 3 bonus levels which you get 
 if you achieve a certain piece of evidence in the levels of that section, these feel really tagged 
 on and don't explain much about the back story of the three games (0,1 and 3 if your wondering) . 
 These acts as they are called don't even go through the whole of each game for example RE1 saga 
 goes by the following.
  
  Act 1: walk around the mansion aimlessly
  Act 2: walk around outside aimlessly
  Act 3: defeat tyrant twice.
  
  Each of these are around 
 10 minutes long when passed first time, however the random zombie bite may cause you to lose and 
 thus try again from the half way check point or the not mentioned check point where you'll just 
 start the game like just before fighting tyrant the second time of half way through a group of 
 zombies. You also get a choice of characters for most of the levels however this makes no difference 
 to the game play apart from you'll hear more of the other character talking who seems to be on 
 your back as you never see them any where in the actual level, for all you know you could be a 
 walking carrot.
  
  Overall the game is good if you ignore the story tie ins as if you like resi 0,1,2 and 3 you'll 
 not find these games as they once were, 2 was completely ignored, 3 is completely messed up and 
 0 and 1 are cut down too much to make what newcomers will find is the grand canyons of plot holes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ropeyone
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles is one of the best first person shooter games for the Wii. If 
 you were a fan of Resident Evil, this is your game. This game also will bring back memories from 
 Sega's House of the Dead series. Capcom actually made more sales from the Wii. The shooting is 
 easy to do on this game. The Wii Zapper (sold seperately from in store) can help you on getting 
 more critical shots (headshots on the zombies) . It makes you feel like that you are also in the 
 middle of the game shooting many enemies. This game revolves around the events before Resident 
 Evil 4. You will play scenerios starting from Resident Evil 0 to Resident Evil 3. Plus, you will 
 also play a new chapter after these events, which concludes on the ending of Umbrella. Basically, 
 there are some downfalls for this game. First, there are more scenerios to the story that they 
 are missing out from the previous Resident Evils like Resident Evil 2 with Claire Redfield and 
 Leon Kennedy, even though you can play Ada and Hunk's scenerio when you unlock it on certain condition. 
 The Resident Evil: Code Veronica was also left out as well. Some of the stories from those games 
 does lead to certain events throughout in the other games of the series. The Wii Zapper is also 
 a help, since your arm will get tired or it shakes when you use the Wii Remote itself. I had to 
 beat the game that way. Even though on those certain downfalls, this game is a must buy if you 
 are a fan of first person shooters and Resident Evil. The controls are easy and if you have a Wii, 
 you must buy this game. Resident Evil: The Umbrella Chronicles is Capcom's big hit on the Wii for 
 Capcom's best first person shooters! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheese_Wow
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Well, here it is (A3trix) , my review of RE: UC. This game makes for one hell of an overview of the 
 series. The game takes place during Resident evil: 0 zero, Resident evil 1, Resident evil 3: Nemesis, 
 and Sometime between Resident evil 3 and 4. For some reason they skipped RE2, or mabey it was 1 
 of 3 chapters in part 3 and they just merged RE2 and 3 together...
  
  Graphics 4/5: good for a wii game, not great, but at least the blood has some particle effect. 
 The dark feel to it is great, but at sometimes it can get a little blocky.
  
  Gameplay 4/5: Taking on the role of the House of the dead, on rail shooter style, this game manages 
 to pull it off. Although using the wii mote isn't anything compared to using a lightgun at the 
 arcade, but it still makes for a great, pick up and play, blast some heads, zombie hunter game. 
 You can use a knife for close combat, which is really only used for scraping leeches and spiders 
 off of you. If you time it right, you can fend off a zombie with the knife instead of using the 
 action button, but it won't kill them. Anyway this game has 4 parts to it, each part having 3 chapters. 
 Some of the chapters have single player only side missions that take about as long as 1 chapter, 
 and they provide the background story of what some characters were doing while the main story line 
 progresses.
  
  Storyline 4/5: A recap of RE 0, 1, 2,3 and a story of what happens after RE3. i won't give any 
 spoilers but i'll tell you this ----------------not really much of a  
 the 4th part is labeled "Umbrellas End" 
  There are also some sidemissions in which you follow the path of 1 character to find out how they 
 came to be in that situation, like Wesker in the mansion. The chapters take about 15 - 20 min. 
 and can be challenging at times, overall Same storyline, with a bit extra.
  
  Controls 4/5: Now we all know this is an on rail shooter, but it does get kinda nerve racking when 
 you know there is a zombie behind you and you cant turn around and kill them. Though you do get 
 "slight" control of the camera angle, its just easier to not use it at some times. You can reload 
 by shaking the controler, which, if you uncoordinated, should through you off aim. On the other 
 hand if you are used to shooting games, and the wii pointer, you'll have no problems landing Critical 
 hits with the first bullet of the clip. Holding down the A button will allow you to use the knife 
 by flicking the controller in a direction, which can be useful for fending off lovestruck zombies 
 that wanna kiss you on the neck XD. Holding down A and pressing B will throw grenades, which come 
 in handy for large groups, boss monsters, and Crimson heads. There is an option for the zapper, 
 but i haven't bothered to try this yet.
  
  Multiplayer4/5: There are a total of 12 multiplayer chapters. Having a buddy brings some ease when 
 playing at higher difficulties, but the real challenge is having to press the Action button durring 
 cutsceans in which both players must land the combo. If one person misses, both die. Multiplayer 
 can also bring strategy to the fray, for example, when dealing with leeches and zombies, one person 
 will use the knife and the other will gun down the zombies. Or one person weilds a shotgun and 
 one person weilds a submachine gun, allowing quick work of large mobs. Anyway, this game is a great 
 multiplayer experience and should be played with one other person at least once in the disks lifetime.... if 
 not, dual weilding is always fun! :)
  
  Replay value 5/5: Since there are ALOT of files to be found, and some parts of the chapters can 
 have multipule routes, you'll have to play through some a few times to find all of the files, and 
 experience the full level. You'll also find youself replaying the first few levels to up that C 
 grade to an S and get yourself some weapon customization points. Personally i've beaten the game, 
 but only found 2/5ths of the files, because they can be hidden in ANYTHING that is breakable. Also 
 i still need to find out how to unlock the last 2 single player missions..... arrrgghhh!!!
  
  Overall, this game is a MUST HAVE for any resident evil fan. Not only is it a great recap of 
 the series, but if you buy this game and RE4: wii, thats more of a chance that the wii will see 
 RE5!!!! Anyway for right now RE: UC gets a 8.1/10
  
  [] === [] =======  Reviewed by none other than Sun Assassins!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  On-rails shooter its not a very popular genre, only a few games like the old virtua cop series 
 on the saturn and the time crisis series on the playstation consoles have made a stand in this 
 genre. Resident evil was originaly a game where you controlled a character in a scenario and than 
 you move to another scenario and controll your characters there, most of this scenarios didn't 
 move with the player, they were just static. If I'm not wrong (sorry if I am) only in Resident 
 evil 3 some scenarios followed the player on his movement. After 3 chapters on the Resident evil 
 franchise, capcom decided to take a break from this formula and launched Resident Evil: Survivor 
 on the market, this game was an on-rails shooter set in the world of Resident evil. The game got 
 well known probably not because it was a great game, since it was a poor game, but because it wears 
 the name of the Resident evil franchise. Later on capcom took resident evil to a different way 
 with the shoulder camera in resident evil 4, this was a great idea and the game its for me the 
 best resident evil because with this camera we have much more action.
  The idea looked cool... Kill all that zombies in a first person perspective could be a lot of fun 
 and you were closer to them so you could watch some zombies really close.
  Two other on-rails games from resident evil franchise were released on the PS2 without much success.
 
  Capcom saw in the Wii the opportunity to make a new on-rails shooter because of the innovative 
 wii controls that can easily be used as a light-gun, did this title got better than the others?
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  In The Umbrella Chronicles you'll be visiting a lot of places from Resident evil 0, the original 
 Resident evil and Resident evil 3: Nemesis, it will be nice to look again at this places once again, 
 but now they are better detailed but with the same old creepy look. 
  There are some bad textures here and there but the game has much detail and captures the essence 
 of the resident evil franchise into this on-rails shooter.
  The zombies, dogs, monsters and other old friends look better than ever in this resident evil, 
 all the areas in the game have the ambience of resident evil and obviously the good detailed "bad 
 guys" give it a good additional look.
  8.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Its an on-rails shooter, so you know how the gameplay is right? not really... Despite the easy 
 to pick controls that you are already expecting from an on-rails shooter with a light-gun there 
 are some new features added into this one. Its good to see that when they want, people can have 
 some good ideias in a genre that as been played the same way a long time ago, its not a revolutionary 
 gameplay but certainly saves Unbrella chronicles from being just another on-rails shooter with 
 infinit pistol bullets and an ocasional machinegun to kill lots of bad guys.
  Using the nunchuck you can look around a little so you doesn't look like u really have to see that 
 angle in that room at that time, you can also pick up objects from the ground, sometimes you need 
 to break something to see some items.
  You start unbrella chronicles with a standart pistol with unlimited ammo, but this weapon obviously 
 gets almost useless with the time, you can pick up other weapons with limited ammo such as SMGs, 
 shotguns... that kind of stuff. This weapons are better than the unlimited pistol but have limited 
 bullets so you better use them wisely, at the course of the game you'll earn stars, your weapons 
 can be upgraded with stars to have more bullets in the cartdrige, more damage etc.
  The enemies in Umbrella chronicles have what we call a weak point, if you shoot this weak point 
 it results on a one shot kill, this makes you try to not waste all the bullets at a time in one 
 single enemy, unfortunetly even if you play 40 hours straight you will probably not be able to 
 perform 100x straight one-hit-kills because you need luck to shoot at the weak point since its 
 a really small one.
  With some changes it gets better than all the other on-rails shooters but its still pretty limited 
 and the weak point need more work.
  7.
  
  Sound:
  
  All the soundeffects are there and sound good, but the soundtracks are just bad and really don't 
 fit the action at all, sometimes nothing is happening and there is a stressed music in the background, 
 and othertimes theres a lot of action and a very calm music, also doesn't fit the Resident evil 
 ambient at all, this is the worst point about this game.
  5.
  
  Value:
  
  An on-rails shooter lasts something like 1 hour to get through all the game some a little more 
 and some a little less than that, but Umbrella Chronicles can last for an awsome record of 5 hours 
 at least, this is an impressive achievement in this genre. Also you'll want to replay the game 
 to get all the files with a lot of information about the background story of the Resident Evil 
 series.
  The game does not present a new story at all, it just goes through the events of resident evil 
 0, resident evil and resident evil 3: nemesis, the game also recreates some of the best moments 
 from that titles, I was just sad because Resident Evil 4 was left out of this, its my favorite 
 resident evil.
  8.
  
  Overall:
  
  Resident evil fans will be pleased with the game, maybe a rental for the ones who don't care about 
 resident evil or dont like on-rail shooters will do but its a game I easily recomend if you have 
 a Wii and like resident evil, even if you think on-rail shooters sucks theres a lot of information 
 about the series in this title. I would give this game a 7 because of the notes I atributed to 
 each category but since I think the game does a lot for the genre and its a pretty interesting 
 title I'm giving it an 8. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordMaceX
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Umbrella Chronicles plays through the known life cycle of the Umbrella Corporation. This begins 
 with Resident Evil 0 and continues through 1, 3, and ends with missions that we previously didn't 
 know about. The Umbrella Corporation has been the evil villain behind almost all the Resident Evil 
 games throughout the series. Not only does the game follow the Umbrella from the first known events 
 but it also follows Wesker very closely and expends on his behind the scenes storyline.
  
  Wesker is a mercenary who was once a member of the elite group S. T. A. R. S. He secretly worked for 
 Umbrella but with only his own goals in mind always planning for his future. Through this game 
 you play as many heros of the Resident Evil games such as Chris, Jill, Rebecca, and many more. 
 You also get to play additional missions as other side characters such as Wesker, Ada, and ever 
 "Mr. Death" himself Hunk.
  
  The first thing that interested me about the game is how rare a good rail shooter is let alone 
 one on a console. After being able to extensively play the game I am very impressed with the gameplay 
 and quite possible might be my favorite rail shooter ever. Obviously shooting is quite simple point 
 and click with the wiimote or wiizaper to blast your enemies. Also you can use grenades and have 
 a large variety of guns such as grenade launchers, shotguns, machine guns, magnums, and rocket 
 launchers at your disposal to fry your enemies. This allows a large variety of guns to use for 
 different situations.
  
  One less useful weapon you get is the knife, when normally fighting you rarely get a chance to 
 use it efficiently unless you have amazing reflexes it is hard to time a good knife hit on zombies. 
 When you fight bats, birds, bugs, leaches, or other small enemies though the knife will either 
 kill them before they can hit you or kill them while taking reduced damage from there hit.
  
  The big problem I saw with Umbrella Chronicles is that it doesn't include Resident Evil 2 and 
 Code Veronica. It also didn't include Resident Evil 4 but that game wasn't very related to the 
 Umbrella Corporation so it is understandable. These gaps in the storyline not only would have added 
 some more good missions but would make the story a lot more complete. Although this is annoying 
 the game still is tons of fun and the co-op is even more fun. Graphically it looks like just about 
 any Resident Evil no ground breaking graphics that make you stand in awe yet they are plenty good 
 and keep you very well entertained as you play through the game.
  
  The soundtrack of Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles doesn't really exist during the missions there 
 is no music and you are almost always doing missions. The sound effects for all of the monsters, 
 bosses, guns, and events you experience while playing on the other hand were good quality. I would 
 rate Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles a 8.9 out of 10 for being a very fun game and a blast to 
 play with a partner. Although it is a rail shooter a very odd and rare genre on consoles I think 
 it was very well done and I suggest anyone interested in it to try it out for yourself you will 
 enjoy it.
  
  This review will show up as a 9.0 due to Gamespot unfortunately not allowing a 8.9 to be selected. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dyna-Storm
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  No doubt that Resident Evil Umbrella Chronicles is the most awaited game by Resident Evil fans 
 for 2007. As a long-time fan myself, I have been waiting to play this game ever since I gotten 
 my Nintendo Wii. The end result however is an average light gun rail shooter that has rooms for 
 improvement.
  
  The overall presentation of Umbrella Chronicles is pretty good with the exceptional of a few setbacks. 
 First of all, the music could really use some serious change. For a light gun shooter, using back 
 the old tunes from the previous games just doesn't really fit in, nor does it give any form of 
 nostalgia feelings. 
  
  Frame rate is another problem I see in Umbrella Chronicles. For most of the missions, the frame 
 rate is pretty much solid, but "The Fall of Umbrella Corp" mission literally tears it apart. Dipping 
 below 30, aiming for critical shots can be tedious.
  
  Aside from that, there are tons of things to be unlocked here, ranging from items to weapons and 
 documents which helps to fill in the missing gap of the Resident Evil storyline. I just wished 
 that Capcom had added more extras such as never seen before videos or dialogs. That could help 
 to increase the replay value of the game.
  
  Overall it is a decent game with some rough edges here and there. If you are a fan of the series, 
 Umbrella Chronicles will probably satisfy your needs for blood thirsty zombies. For others, a rental 
 would probably be a better choice. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: St_muscat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  When I first brought this game I had never played any RE game before it (excluding RE:4) , so for 
 me the story the story, yes a story in a light gun game and yes while it is very brief it still 
 summarizes the main points of each RE 0, 1, 3 (I think) and a new chapter telling you how Umbrella 
 fell.
  
  There are 12 main levels, each going for 10-15 mins each, 1 or 2 can take even 15-20 mins each. 
 Plus 12 side missions which take about 5-10 mins each, although they do reuse the same levels of 
 the main game, with the exception of a few new rooms which you will see. In some of these main 
 missions they also have multiple paths, meaning there is a new reason to replay the level, other 
 than trying to get an S ranking, but these paths are only usually about a min long before they 
 come to together again. Speaking of S rankings you are also graded at the end of a stage in terms 
 of how fast you finished, Emmys killed, critical hits (1 hit kills) , objects destroyed and files 
 found. Files can be found during the game by shooting objects, these files contain side mission 
 and facts about the each RE episode. 
  
  The game also features (I think) 24 weapons which can all be updated, although not as much as in 
 RE:4. The Graphics, although stated by many reviews say the game looks 1 step behind RE:4, but 
 I think it's actually looks 1 step above RE:4, the textures are cleaner and the character animation 
 is more fluent and the overall game looks great, even if it looks like an over clocked GC game.
 
  
  The controls are great, shooting down zombies is really easy, getting critical hits isn't thoug 
 as they are a bit random, but with some practice you while be blowing of zombies heads like their 
 is no tomorrow. 
  
  The game also has over a dozen boss battles (including the side mission ones) and while they are 
 as simple as shot the enemy in the head or its weak spot or in some cases just shot the boss anywhere, 
 they are still very fun and enjoyable and for fans it's nice to face off against old foes in a 
 new way sometimes. 
  
  The overall game is very fun and if you are a RE fan, Light gun fan or both you are going to love 
 this game because of its great controls, great graphics, weapon verity, huge amount of content 
 and the good old standby know as co-op play which is amazing fun with a friend, like with all good 
 rails shooters. My only complaint with the game is that sometimes the game is a bit to slow, what 
 I mean by this is that it will sometimes take like 10 secs to go around a corner and while it's 
 ok it is kind of a drag a is as much as I like Light Gun games it kinda sucks that I can only really 
 play a game like this for about 1 to 1.5 hours in one sitting before it gets a bit old. So imo 
 it's best to be play in short bursts, like say about 1 hour at a time, but hey I have been playing 
 about an hour a day of it for 3 weeks and it's still a blast. But apart from that get this game, 
 NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMario_46
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great story  Is more atmospheric and longer than most on-rails shooters
  
  The Bad: Awful soundtrack  Can get repetitive at times
  
  
  
 
  
  Introduction:
  
  
  
  Resident 
 evil is probably one of the biggest and most successful gaming series that was born in the playstation 
 days back in 1998, but the series has really made a name for itself on the Nintendo gamecube, the 
 console that had all the main Resident Evil games, from Resident evil 0 to what's considered the 
 best in the series (and maybe the best of all time) Resident Evil 4. 
  
  However Capcom announced that the fith chapter in the main series (Resident evil 5) will not be 
 coming to the Wii, but instead Nintendo users would get a brand new game called Umbrella Chronicles, 
 but this is not the usual action adventure game we were all expecting, instead is an on rails shooters 
 that re tells the first 3 episodes of the franchise including brand new secrets that were never 
 told in the original games. And while this game can get repetitive at times, it delivers a solid 
 RE experience and it's a fun ride overall. 
  
  
  
  
  Presentation: 
 8/10 
  
  
  
  As soon 
 as you put the game disc on the wii you'll notice that this is a RE game, because the first thing 
 you'll hear in the menus is the scary voice that appears in all Resident Evil games. Other than 
 that the menus are well presented in the classic dark tone of the series, they are easy to navigate 
 and good looking. 
  
  The pre rendered cutscenes look great, but the character models look a little plastic and don't 
 show many emotions. The over-the-top voice acting from the first few games is also present here. 
 Overall a great presentation that could be a little better.
  
  
  
  
  Story 
 & Characters: 9/10 
  
  
  Pure 
 Resident Evil fan service. The story of the game tells the fall of the Umbrella Corporation, going 
 back to places first seen in Resident Evil 0, Resident Evil and Resident evil 3: nemesis. There's 
 a total of four chapters divided in several missions. 
  
  The first chapter is called Train Derailment, where you'll play as Rebecca Chambers and Billy Coen 
 from RE0. Chapter two is called Mansion Incident and the playable characters are Jill Valentine 
 and Chris Redfield, takes place during the first RE. The third chapter is called Racoon's Destruction 
 and it takes place during the outbreak where the zombies reach the city leaving it in ruins. The 
 final chapter is called Umbrella's end, takes place a year before the events of Resident Evil 4. 
 
  
  The story is narrated by Albert Wesker, a key character to the whole series. And you'll also find 
 out a lot more about Umbrella's downfall and his role in the famous incident. Not only that but 
 during gameplay, the player can unlock new documents to read and learn more about the whole story. 
 
  
  Overall the story is great and it shouldn't be missed by RE addicts because it uncovers many secrets.
 
  
  
  
  
  Gameplay: 7/10 
  
  
 
  
  Umbrella Chronicles is an on-rails shooter, the player will move on a linear path moving the aiming 
 reticle and using the B to shoot all the enemies, which includes Zombies, bats, giant scorpions 
 and several other ugly creatures that make Resident Evil what it is. But the boss battles are not 
 as memorable as before, they play the same as killing a normal enemy, so they could've been a lot 
 better.
  
  You occasionally get to choose between two different paths but other than that the gameplay is 
 pretty linear and awfully repetitive at times, so the key to enjoy this game is playing it in short 
 burst because otherwise you'll get bored with it pretty quickly. Not that the game isn't fun because 
 it is better than any other console on-rails shooter on the market right now, and it's deeper than 
 others, but it's not as addictive as, say, Link's Crossbow Training. 
  
  Before the gameplay begins you get to choose between a different set of weapons if you've unlocked 
 them that is-. And there's plenty of variety there, your normal gun will have infinite ammo and 
 it's good with normal enemies but get's useless after a few levels, you'll also get shotguns, rocket 
 launchers, machine guns, etc. The key to beat the game is saving ammo, because later bosses can 
 get frustrating if you just fight them with a normal gun. The ability to upgrade the weapons is 
 also back from RE4. 
  
  Another thing that's back from RE4 are the button mashing cutscenes, where you'll have to press 
 a button (or move the wiimote) to avoid getting killed. For close-quarter combat you get a knife 
 used by pressing the A button and swinging the wii-remote and if the enemy gets too close just 
 shake the wiimote to hit him with the special melee attack. There's also a co op mode here so you 
 can enjoy blasting a zombie's head off with a friend, this mode works well and adds replay value 
 to the game. 
  
  The evironments in the game are very diverse and take you from a destroyed city to a police station. 
 Every single level includes tons and tons of destructible objects that are also useful because 
 they can give you weapons, ammo or new files to read after finishing the chapter. After every level 
 you get a rank based on your performance, the thing is that to get good ranks you need to get a 
 lot of head shots (or critical hits) and because they are so random this can get almost impossible. 
 
  
  
  
  
  Visuals: 
 7/10 
  
  
  
  While 
 it captures the essence of Resident Evil with it's dark tone and gritty look, the game is a step 
 back from Resident Evil 4 and there are some ugly looking textures there and that is disappointing. 
 But this still is a decent looking game. The evironments look good and the characters animate well, 
 plus the bosses are still giant and ugly (in a good way) . All of this makes it a very atmospheric 
 game, more than all the other on rails shooters out there.
  
  
  
  
  Sound: 
 6/10 
  
  
  
  While 
 the graphics set the atmosphere the music just takes you back. The soundtrack is just plain awful 
 and it doesn't suit the game and that's a shame because it could be a lot better, the decent voice 
 acting saves this game's sound from complete mediocrity. 
  
  
  
  
  Performance: 
 8/10 
  
  
  
  While 
 the game doesn't have the smartest AI, the enemies are pretty decent and don't fall that easy, 
 plus they don't feel cheap like they do in other games of this type like Ghost Squad. 
  
  There are also little framerate drops and it's overall good. The loading times are a little long 
 but they don't show up very often. 
  
  
  
  
  Replay 
 Value: 7/10 
  
  
  
  It can 
 be beaten in about six hours and after that you can comeback to get better rankings, but overall 
 is a better rental.
  
  
  
  
  Fun Factor: 
 7/10 
  
  
  
  Is longer 
 and deeper than most on-rails shooters and that is definitely a plus, but it can get repetitive 
 at times, as i said, a fun game but in short burst, one that you'll enjoy more playing with a friend. 
 
  
  
  
  
  Appeal: 
 6/10 
  
  
  
  The words 
 "Resident Evil" will surely attract many people to this game, but as soon as they see the words 
 "On- rails shooter" they will immediately fall back. As we know this is not the most popular genre, 
 in fact i dare to say that is basically dying at this point and Capcom could've done better with 
 an action adventure game even if that would mean delaying it.
  
  
  
  
  Tilt: 
 8/10 
  
  
  
  As a 
 Resident evil fan i say that this game can be quite fun at times, but it can also be quite boring. 
 Is somewhat disappointing that Capcom released this game instead of a "real" RE , but this is better 
 than nothing at all and the story is quite good too. Definitely a game that you might consider 
 renting before buying it. 
  
  
  
  
  Overall: 
 
  
  
  
  7.3 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofwar596
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is hard at some points (mostly the bosses) . Like Tylos or something... his 2nd form is 
 really hard and broken and its hard to shoot the rocks comin down to hit you. And also sometimes 
 the "Counter attack" doesnt work. I shake hard and the zombie still bites me. And the Crimson heads 
 do alot more damage then what they did on the remake on the gamecube.... i dont even know why Crimsom 
 heads are in Zeros parts on weskers.... fells werid. I was playin this game with my bro one time 
 and we had to dodge the boulder and when we did everything it said (shake wiimote, press b, etc) 
 we still died. Theres alot of glitches in the game. Theres a funny one when you do a counter attack 
 with chris in the mansion mainroom, he stabs there head then kicks them and they go flying clear 
 up the stairs shaking really fast. My bro was laughin hard.... it was really funny. Besides all 
 of this........ Its still the best Arcade rail-shooting game out so far, and you sould buy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViralPlayer
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 29, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil: The Umbrella Chronicles is finally here. Since arcade games have been losing popularity, 
 there has been a steep decline on on-rail shooter games, but now Resident Evil: The Umbrella Chronicles 
 is looking to revive the genre thanks to the Wii's point-and-shoot controls. Can Resident Evil: 
 The Umbrella Chronicles really do it? Or will it die trying? 
  
  Story: The story takes place from Resident Evil 0, Resident Evil, Resident Evil 2, Resident Evil 
 3: Nemesis and a new chapter about the downfall of the Umbrella Corporation. It also reveals what 
 was Albert Wesker doing in the shadows.
  
  Gameplay: This Resident Evil game is an on-rail shooter. You basically use the Wii Remote to blast 
 shots after punishing shots. The players must follow a pre-set path, shooting enemies and picking 
 up optional weapons and health items, occasionally choosing between multiple paths. Certain button 
 commands must be followed in certain cutscenes to evade traps and enemy attacks like Resident Evil 
 4. However, you are unable to back up like in previous games, meaning you must kill every enemies 
 to move forward.
  
  Graphics: The graphics looks good, but it looks bland in comparison to even Resident Evil 4.
 
  
  Sound: The sounds is pretty neat. From gun blasting and reloading, you can actually feel like you're 
 using the weapons in real life.
  
  Overall: With multiple chapters, side missions, and files to collect, this will keep die-hard Residnet 
 Evil fans plenty to do. This isn't the best game in the series, but can still be considered to 
 be a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombie_puke
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  I'm gonna be straight forward on this one- ITS GOOD. Hmm... we're gonna need to fill more space.... 
 OK. This is a combination of resident evil titles, packed into one meaty, T- virus filled package 
 with more zombies than you could poke a shotgun with. 
  
  The game progresses through the storyli8nes of Resident evil 0, 1 (the remake) and 3 and adds bonus 
 missions from different characters views- so you can discover what happened to wesker when he "died" 
 or how Rebecca got into the mansion in RE1 in the 1st place.
  
  Itts on the rails, you shoot with b, hack and slash with a- the controls are simple but its fun 
 and challenging- doesnt offer the same "holy hell- a zombie!" factor as others in the series and 
 it gets really hard later on... but thats what makes it great.
  
  BITE SIZE- We feast on a tasty zombie of a game
  
  Calories burned- Little
  Appeals to- Fans 
 of shooters
  Speed- Medium
  Scariness- Medium
  
  Better than- Ghost squad- 8.0
  Worse than- Resident Evil 4- 9.5
  
  Rating- GREAT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GonzoGuy
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 28, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  I Like: The wide variety of guns and monsters. The combat controls work well. The creepy ambiance 
 inherited from the old Resident Evil games.
  
  I Hate: Playing Simon Says: pressing random buttons to view an "action" cut-scene which cuts the 
 suspense and defaces an otherwise wonderfully intuitive control scheme.
  
  Resident Evil Umbrella Chronicles is the kind of game that should've come out with the launch of 
 the Wii. While up there in difficulty, your friends will be requesting this one at all your Wiiparties. 
 The controls work perfectly (well... almost perfectly: the programmers got lazy here and there) 
 for this kind of game and you'll find that anyone can play it, and have fun.
  
  When I first saw the control scheme for Nintendo's latest miracle machine, the first thing I thought 
 was that this system is going to be the greatest gift to shooter fans. And while Red Steel was 
 fun, I'm certainly glad I waited to see it on sale. I only ever really complained that the environments 
 were too vast for me to hunt down the one other player. I knew that an (on) rail (s) shooter would 
 be the best party game for the guys, and a few of the girls. I don't know why we had to wait a 
 year but finally getting this game gives me that feeling that my Wii is closer to being complete. 
 Like all it needs is a Burnout, a Katamri, a GTA, and a trapper keeper, then it will rule the world.
 
  
  If you plan on getting this game, let me first give you one piece of advice: before you even insert 
 the disc, google umbrella chronicles game saves and download a file of the game at 100% completion. 
 After you transfer this file from your computer (hey! you finally have a use for that SD card) 
 to your Wii, insert the disc and start a new game on one of the other empty save slots. Why? Well 
 you may very well be as against cheating as I am but you might also never finish every level of 
 this game with a perfect score on the hardest difficulty (I need my wife's help to get through 
 some of the later chapters in easy mode) unless you're the kind of person who spends hours at the 
 multiplex making people miss the opening credits to look at you blasting aliens. 
  
  Completing the game with highest awards and at highest difficulty is the only way to get unlimited 
 ammo. This may sound paltry but it will be more fun for your friends when they can come over and 
 play with any gun in the game on any chapter and not have to worry about ammo. This is a Resident 
 Evil game after all and you know how scarce ammo can be in that world. Just remember to arm your 
 friends with the relatively weak guns. This game gets real boring real quick if one player has 
 unlimited bazooka ammo.
  
  Even with the game save, I still recommend playing through from the beginning to have the fun of 
 collecting "new" weapons, files, and items in the strained environment the game is meant to be 
 played in. While fun, unlimited ammo on all guns dampens the suspense, takes away some of the challenge, 
 and washes out the experience of trying to plunk regular pistol shots into the zombies' weak points. 
 It may seem like little more than point and click but the shooting controls make this game a joy.
 
  
  I may just be easily amused. You may think that it shouldn't be too complicated to make a good 
 rail shooter for the Wii but the programmers threw in a few elements we've never had while wielding 
 the arcade light guns. Most of them add a lot to the experience but some are travesties of programming 
 that should've been forgotten after the first try. 
  
  One of the improvements afforded by the nunchuck connection is the ability to move the camera around 
 slightly which can help with collecting items, killing extra enemies, or just destroying the environment. 
 The chuck can also be set to reload your gun with a shake, letting you keep your gunbarrel trained 
 on the enemy. The default controls have you shaking the wiimote which will mess you up in a tight 
 spot but if you set the game as if you had a zapper the reload gets mapped to the chuck. Sounds 
 perfect doesn't it? It would be if it weren't for one stupid control scheme that just wont die.
 
  
  Rather than create an intuitive control scheme, it seems that lately, every programmer who is too 
 impatient or lazy to lay out something interesting and fun will just have the game flash random 
 buttons on the screen. If these buttons are pressed correctly, you deal damage and/or dodge and 
 get a cut scene of success. If they aren't, you take damage and get a cutscene of failure. On some 
 games I can ignore it but in Umbrella Chronicles, this bush league method does nothing more than 
 put road bumps in the action and/or break the suspense of what would otherwise be a very scary 
 moment.
  This one tedious control function which was carried over from Resident Evil 4, which got it from 
 God of War, which borrowed it from Shenmue seems to have risen from the 80s arcade graveyard and 
 is now haunting almost every new game I play. I am getting sick and tired of lazy programmers who 
 make gamers stop and play Simon Says especially since it always seems to happen at the most exciting 
 and/or cinematic moments. It becomes the biggest nuisance when you're playing 2 player and you 
 both have to press different button configurations at the same time. Is there an industry name 
 for this travesty? I would like to call it lazy imbecile programmers should be shot or L. I. P. S. B. S.
 
  
  Really this has been going on since the arcade classic Dragon's Lair and it's about time it stopped. 
 We were forgiving with that one because it was the first time we played a video game that looked 
 like a cartoon (most other games back then had about 12 colors and looked like the kind of thing 
 you'd pay $5 for on the Virtual Console; actually some of them are the games you can pay $5 for 
 on the VC) and the controls consisted of one stick and one button. But now (over 20 years of progress 
 later) that every game looks like a cartoon and your average controller has about 12 buttons & 
 a couple of sticks, I think we should expect more out of these programmers. They should also think 
 we deserve better controls than "press A quickly or DIE" considering we're putting their kids through 
 college. On a system with motion controls, this sort of contrived gimmick is absurdly unforgivable. 
 You may think I'm overreacting but these games aren't cheap you know and things like this make 
 me wonder sometimes if we put more thought into playing these games than they put into making them..
 
  
  Really Umbrella Chronicles isn't filled with these moments (but the boss battles are) and as irritating 
 as they are to me, you may not even notice them. Don't let it be the one thing that pushes you 
 away from the experience. You'd be gypping yourself out of a fun game. So you probably want to 
 know if it's worth it. It's a definite buy if you dig the rail shooters. It's a definite buy if 
 your friends want to play something a little more action packed than Warioware or Wii Sports. And 
 it's a definite buy if you dig the Resident Evil series but want to try something a little different 
 from the usual. I would only recommend skipping this game if you're lonely and don't have anyone 
 to play games with (in which case: you need to go out and make some friends, then buy this game) 
 or you detest that random button cut scene control scheme even more than I do. I can understand 
 that, in which case, avoid this game like a plague of zombies.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manny1105
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is very very addicting... kinda... well the story is very interesting, if you played the 
 other resident evil games then you should understand, the music is kinda creepy wich make you in 
 the mood to blast zombies in the head! the difficulty is kinda hard, im not that good at it.... the 
 gameplay is very interesting, sometimes during gameplay you can do something kinda like reaction 
 commands, they make an interacting scene where you might have to do something like shake the wii 
 controller, or press some buttons.... also you can change your weapons, thats also something sweet.
 
  
  now for my favorite part of this game is the multiplayer, first, you get more health on your screen, and 
 if you are not good at this game like me... then some help is useful, my brother is the MASTER at 
 this game...
  
  anyways... this games price would be worth 40$ or 30$, so buy this game, it`s good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZenTsu
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 6:08 am PT
Review:  I was unbelievably disappointed with this release, to start with having purchased 2 gun adapters 
 to play it with and neither of them actually working as designed. Followed up by unresponsive controls 
 when firing, little to no time to pick up bonuses which when combined with the ever so slow reaction 
 times from firing to the gun actually firing on screen make this possibly the worst shooter i have 
 ever played.
  
  The only good thing i can say it does have a similar resident evil feel to it, but not as intensive 
 as it could be.
  
  I am a big fan of the resident evil series, i even thought i could look past the flaws, but there 
 is just not enough in this game to make it worth the purchase.
  
  Avoid like the plague, unless you are the utmost die hard fan who has to have it, i thought i was 
 a die hard fan but this is def a miss for me. I would rent it play it and return. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 22, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great graphics, large variety of enemies, weapons, going back to previous RE games is 
 a great trip down memory lane
  
  The Bad: Even though there is a variety the core game play doesn't change much, a bit too difficult 
 in spots, way too short
  
  I was really excited about this game because it was the first of it's kind, for the Wii, to utilize 
 the Zapper (and any other 3rd party light gun attachments) to make you feel like you're really 
 shooting things. While we can't use the Zapper for RE4 this sure does work. While the game is on 
 rails and it moves around for you it makes a great cinematic experience and the difficulty stays 
 about the same throughout but can sometimes get a bit too tough in spots. The game has you playing 
 through important sections of previous RE games and it's a great blast to the past. For fans of 
 the series it's wonderful to go back and have certain scenes trigger memories. While the newer 
 RE games aren't present the others are and you can even play sections of the game that you couldn't 
 in the original such as playing as Albert Wesker in RE1. You can upgrade your weapons, shoot objects 
 in the game to find hidden files, and you are rated after each mission. There are even some sequences 
 where you have to press buttons during key sequences like in RE4. The boss fights are really fun 
 because each one is different and they all have their own way of having to be beat. The controls 
 are pretty simple and easy (especially on the Zapper) . There are plenty of enemy types, weapons 
 and so forth to use. I find that REUC is one of the best arcade style games on the Wii and shouldn't 
 be passed up. The game is short mind you and isn't worth nearly $50 but as soon as the price drops 
 it'll be a steal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haziqonfire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Resident evil umbrella chronicles is one of the few third party Wii games that has actually turned 
 out good. The final product is well put together, polished and overall a package of fan service 
 to all Resident evil fans.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay in RE: UC is very different from traditional RE games. In umbrella chronicles, you 
 cannot control your character. Rather, the game moves your character for you, but you control the 
 camera slightly and basically shooter whatever comes on the screen.
  
  The shooting aspects of umbrella chronicles work well, but their is some lag with the point when 
 taken off screen and brought back, but nothing big. This game isnt really about shooting everything 
 as much as you can, instead, it rewards you on shooting enemies in a specific spot to get that 
 precious 1 hit kill.
  
  I have played this game with both the Wii Zapper and Without it. I find that using the Zapper gives 
 me a steady hand with the reticule, however, some players might disagree. My advice is to try them 
 both out and pick the one you like. 
  
  The game also features a 2 player co-op mode, which, admittedly is very addictive and fun. 
  
 
  Sound:
  
  All im going to talk about is the music and voice acting. Id say i really liked the music in this. 
 It sucessfully creates that feeling of suspense and horror for the games theme. 
  
  As for the voice acting, its terrible. They could have improved it just like they did with Resident 
 Evil 4, but didnt.
  
  Graphics:
  
  This is probably one of the better looking games on the Wii, but thats not saying much. It shines 
 in some areas, but mostly it looks dull overall. Still, its not a bad thing, but it could be better. 
 Many of the cutscenes are taken from the gamecube remakes as well. The game runs smoothly though, 
 and without any hick-ups.
  
  Presentation:
  
  The overall presentation of the game is nice. Its clean yet still has that feeling of suspense. 
 The CGI is excellent as is the way its presented.
  
  Overall:
  
  Umbrella chronicles is a game that should be welcomed in any Wii owners library. Its a lengthy, 
 yet fun, arcade shooter. The fun really goes up if you have another player to play with in Co-Op 
 Mode. Also the replayability is great because you can always go back to playing old missions, some 
 of which have two different scenarios, thus finding unlockables. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etherealsyn
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 20, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Alright, I admit it, I am not as young as I use to be and my reflexes are getting a bit slower. 
 This game made me want to toss the controller out of the house and swear off video games forever. 
 Only once have I found a game so difficult that it was all but unplayable (Ninja Gaiden) . I understand 
 making a game a challenge and wanting to make the user "work for it". That is the definition of 
 Hard, Impossible, Nightmare. I am not into games that force you to replay level after level of 
 near impossible to kill enemies.. I am not a gamer who wants to struggle through a game and really 
 feel like I climbed Mount Everest blindfolded without any climbing gear. I am not the type of person 
 who spends days trying to move 1 foot in game just to say that I can. I treat games like movies, 
 something to be enjoyed and for the experience. I choose Easy, what I find is an Easy (Translate 
 Nightmare) . I Spent 40 minutes trying to slug my way past the first boss. After 20 attempts (I 
 counted) I took no more than 1/2 his energy bar away. Trying to hit the A button (to dodge) while 
 it was in the light gun (was made for this contraption???) not to mention shake (have they even 
 wielded the zapper attachment once?) Lets see, I got to the point of A) Turn off the WII or B) 
 Throw the controller (I haven't done that since I was in my early teens) !
  
  The graphics are good, the story is a rehash (what I have seen) of the earlier games (only without 
 much control) . I just don't understand games that have such a high difficulty. I thought the WII 
 was about having fun, not being pissed at your console! I would recommend this game only to the 
 most HARDCORE gamers out there. If you want a fun, casual game, look somewhere else. If you want 
 the hours long grueling (read NIGHTMARE Difficulty) of a game, this one will be right up your alley! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scara828
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Anyone hoping to see how Brad dies in HD will be disappointed, they really reduced the games we 
 all have played, but it fun anyway, the time you destroy the head of your first zombie you become 
 addict. Now we start the review:
  The Graphics are not something to be surprised, but they are not bad at all, you have the realism 
 you had on the Game cube, maybe a little bit sharper, its an 8.5 for me.
  The game play, its feel restricted, you just point and shoot, well maybe you use the knife a couple 
 of times, the environment its 75% destroyable, so you will have fun shooting at everything looking 
 for missing files, and the use of the wii-mote is pretty clever but it could be better, so it is 
 a 7.5.
  The story, well the fans already know how it is like, but any way, besides its a horror game, it 
 does not scare as its predecessors, its more an action game, in my opinion they screw up a bit, 
 but its somehow ok so I will give an 8.
  The sound feels just too real, the voice acting is not perfect but its pretty good, it deserves 
 a 9 in here
  The difficulty could feel pretty hard at first for newcomers, but when you played it a couple of 
 hours you feel it fine, and when you master the critical points its piece of cake. 7.5 in here
 
  The real problem in this game is that you can beat it in 10 hours. 
  In general this game is a must have for fans and if you are not, its pretty fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samus_rules
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  When I originally heard about this game coming out I nearly wet myself with joy. Capcom, Resident 
 evil, Light-gun game. All the makings of a fantastic game. And to be fair it did not disappoint. 
 The game had everything a classic zombie light-gun game needed. Dark corners, bags of atmosphere, 
 hundreds of enemies and an arsenal of weaponry so big you could start a small army (what a shame 
 we couldn't take more than one extra weapon) . Although at the start there were a few teething problems 
 with reloading, it didn't detract from the game overall. In the end though maybe some more storyline 
 could have been included to bridge the gap between resident evil 3 and 4. But thats the only bad 
 things I can say about it. The rest is fantastic and any light gun affictionadoes out there should 
 definitely pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobylim
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty good. Tho it might not be the game of the year, this game offers a lot of challenge. 
 Even on easy difficulty it can be somewhat difficult. Graphics are cool, gameplay is fun even without 
 the wii zapper. good multiplayer, lot of different guns witch are rally helpfull. One of the greatest 
 thing about this game is the way it explain a lot about the story. You learn things you never understood 
 before. You play as wesker, and you see how episode 0 and 1 are connected togheter. It is very 
 challenging to try to find every single objects or hidden files on every stage, and I think this 
 is what is fun about the game. Maybe sometime some boss fights can be very frustrating, once you 
 clear it, your gonna be soo happy and proud about it haha!
  Sound is repetitive maybe because of the amount of time you will hear the bullet noise, but in 
 the end, the music and voices are really cool.
  This is a game you should probablly rent first, but if you like challenge, you may want to buy 
 it just like I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavidRswii
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 14, 2008 12:34 am PT
Review:  Well it's finally here Resident evil the Umbrella Chronicles, lets begin with the story of this 
 game well this game includes the storys of Resident Evil 0, Resident Evil, Resient Evil 3, and a 
 new chapter where Chris and Jill visit a Umbrella Corporation in Russia. Well let me give a small 
 description of each but if you played the those games you should know what happens and if not I'll 
 explain. In Resident Evil 0 Rebecca Chambers lands in the Racoon forest where there have been accidents 
 of people dieing and Rebecca finds a train completley stopped... once shes in she finds a leech 
 and gets attaked by a Zombie, and Billy Colen (a convict) who was setenced to death helps her out 
 and they get through the train together. Now on to Resident Evil in this scenirio Jill, Chris, 
 and Wesker infultrate the mansion only to find nightmarish Zombies all over, while there Jill and 
 Chris run into Rebecca and Richard, and they find out what Umbrella has done. Resient Evil 3 here 
 Jill is in Racoon City surrounded by Zombies and right when she was gonna die a man named Carlos 
 comes in and eliminates them for her, thus they travel through the city together to escape only 
 to find that the city is going to be terminated. Now to the additional chapter in this chapter 
 Chris and Jill join a new team controlled by the goverment and they must infultrate a Umbrella 
 faility in Russia the reason they go there is because they have created a new Biological weapon 
 known as T. A. L. O. S.
  
  PRESENTATION: Filled to the brim with nostalgic moments and environments, with a moody interface, 
 solid FMV cutscenes, and a ton of voiceover from Albert Wesker. A bit bland at times though
  
  GRAPHICS: The character models are impressive and the backgrounds look good from a-far but cloose 
 up they look blurry, this game also runs in 480p.
  
  SOUND: Lots of VO, some spooky sound effects, and Resident Evil Musical score
  
  GAMEPLAY: Its 
 a good, fun, long railshooter theres not much to say but movements lack the smooth feel the Resident 
 Evil is known for
  
  LASTING APPEAL: Lots of things for long time fans, over 20 hours of non-stop playing, a good multi-player 
 co-op mode, new sidemissions to see what Wesker was up too during the events, andupgradable weapons. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: litchfieldbears
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 13, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Resident evil has been about shooting zombies and solving puzzles in your own time sort of thing. 
 Umbrella Chronicles brings some new life to the franchise yet doesn't quite deliver. It best playing 
 with your friends i found because your fighting over who gets the most kills and head shots and 
 items and so on. But can feel weird at the same time. In RE4, one shot of the shotgun would kill 
 an enemy. Try that in this game and they keep getting up for more. And when you do get a head shot, 
 its hard to keep the wii mote still, it isn't quite as satisfying. Blood should be pouring out. 
 The developers should of made the hot spot for a head shot just a touch larger. I don't think it 
 would've made the game any easier just a bit less frustrating. Being on the rails to has its good 
 and bad points. In one of the earlier levels I missed lots of items and zombies because my player 
 decided to run. It also ruins the element of surprise and adventure, because being on rails sort 
 of lets you predict whats going to happen by the way the camera moves. But on the other hand, being 
 on rails brings in that cool dodging system were you have to press or hold a number of buttons. 
 The boss battles are i think similar to the ones found in Zelda. Now with weak spots being plainly 
 obvious. Some boss battles though drag on a bit with your partner yelling "its not working" or 
 "its weak spot is its head". God. This isn't Yu Gi Oh. Stating the obvious so much isn't helpful. 
 
  Over all, RE Umbrella Chronicles is a good game best played co-op with a friend. Pick it up cheap 
 though. Spend your money on another full priced game like Super Mario or sumthin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NirdBerd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 3:44 am PT
Review:  I got this game on christmas day, and boy was I glad, I also got the zapper so I played on Train 
 Derailment with the zapper, and my comments on it are... Do NOT play it with the zapper, it just 
 feels uncomfortable with the nunchuk outside the zapper shell and the wiimote inside the shell, 
 there are some dodging scenes and reloading is a pain, you have more free movement when you are 
 not using the zapper, so please, wait for Ghost Squad and Medal of Honor Heroes 2 (excluding u 
 americans :P.. geting it all first : ( )
  
  yeah so just dont use the zapper for this
  
  Back on topic..
  ..
   yeah
  the idea of an on rails mode 
 is awesomeness, although this game is NOT scary at all, the gameplay and graphics are awesome enough 
 to enjoy on a big tv all by yourself, speaking of by yourself, there is co-operation mode, now 
 I did this with my brother, and I just used him as a decoy for spare grenades and ammo because 
 he sucked :p (but he was good at the dodging, lol.. strange) .. 2 player, in my opinion gives me/you 
 a higher chance of winning a level and possibly getting a better rank than you would on 1player.
 
  
  If you have 30 (or $50 w. e) and you don't know what to do with it, and you are a wii owner, umbrella 
 chronicles should be one of those games on your wishlist, and this game is worth playing until 
 you get A-S ranks on every level. Boss battles are also very fun, especially wesker's.
  
  Capcom need to make Umbrella chronicles 2 that takes us through RE:2 and 4, if it's possible.. it 
 would be awesome.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: major_cain
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  This really is a good installment in the Resident Evil industry. It offers a different way to actually 
 play the games that we all love, and it sometimes is a little more challenging then the original 
 games.
  It sort of does change the way we look at the original games, not quite as scary, but does keep 
 a lot of the same elements. In this one, you really do have to conserve ammo, other wise you will 
 really be put in a hard spot at times. You also now have actually aim at what your shooting at, 
 as before, you just had to point your character in the general direction on a zombie to shoot it, 
 now you actually have to point your weapon exactly where you want to hit them. Kind of like Resident 
 Evil 4, but still its not quite the same.
  This really is a must pick up for people that really do love the Resident Evil series and want 
 to relive them, but just in a slightly different way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: futuramafan101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Resident evil the umbrella chronicles was a fun game to play and really enjoyed it. It had all 
 of the resident evil games in from 1 to 3 but they was no RE2 which was disappointing but it would 
 have been better if they included RE2 and get to play Leon and Claire then it would have been better 
 and have all the series into one game but still great. You have choices from Rebecca Billy for 
 0 Chris Jill for 1 and Jill Carlos for 3 but you get to be Wesker to in his own story as well. 
 It had great choice of weapons to choose from and the graphics were great and the controls worked 
 great for the wii remorte with it been gun shooter game. If you are a fan of resident evil you 
 will enjoy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason_jalet
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 9, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  Personally, I was never too fond of ''on-rail shooters''. I like the ability to control my character 
 to the full. However, I got this game as a present for xmas 07 so I had no choice but to try it 
 out!
  
  Gameplay: because it is an on-rail shooter, gameplay is somewhat limited. However, the Wii remote 
 does a great job and aiming is very simple and effective. Controlling the game is easy and fun 
 to do. 4/5
  
  Storyline: this game will take you through several chapters of 3 previous RE games. If you are 
 familiar with these games then you will be happy to revisit the worlds in a different perspective. 
 4/5
  
  Graphics: while they are not the best on the Wii, the graphics are nothing to complain about: the 
 physics work well and characters/enemies look decent. Nothing to complain about here. 4/5
  
  Sound: the music is very 'arcarde'ish, but if you like that sort of game then you will love 
 it. Every level has a different theme and thats a good thing! 4/5
  
  Lenght: while I havent completed the game yet, I'm sure im approaching the end very quickly. It 
 wont take you long to complete on easy difficulty but normal and hard are much more challenging. 
 3/5
  
  Multiplayer: the best aspect of the game. I wouldnt advise this game unless you will play it with 
 somebody else. It feels somewhat pointless to play this game alone, its much more enjoyable to 
 play with a friend. 5/5
  
  Overall, I find the game decent. It's a good little adventure to take your mind off things and 
 it feels very different to all other Wii games out there. I would reccomend it to arcade fans and 
 to RE fans. However if you buy this game because you loved RE4, you'll be greatly dissapointed 
 as the game is not similar in anyway other than sharing the same name. It's a good multiplayer 
 game, and thats about it!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dobeslao
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil Chronicles feels much like training game, you dont discover any surprise, just point 
 and shot.
  
  Has a good hidden treasures revealing more info about Umbrela and has a special mission with Chris 
 and Jill together again in Alaska incursion to find the new B. O. W. from umbrella.
  
  Lo mejor que he visto en cuanto a juegos de dispararle a los zombies, mejor que sus predecesores 
 del PS1, el tipo de juego es como House of the Death pero la experiencia es inmersiva, los zombies 
 no sorprenden tanto como en los RE clasicos, de hecho es predecible en que parte de la pantalla 
 van a salir, hay algunas secuencias bastante rapidas que requieren precision.
  
  El juego se siente que dura poco, porque solo son tres episodios clasicos de RE ms un bonus y 
 algunas misiones, pero en realidad el juego es por un poco ms de 7 horas en una corrida normal. 
 La verdad es que aun quedamos con ganas de matar ms zombies, es como para que pudieramos limpiar 
 la ciudad de Reccon con nuestras propias manos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rockmanneo12
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 5:40 am PT
Review:  Face it, not too many people were happy to see a Resident Evil game drop the classic methods for 
 a rail shooter base built on the wii. No one could stomach the idea but come on people. It's everything 
 but horrible. It's absolutely addictive to play this with friends to see if you can continue to 
 unlock goodies. I for one just got the wii zapper to play the game through the game with a different 
 edge. This game is a great game to have for the wii. And for those who love the Umbrella story 
 as much as I do, you'll love the new story line's for what happened to Whesker at the end of Resident 
 Evil one or how Rebecca got to the Mansion after Resident Evil Zero. Not to mention a chance to 
 play as HUNK again since Resident Evil 2?!?!?
  
  Parent's should teach their kids to kill zombies and get them this game. ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrSoda
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  On many of the reviews I've seen for this game I think they gave it a score a bit too low. This 
 game is not a rip-off of House of the dead as some people may think, so just get that out of your 
 system. But here is a great shooter that is even better when you play with a friend.
  One thing about playing this game alone that you should know is that it gets pretty difficult. 
 But with a friend it's not as hard. If you were a fan of the series you will probably enjoy this 
 game, but the downfalls that I see here is that they don't use the voices from the remake or Zero 
 but the voices do fit well though.
  One of the complaints that I have about the on-rails motion is that you have a very limited amount 
 of time to pick up items, even though most of the time your given plenty of time, there are segments 
 when you only have a second to pick up some of the files. One of the things that some people hate 
 about it is that it has those cinematic moments from RE4 where you have a limited time to push 
 one or two buttons or push one button repeatedly, but all you have to do is expect the moment and 
 be ready. They add a little bit of fright but when you get the buttons right, well I'l let you 
 find that out.
  Now one thing that you may be worried about is length, but here is the surprising thing about it, 
 it's a pretty lengthy game. On my copy I already have over 30 hours clocked in on this game and 
 it's still fun. With the Zapper, some people hate it, personally I don't, I enjoyed using it, I 
 just prefer to use the machine gun when I use the Zapper though. Just be aware that if you buy 
 the Zapper for this, some Zappers have crappy triggers and some don't.
  Now then, the visuals on this game are in my opinion pretty good, some people may say it's just 
 GC visuals but they are dead wrong. The GC could only pre-render these environments, but here they 
 are presented in real time and look better, and on an HDTV this game looks really sharp and just 
 plain out great. Just like RE4, this game is presented in widescreen so if you have an SDTV your 
 going to see the black bars, but don't worry, they're the small bars.
  
  Story:8
  Visuals:9
  Gameplay:9
  Overall:8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chadmorales
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game. If you liked house of the dead then give this one a try. It feels like 
 you are playing an arcade game, in your own house. The graphics are good. I used a TV tray to help 
 steady my weapon and it really helped my accuracy. This game is just shoot em up fun, so don't 
 expect much more. Do yourself a favor and try it. Me and a friend had hours of fun killing zombies, 
 and other monsters. I like the game just fine with the Wii remote; the nunchek is necessary. So 
 don't feel like you have to have the zapper. I bought this game for 30 bucks at gamestop, brand 
 new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toxicsludge56
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil Umbrella Chronicles is very different to any other Resident Evil game, as it is an 
 on rail shooter. Capcom obviously decided to take advantage of the wii remote and the turn out 
 is great. 
  
  Firstly, i think the graphics are good, the zombies look 'realistic' and the characters look nice 
 too. The added touches such as bullet holes in the walls add a nice touch, so i think the graphics 
 are pretty good.
  
  Their is a wide selection of different weapons, including rocket launchers and grenade launchers, 
 magnums, various handguns (with unlimited ammunition) , shotguns and sub-machineguns. Also at the 
 start of each level youi will start with around three grenades which are extremely useful for taking 
 down large groups of enemies.
  
  The levels are short, about 10-15minutes each, with subscenarios for each scenario aswell.
  
 
  The replay value is fairly vast, as their are many files to collect from each level, each containing 
 a piece of resident evil history, character profiles or notes on the various types of enemies.
 
  
  Personally i have enjoyed playing this game 2 player more than 1, as 1 player is a lot harder (not 
 that i don't like a challenge) .
  
  Overall i think Umbrella chronicles is worthy of your money, as the gameplay is so good using the 
 wii remote. (i don't bother with the nunchuk, it's pretty much pointless. Also this difficulty rating 
 is for 1 player) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-other-snake
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  normally i don't expect much out of arcade rail shooters but when i saw the resident evil name 
 on it i had to try it so i did 
  first off the game is fun and not boring, i mean there are zombies and other familiar (if you have 
 played the other games in the series) monsters every where especially the last few levels ( and 
 by every where i mean part of the time you cant even kill all of them before you leave that screen, 
 at least on normal i don't know about easy and i expect that hard is even well harder) this game 
 also has different things for a rail shooter like a knife and frequent use of the grenade. oh, 
 and you can can upgrade your weapons by using stars that you collect by beating a level ( the amount 
 of stars you get depending on the rank you get on that particular level, and this makes you go 
 back to beat the levels again to get more stars so you can upgrade all your weapons) speaking of 
 weapons there are a lot of them there are fifteen (not including grenades or your ever present 
 pistol) and in the beginning each level you can pick the one that suites you the best and to get 
 them you either have to beat a level or find them in the levels them selves 
  hidden through out the levels there are files which are hidden every where in the most random places 
 which you find by destroying everything destroyable and don't get me wrong they are hard to find 
 which just adds on to the games re-playability 
  this game has cool boss fights, some easy some shall i say challenging ( and by "challenging" i 
 mean hard)
  also this game is great to play with someone else so find a friend that's willing to fight zombies 
 with you for hours on end cause like i always say "a zombie hunter in need is a friend indeed" 
 
  
  so for the story I'll make it brief it takes you through many familiar settings from old RE games 
 including: RE0, RE1, RE3, and also a new place at the end 
  
  the only bad thing is the graphics could have been better ( but it's not that bad) the music should 
 be scarier and they didn't have Leon or RE2 curse them 
  
  
  
  GET THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballplaya13
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games on the Wii. Great arcade style shooter that takes you through sceens from 
 earlier games in the series. This is different style for this series and great for you if you want 
 a action packed shooter. With enimies around what seems like every corner, theres never time to 
 let your gaurd down. There are a few things that i dont like from the game. The first is that you 
 could probably run through all the missions in under 6 hours. The other is that it seems like you 
 can never hit the critical spot. You can aim at it and shoot 5 rounds and not hit it and then turn 
 around and shoot a panic shot and somehow hit it dead on. But if you love shooters and or love 
 resident evil, you must have this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zandri
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  RE: Umbrella Chronicles is a game I have been waiting for for a long time. It is now out, and I 
 have already beaten it. There are some pros and cons to this game, which I shall describe:
  
  PROS:
  1. Graphics are reasonable.
  2. Headshots and critical strikes look really cool 
 when they happen.
  3. Cooperative play adds a whole new excitement.
  4. Most of the environment is destructible, and you can kill enemies by blowing stuff up.
  5. 
 Counterattacks are different for each character, and all are amazingly animated.
  6. All bosses are grotesque, slimy looking creatures - exactly what you'd expect from a Resident 
 Evil game.
  
  CONS:
  1. Co-op makes the game so very much easier.
  2. In certain scenes where you must dodge something, a button (s) will pop up, telling you to press 
 them to perform the dodge. If you are playing with a retard on co-op, this is almost impossible.
 
  3. Critical strikes are somewhat hard to get.
  4. Your partner simply carries a conversation with your character when you are getting mauled by 
 zombie monkeys.
  5. 'A' and 'S' ratings are seemingly difficult to achieve on "Normal" difficulty.
  
  Overall, 
 this is a great game, and a definite must-buy for FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucas145
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be my favorite light gun game right now. The graphics are amazing for a wii game, 
 the gameplay stays varied and fun, and oh my goodness, it can be really scary too. I know, scary. 
 
  When i first saw the previews for the game, i was afraid. i was afraid it would be another crappy 
 resident evil gun game. Thank goodness it isnt. Don't listen to the reviews if this is your genre. 
 i enjoyed everything about it, upgradeable guns, ratings of how well you did, and the creepy atmosphere. 
 of course the music gets in the way, but if you turn it off, the ambience becomes more apparent. 
 
  The controls are precise. now i know that's not saying much, its a light gun game with a little 
 camera control, but they have almost perfected it. It's responsive, fun, and fast. the one complaint 
 i have is that when using the zapper, also a great buy, shaking the controller for reloads and 
 time specific commands is a daunting task. But besides that, i love the feel of the gameplay.
 
  One thing to note about the graphics is that duh, it is a wii game, thus it runs on last-gen hardware. 
 The game delivers still though, i played it on an HD TV when i first got it, and it looks amazing. 
 i forget its a wii game sometimes with its amazing animations and great lighting. It runs without 
 a hitch as well, no slow down, bad framerate, nothing. If there is anything that i don't like about 
 it is that the enemies can be a bit too recycled. it makes sense though because each type of zombie 
 has their own personality, some are fast, some take many hits, and some are made of leeches. 
 
  The voice acting was top notch to me, tons better than the old fmv's of the playstation days. 
 The guns have just the right sound to them, not too heavy as to suggest they are recorded in a 
 studio, and not too light and tinny.
  Overall, i suggest you buy this game immediatly, unless you are a small child, or just plain chicken. 
 The game is scary, it has plenty of gore, and the language is rough at times, so it isnt a family 
 game. But if you do have a wii, working hands, and want a great time in the land of resident evil, 
 then the umbrella chronicles is your choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1313deadmandrve
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Being my first Resident Evil (RE) game I played, I was disipointed a little, but mostly satisfied.
 
  Gameplay: It's an on-rails shooter that takes you through RE 0,1, and 3. It has 4 levels, each 
 with three good sized stages. You can play alone or with a friend, but playing with a friend is 
 much more enjoyable. You can also upgrade and unlock new wepons that you or your friend can use. 
 When you play by yourself you go through the RE story line, and when you play with a friend, you 
 do the same thing, but with the help of a friend.
  
  Graphics/sound: The grapics look realalistic (and extremly bloody) , and the sound effects and music 
 score are amazing.
  
  Replay value: This game is about $50, and is worth it. You will want to rack up high scores, and 
 compete to see who can kill the most, or have help.
  
  Concusion: Get this game if you haven't played a RE game before. Or if you like shootingzombies. 
 OR if you like arcade like games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoke0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great controls, good story, intense gameplay, lots of replay value, just insanley fun..
 
  
  The bad: Disappointing graphics and sound, 2 games are missing, not much verity.
  
  How did Umbrella end? How did it begin? Whats with Wesker and his role in the Resident Evil games? 
 These (and a few others) questions are what Umbrella Chronicles intend to answer. Umbrella Chronicles 
 is made for fans of Resident Evil, as everything a fan ever wanted to know about Resident Evil, 
 is being told here. But gameplay is of course a big factor. Its no use providing a story, that 
 explains a major plot point in a series, if the game isent any fun to play. So how does Umbrella 
 Chronicles fare?
  
  STORY
  
  Albert Wesker, former S. T. A. R. S. leader, now a deadly man, working behind the scene, tells you 
 about how Umbrella was destoryed. We heard it was gone in Resident Evil 4, but never found out 
 excatly why. UC explains it, by retelling Resident Evil Zero, Resident Evil 1, and Resident Evil 
 3, while invinting a entirely new location, characters, and bosses. How ever the story of RE0, 
 RE1, and RE3, far from covers everything that the game told. RE0 is missing a few characters, RE1 
 missing Barry, and RE3 missing the rest of the U. B. S. C. team, and several other characters. Most 
 of the plot points in previous games arent talked about here, so its pretty much a very shortened 
 version of the games. The includsion of 2 characters at all time, also means that some of the story 
 has been changed, as you mostly in previous RE games where alone. The game dosent even include 
 the stories of the 2 best games in the series, Resident Evil 2, and Resident Evil 4. However thats 
 not the games intention. It wants to explain Umbrellas downfall and about Weskers role in all 
 of this. Its really well done, and it keeps you playing the game. It makes the story great, and 
 a lot of "so thats how it happended", and "thats why it happended" moments. Its great, but if 
 you arent a Resident Evil fan, you probaly wont get any of the story. But for a fan, its great, 
 and also brings back some memories. 8.5
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The gameplay is very diffirent from past Resident Evil games. It dosent use the old RE gameplay, 
 neither RE4 game. Instead, UC is a on rail shooter, designed with the new wii zapper. So basicly 
 UC is a lightgun game. But what a lightgun game it is. Enemies comes rushing at you, and are pretty 
 aggresive. Its by no means an easy game. Enemis come at you so fast, and you cant run away, as 
 your have no control over your characer. It makes for a lot of panic, and insanely intense moments. 
 Like in the level, where you are at the police station doring the RE3 chapter, being chased by 
 Nemesis, and countless of other monsters. Its insanely intense. It isent as intense and filled 
 with as many "Holy Crap" moments as Call Of Duty 4, but its close. During your way through the 
 levels, youll stumble across a lot of things to collect. Herbs which restores health, a first 
 aid spray which is a extra life, and of course lots of weapons. Along the way youll also stumble 
 across files, which are showen by a big Umbrela icon, which if you pick them up, can be looked 
 at at the menu screen. These files explains the plot of the games, characters, monsters, and events. 
 Of course its not easy finding them though. Objects have to be destroyed, which may or may not 
 have a file. Some includes health pick ups, and weapons, and some include files. The number of 
 objects that can be destroyed is impressive. Throw a grenade in a room, and youll see how funiture, 
 things on walls, and lights is destroyed. Its simply amazing. Theres also quick time events, 
 borrowed from RE4, and they work great here as well, and keeps the player on its toes at all times. 
 At the end of each level, your ranked based on time, critical hit, kills, stuff found, and things 
 destroyed. The ranks grants you stars, which can be used to upgrade weapons. Combined that some 
 levels have branching baths, theres quite a lot of things to do in UC. But the game of course 
 isent perfect. Critical hits feels random. Its in the head, but it seems to be right in the middle 
 between the forehead, and hair. Its hard to pull them, but satasfying when you do. The game is 
 also mighty repetive, as the game stays the same all the way through. Kill or be killed. It might 
 be a turn off from some, but its so fun, that you might forgive it. 8.5
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics are mixed. The graphics runs on Outbreak engine, but also on RE0 and RE1 engines, 
 which might seem wired. It can be clearly seen in the RE3, as the graphics arent as sharp as the 
 rest of the game. It seems odd, and does detatch a bit from the score. The levels look like themselves. 
 It seems like that the developers digged into the levels, as they where made in previous games, 
 changed enemy location, and play type, and then mixing it all together. It is disappointing that 
 the RE3 runs on the levels from the Outbreak series. The RE3 is the weakset looking part of the 
 game, as the CG cut-scenes look bad, textures are a bit more bland and gray. The frame rate also 
 has trouble staying solid. More than once, ive encourted slowdown, because of a barrel exploding, 
 or lots of enemies on screen. For a wii game, UC is looking good, but for the rest of gaming community, 
 and when compared to RE4, the graphics are only decent. 7.0
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound effects are for once sweet. Though most of the guns sound alike, they sound pretty good, 
 and the moans from zombies, and grunts from other enemies are creppy and well done. The music however 
 is a real disappointment. In a action heavey game like this, fast paced, loud, action music is 
 expected, but insted we got fast paced, low, and not much action music. It ruins the atmosphere 
 some times, and it seems like the composer (s) didnt take it seriously. The voice acting isent 
 as bad as before, and while they for some wired reason have a completely new voice for Wesker, 
 it sounds pretty good. Wesker is pretty cool to hear talk. But then theres the dialog, which in 
 some cases, are badly delivered, and written, but thats expected from a Resident Evil game. But 
 it does not mean that it dosent do anything to the overall score. 7.0
  
  LENGTH
  
  The game is suprisingly long for a lightgun game. Completing all chapters could take 10 hours, 
 but then theres side missions, and unlockables, so theres gameplay for at least 20 hours. Its 
 impressive for a game in a genre like this, where games are completed in 1 hour, packs so much 
 story and content. The only thing that can be complained about here, is the lack of a score based 
 mode, where you gain points for killing enemies, destroying stuff and so on like in House Of The 
 Dead, and Time Crisis. But whats there is good. 9.0
  
  OVERALL
  
  Its nice to see that Capcom revisits the old Resident Evil games, and gives us needed answers 
 to the series questions. Its not perfect, but its a fun, worthwhile game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stAmbrosius
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 3:48 am PT
Review:  As a RE-veteran the umbrella chronicles were the reason for me to buy a wii.
  I'm very happy with this game.
  Sure, it's an on-rail shooting experience, but to me that's a 
 plus. you rarely see this kind of game, while there are 3d shooters all over the place. It's fun 
 to play with a friend and you get to see all those familiar places from the early pre-rendered 
 resident evils. You also get to play as Wesker and he also acts as a voice-over, which realy adds 
 to the whole RE-vibe. There are no puzzles, but just blasting away at those ugly bastards proves 
 to be very satis fying. You'll get to test your ammo on zombies, crows, bats, leeches and inceasingly 
 difficult level bosses. You'l also get to know mre about the evil Umbrella Corporation and the 
 T-Virus.
  There are no levels from RE 2, 4 and code Veronica, but then again, there is material left for 
 a sequel.
  Shooting zombies never was as much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ltoreo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 8:15 pm PT
Review:  I honestly enjoyed RE: UC. Since i beat all the Resident Evils, i really enjoyed going back to those 
 old places, such as the Mansion or the Police Station just with better graphics. Its also interesting 
 on how they follow Wesker, the only bad things i can say about the game is that it has 0 play back 
 value, and it is rather difficult at times, and the ending is just a big let down. Overall the 
 game is fun if you have a few friends lying around, and should be played if you are a hardcore 
 RE fan. The Game also makes GREAT use of the Wii Zapper, in fact after i bought the game, i went 
 right out and bought a Zapper. The game features no On-line Play, but great Co-Op mode. There are 
 a number of weapons you can pick in the game, such as the classic Shotgun and Magnum. You will 
 encounter all the enemies from the previous games, and some new ones. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostchessy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  right now as i write this review i can here the atmospheric music from the main menu with sweating 
 hands from playing Resident Evil The Umbrella Chronicles. in slightly unrealted terms when asking 
 for it for christmas my parents fought it had a stupid subtitle. on the day i get it 
  
  now i had encounted alot of negitive opinon from this from the offical game spot review, byt now 
 playing this i now wonder if they have ever been right about good gameplay,
  
  the game spans all the way from Zero all the way to Code Veronica. intrestingly enough each one 
 is technicly a level, or an "incident" as wesker calls it each spilt into three sub leverls. so 
 playing the the zero part "train deraliment" there was nothing new at first, but when i finnish 
 i got masion incident and a hidden level, this was when the experinced resi player finally would 
 get interested 
  
  it also i hope gives us what actually happened at the fricken mansion in Resi 1 after 2 remakes 
 of the game (the game cube and ds ones) they contraidict each other nuts, the cube one said the 
 lab was got into via the hall and ds said it was in a cave. even worse - WHERES BARRY!! the magnum 
 armed, uber good guy ginger does not appear AT ALL in the game, except in a note which you find 
 saying he rescued jill in resi 3 (nemsis)
  
  also another major thing missing is there is no resi 2 apperence at all THATS RIGHT NO RESI 2 
 
  so thats 
  
  NO BURKIN BOSS (which was good)
  NO CLARIE REDFIELD (so they could only show the ending parts of resi veronica)
  NO LEON (oh he 
 is in a picture though)
  
  to add insult to injuy they have a hidden level which is adas escape and you find documents telling 
 the resi 2 story.
  
  lack of 2s input shows the game was rushed, unfortunat for 2 fans (im one) and it does again contradict 
 it slef.
  
  in all remakes of resi one richards death has been shark or snake. well in nightmare chapter which 
 explains how they get there, it doesnt show the death. 
  
  so its cardiac arrest...
  
  ok other than that the game play is amazing and if anyone wants to get into resi nows your chance. 
 just buy 2 after for the cube and play it on the Wii 
  
  enjoy resi fans now you are aware of the story problems 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Highsight
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  If you're a long time lover of games such as Time Crisis, love the Resident Evil series, or just 
 plain love simplistic, challenging games, this is a MUST HAVE! The game starts with Rebecca Chambers 
 and Billy Coen. They must work together to survive a train full of zombies and leeches, and discover 
 what is causing them to appear.
  
  The Controls are very basic and easy to pick up. You aim and fire with the WiiMote, reload by waving 
 the WiiMote, slash by holding down A and slashing with the WiiMote, move the camera (slightly) 
 with the Nunchuck, and change weapons with the DPad. As you play, many things such as dodging can 
 be done by pressing a button at the right time, or waving the WiiMote, doing so could mean the 
 difference between life, and death.
  
  The Gameplay is fantastic, it's not as simple as a headshot to the enemy, then move on. Sometimes 
 you really have to think when fighting even a simple zombie. There ARE 1 hit kills, but you have 
 to hit right on the brain, not the mouth, not the nose, but the brain. The boss fights are very 
 cool, you have to find that one weak spot on them and exploit it like crazy, while dodging their 
 various attacks.
  
  The environments are rich in detail and just plain creepy. What is very cool is you will go back 
 to places like the mansion, and see it rebuilt PERFECTLY, down to every room. The lighting is so 
 amazing, it's the most advanced dynamic lighting system I've ever seen. Overall, the graphics are 
 nothing to scoff at, they really make this game what it is.
  
  The voice acting is VERY well done, all of them nailed their characters personalities perfectly. 
 I find it funny to look back at the first RE game and hear how bad the voices were, then to look 
 at this and see such an improvement. Despite what GameSpot said, I love the music in this game. 
 I won't lie and say it fits in with every scene, but it's very cool music.
  
  The one downside to it being an On The Rails shooter is there WILL be situations where you want 
 to grab something, but the camera moves away from it at just the last second. This game did a good 
 job at giving you every opportunity to avoid that outcome, but it can STILL happen, so be prepared.
 
  
  So if you enjoy shooters of ANY kind, you will love this game. Go buy it NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funkymonkey4710
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  Well I the kind of person that doesn't reall go into horror games looking for a good time, nor 
 do I ever usually play horror games, but there was something about Umbrella Chronicles that really 
 stood out to me. After playing it, I reccommend to anyone looking for a good time. Though it's 
 not very scary (and I scare easily) is a good action game that plays as a good multiplayer. The 
 game by itself in singleplayer mode isn't very fulfilling, but playing with a friend makes the 
 game 10x better. The music plays good with the game and I played with the Wii Remote alone and 
 no Wii Zapper, and I found that it felt just as real as any other gun game I have played before. 
 I feel this game rocks and you don't need to be a fan of Resident Evil to love to play, but if 
 you are you'll love it even more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidgame17
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2007 3:14 am PT
Review:  Unbrella chronicles is an interesting change for the resident evil games. Instead of the normal 
 running around like a chicken w/ it head cut off, shoot 'em up zombie games, Umbrella Cronicles 
 is a set pace shooter game, kind of like House of the Dead in the arcades. the game doesnt look 
 bad, but most of the levels and zombies look like they have been copied out of the old games, buffed 
 up a little and pasted back into one game. another frustrating thing, for me at least, was getting 
 items, some items you have to be fast and have only one chance to get them. and the lack of herbs 
 to heal your self. you will be going through the level and your health will be near zero and there 
 will be no herbs nearby to heal you. other than that the game is pretty fun. if your not used to 
 or interested in set shooters, you may want to rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreatureRising
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  RS Umbrella Chronicles is a Rare Game. A type of game that makes you jump with fear but stil sucks 
 you in! Letme get right to the chase on this game. RSUC Contains RS0 RS1 and RS2 but there all 
 redown on the rails!
  Yea this is a rail shooter wich Made me a little Worried on a Buy but turned out to be a rockin 
 game
  
  Graphics-7 maybe the only thing keepin this game from Profection they look like i painted a wall 
 but no matter
  
  Gameplay-10 Best Rail Shooter out Reminds me of being in the Arcades with friends and that readers 
 is a hard to remember for me
  
  Controls -N/A i guess you could say the shooting works fine and everything else but this is a Rail 
 Shooter
  
  Value- Good to bring over a friend and have a little Party
  
  The Final word- 9 Graphics are the only main prob
  
  A little Suprise for me as soon as i put 
 in the game i expected the same old Warning Screen about the Violence and gore and well theres 
 not so for you people who are squimish i guess you can try this now But yea its stil Violent!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiidog
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Residents Evil: Umbrella Chronicles is an on rails shooter that puts you amist zombies, beasts 
 and boss fights. It is very exciting and if you scare easily you will find yourself letting out 
 a yell when a zombie charges at you. The game plays well with different types of beasts to fight 
 and zombies to be head. There are 4 chapters to play through and there are 4 levels in each chapter. 
 The game can be beaten in a day though if you have 2 players and each player has some gaming talent. 
 But if you are by yourself the game is almost impossible to beat (almost) . This game is more fun 
 with 2 people. It is very fun killing zombies with your best friend right there with you. This 
 game is at it's best with 2 players. The weapons aren't extremely diverse but there are 2 shotguns, 
 a hand gun, grenade launcher, mrl launcher, machine gun and a knife. All of these weapons are essential 
 to beating the game. Also too the Wii Zapper is GREAT in this game. It feels more realistic and 
 makes playing more exciting. I already have 2. But anyway this game is great and worth every penny. 
 I suggest though you have someone to play with and two Wii Zappers for the best gamepplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2008 11:24 am PT
Review:  I remember reading sites like Destructoid and their E3, TGS, or GDC impressions of RE: UC and have 
 them absolutely trash it as a terrible game. I really didn't want it to be true but they had solid 
 support as to why they thought the game was bad and for a while things weren't looking so hot. 
 All that aside, after finally playing RE: UC, its safe to say Capcom fixed a lot of what was complained 
 about and its truly a great game.
  
  First I'll get the minor quirks I have with the game out of the way. Why cant any zombie game adhere 
 to the basic rule that you shoot it in the head once, and it's dead? I shot a zombie in the head 
 with a shotgun and it came back. 
  
  Anyways, RE: UC is old school. It brings back the story of Resident Evil 0, 1, 3 and if I'm correct 
 a bit of Ada Wong which can be considered 2 I guess. Along with the old school games it mixes in 
 an old school mechanic of on rails shooters. Unlike most on rail shooters, RE: UC isn't fast paced, 
 but thats a good thing, the slowness in which the enemies come at you and the number of them create 
 a big tense situation of claustrophobia which is a basic zombie movie feeling which they all need 
 to adhere to in order to even start being good. If you don't feel like you're trapped, then the 
 zombies suck. 
  
  Shooting zombies is just fun. I've wanted a Zombie FPS for a while and was sorely disappointed 
 by Land of the Dead Road to Fiddler's Green ::shudder:: and until Left 4 Dead comes out, this is 
 the closest I'll get. Thats not to say I'm settling for less, Resident Evil is quite possibly the 
 best franchise to do this for, and I'm glad they did while initially I was disappointed when this 
 game was announced that it wasn't a whole new 3rd person action adventure.
  
  Not only does RE: UC deliver great gameplay but it gives fans a ton of fan service. No not panty 
 shots and big boobs you otaku, the fan service you get in here is a ton of content you find in 
 items through out the game. You'll get character profiles, monster info, and tons more stuff. No 
 RE fan will be disappointed in the amount of extras in the game.
  
  RE: UC is a fun, fun game. If you liked arcade shooters and RE, pick it up. And might I suggest 
 picking up the Wii Zapper as well, just because you feel like a badass with it haha. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: je_taime_RB_27
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil: The Umbrella Chronicles
  When I've finished the Resident Evil Rebirth, I thought that the second and third one would be 
 as good than the rebirth. But I was disappointed because the graphics, sounds and gameplay haven't 
 changed. So I hoped that Capcom would do a remake of all of them. And Capcom listen to my wishes, 
 like many of you. But the game is a shoot-em-up style instead of a action and strategy game. But 
 the result is really good too.
  
  The game is staring the stories of Resident Evil 0, Rebirth, Nemesis and a new final chapter that 
 shows ''the end of umbrella''. All of these games in one. Isn't that great. But only a few moments 
 of the games, for more information, the more important events. So if its your first Resident Evil, 
 you'll not understand all of the story. But for those you've played them like me, will appreciate 
 to remember are favorites maps, for example: the labs, the mansion, the city, the warehouse, etc. 
 And finally for the last chapter, the story takes place on Russia in a base of Umbrella where you 
 Jill and Chris will investigate this place for destroying Umbrella. 
  
  The game is compose of four chapter with 3 little chapters in them that can be played by Jill Valentine, 
 Chris Redfield, Rebecca Chambers, Billy Cohen and Carlos Oliveira. But when you complete some chapters, 
 you can play new chapters with Albert Wesker, Rebecca Chambers, Ada Wong and Hunk. These modes 
 for me are really fun to play. The ones that I prefer are Wesker's one.
  The difficulty of the game is just alright. The first time that I've tried it was at a game festival 
 named Arcadia. The difficulty was put on medium and I have to tell you, even the medium mode is 
 a bit hard so I'm telling to begin in easy and then play in medium and if you're really good. 
 
  
  The Goods: For me the force of the game comes in the gameplay. If you liked the Time Crisis and 
 Resident Evil franchise, you'll love this game. The controls are smart and well thinking cause 
 you'll have fun with your Wii remote and the zapper. Me, I preferred when I played with the Wii 
 remote than the zapper.
  The multiplayer mode can be played at any time, but there's only in the secret chapter that you 
 can't. But if you finish the game you can unlock the mode to play coop in them too. 
  What's fun in the coop mode, it's that you still have grades after each chapters, so one can shoot 
 the zombies when the other one is destroying the environments for finding some Umbrella files. 
 The graphics are amazing for the Wii, for me there bether than Metroid Prime 3's one and way better 
 than the Rebirth Resident Evil, and you know that these graphics were really good. And the sounds... there 
 great like the music. I don't why Gamespot says that the music is bad.
  
  The Bads: The problems in that game, is that it is too short. Even because I've played more than 
 10 hours, because I've replayed and replayed the scenarios, the game is too short for me. I would 
 really appreciate if Capcom would put inside this game the scenario of the Resident Evil 2 and 
 having the choice of playing with Leon or Claire. The is some glitches in the game, for example 
 zombies that cross walls, objects or other zombies, but that is rare. The Hunk secret scenario 
 is short and the mini game that we unlock at the end is bad.
  
  gameplay: 10
  graphics: 10
  sounds: 8
  tilt: 9
  value: 8
  
  I hoped you enjoyed to read my review and 
 that you learn about this game and that you'll recommend it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud9210
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 22, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil: UC is a really fun game that thrusts you through the entire story of the Umbrella 
 Corporation. In my opinion, the on-rails style of this game is perfect for the Wii. It's even fun 
 for those people who have played through all the original games because they added new side missions 
 that have never been played before and reveal new info on Umbrella. 2 player co-op is a great addition 
 that makes this game even more fun to play. It is disappointing though how they cut some of the 
 original games. It makes the game feel really short and choppy. The game really isn't that hard 
 even on its hardest difficulty, which is a bit of a let down. The controls are really easy to pick 
 up on and they are great for this type of game. The counter attacks are fun to pull off, but they 
 begin to get boring when you do the same move over and over again. The voice acting and music are 
 both absolutely terrible. Head shots are extremely hard to get and are basically got off luck and 
 not skill. This game has a great variety of guns to chose from, but when a gun runs out of ammo 
 you still have to cycle through it when trying to find a gun that has ammo, which can be really 
 frustrating at boss fights. Re: UC is a good game, but its seems like it could've done a lot better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kendo1234
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Okay, i love this game so im gonna try to be as objective as i can and start with the negative.
 
  Firstly RE: UC is an on rails shooter, nothing more, nothing less. Looking around in a limited 
 area with the nunchuck is all you get in terms of freedom and in a Resident Evil game (as in the 
 other gun survivor games in the series) this is a stifling experience and die hard fans of the 
 third person dynamic will probably avoid this like they did the (admittedly horrible) other light 
 gun Resi installments. Another minor gripe is the lack of graphical sheen and as the gamespot review 
 pointed out, you can find better visuals in the Resident remake on GC allthough what is on offer 
 is impressive enough, lets just say the Wii isnt being pushed to its limits.
  
  Okay, now the positive (yay!) . Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles is a hugely enjoyable game for 
 fans of the series and its that demographic that this game is targeting specifically. This game 
 isnt trying to win new fans or test old ones with new challenges, its a present from uncle Capcom 
 to the resi loving gamers. All the areas in the game have been lovingly recreated from thier respective 
 installments (except 4 and, inexplicably 2) and the attention to detail leaves a warm fuzzy feeling 
 inside. There will definately be a number of times when you get the buisness end of a pissed of 
 licker because youre marvelling something you have recognised from all those years ago.
  The variety on offer also sets this game apart from the dreary if it aint broke dont fix it attitude 
 of most on rails shooter. All weapons can be upgraded to allow for better rate of fire and larger 
 ammo storage and aside from the generous levels on offer initially, there are a collection of extra 
 mission and scenarios from the series. Fully destructable levels rather an aesthetic decision, 
 are integral to further the games lifespan- shoot a light fixture and you may see an Umbrella symbol, 
 hit A and youve collected one of many secret files and notes on everything from the monsters of 
 the series to that trusty lockpick Jills so fond of.
  Add to that an enjoyable multiplayer co-op mode and the sheer nostalgic buzz leaking out of every 
 aspect of this game and youve got one of the most enjoyable experiences of your RE-centric life. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super-lukaz
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is for Resi fans, so if you are not, you may not get as much out of this game, I am a 
 fan of the series, so mind me being slightly biased...
  
  This game plays through RE0, 1, 3 and includes a brand new scenario which is nice. RE0 scenario 
 is done well, but it definetly could have been better some areas missing, some bosses missing, 
 but if you don't mind these minor flaws throughout the game, you'll enjoy this. RE1's scenario 
 is the one that was probably done the best, includes most areas (misses out the forest, cabin and 
 the graveyard) the scenariois the most eeriest and captures a freaky atmosphere. RE3's scenario 
 isn't fantastic, I expected the clock tower, the hospital, the graveyard, the factory, etc. all 
 we got was streets of Racoon City, the Subway, and the police station from 2, though Nemesis makes 
 up for it, he puts up a nice fight, and he looks pretty nasty.
  
  The graphics of this game at times can be nice, but it could have been better. The gameplay is 
 the best bit of this game, It's a guilty pleasure, no puzzles, just mindless shooting, and getting 
 headshots make you feel so good. So as lazy as this game seems, theres no denying how fun it is, 
 theres lots to do, upgrading weapons, collecting files, getting top grades etc, Resi fans without 
 a doubt should get this, those never played a resi game rent this first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueresident87
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  My first impression of Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles is that the game is very well made. I 
 do feel as though I'm blasting away at zombies on an arcade machine, and the controls used with 
 the wii-mote motion sensing bring a totally unique experience to Nintendo's latest system. 
  
  First off, the graphics are actually very pleasing. The lighting is a bit off at times, but 
 for the most part the environment of the game is superb. When playing and shooting at everything 
 on the screen (as nearly everything can be destroyed, in fact, it is one of the criteria that determines 
 rank) the player can take out the lights, which instantly casts a shadow over a particular area 
 of the level. The character models look just like they did in the Gamecube renditions of RE, only 
 a little cleaner. The enemies look very good, and the amount of detail with some of the slimy, 
 scaly, and oozy enemies of the game is quite impressive. While obviously not at the top of the 
 graphical heirarchy, It looks as though RE: UC pushed the Wii to its visual limits, doing a nice 
 job of it I might add.
  
  As I mentioned above, the controls are very good. One uses the Nunchuck to 'view' their environs, 
 while aiming wherever they please with the wiimote in their other hand. The accuracy awarded by 
 the motion-sense controls is outstanding, with practice I've been able to pile up 50+ critical 
 hits on certain missions. Grenades are simple to use and shooting out the legs of your enemies 
 takes them to the ground. You can use either the d-pad (pushing up & down) to select/change weapons, 
 and or hold down b and tap z to cycle through. Rarely I had a problem switching out weapons, and 
 most times was able to do so in the heat of battle with little incident.
  
  The sound is exactly what you would expect from a RE game, moody and creepy. I give the sound high 
 ranks though; the game does a nice job of utilizing noise and music to keep players in the element 
 of the game. And since the game runs on a rail system, I found that the sound easily follows and 
 complements the game, since the player will be in a certain place around a certain time. The voice 
 acting, well... it is Resident Evil...
  
  As for the gameplay, top notch. The player will travel through many an old RE locale to reach the 
 end of the game. Very well paced, the player will move from one mission to another while achieving 
 ranks on each level as they progress. Rank is determined by time, # of enemy hits, # of critical 
 hits, # of objects destroyed, and # of files obtained. The better the rank, the more stars you 
 earn to spend on weapon upgrades. Outstanding marks on certain missions un-lock 'side-quests' and 
 as the player moves from one act to another the missions become more and more difficult. The difficulty 
 seems to be just right, as the player is awarded weapons throughout the levels that are increasingly 
 more powerful and more valuable in the later areas of the game. A very nice selection of weapons 
 is given, while of course offering customization of every weapon to increase ammo capacity and 
 power. The bosses are well done, you basically just pump them full of lead while executing 'wii-motions' 
 to avoid certain attacks. I won't give any of the bosses away, but they are all from the series 
 and should be exciting for old fans of the series to fight again. 
  
  The multi-player works very well. Both players use their own wii-mote, with their own designated 
 reticule to blast away at baddies on screen. The game does seem a little easier when you have an 
 ally that knows what they're doing, but playing with two people is an absolute blast. I would suggest 
 this game to any Wii owner that is looking for a good, solid multi-play game. Kept me and my friends 
 entertained for a good long time, we're still playing it.
  
  In the end, you have to understand the type of game Umbrella Chronicles is. It's not a game of 
 the year, or even a game of the month. It is not the kind of deep, immersive title that will keep 
 you craving more for a month or two. No, it's the kind of game you'll find yourself playing in 
 shorter amounts of time, but that makes it no less of a good game. A very fun game, worth playing 
 for all fans of RE and even people who just like good old fashioned shooting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  This is perhaps the hardest game I have to write a review for and score. At one end I LOVE IT! 
 At the other I HATE IT! Its such a mixed bag that I don't know what to think about it. 
  
  I'll start out with the "pros" of the game:
  Its LONG. There is so many levels its ridiculous! 
 Most shoot em ups like this last maybe an hour or two. This took a few days. It goes through most 
 of the games locations (better looking at that) as you play the diffrent characters and basically 
 shoot the crap out of everything from zombies to utterly pain the butt bosses.
  
  Theres a pretty simple sounding control scheme (its not at first) of shooting, nade throwing, knife 
 slashing, switching weapons and controlling your camera. Most games have shoot and thats it. As 
 you go through the game you play through chapters (you choose) and choose a character each time. 
 You can unlock side stories that no one has seen before, pretty cool stuff for RE fans! These stories 
 are playable and usually harder then the normal chapters.
  
  Most everything like lamps, signs, cars... etc is destroyable and has stuff behind it like nades, 
 guns, folders, health. The stuff you collect like folders you can view at the main menu and lets 
 you read stuff once again about various things in the RE world. However there is ALOT of stuff 
 to read if you manage to collect it all. As you progress you collect stars at the end of the level 
 depending on how you did. Why is this important? The more stars mean the higher you can upgrade 
 your 20+ guns. Which is very useful when you get further in the game. Really it just gives you 
 more ammo and stuff like that but every bit helps.
  
  All this is definitely worth your money. Theres so much to do and see and its really fun. But this 
 game has flaws that make you tug at whether or not its all worth it.
  
  The bad:
  The controls seem easy but if your like me and never played Nintendo much then this game is a pain! 
 At first when you try to throw a nade you'll end of losing health because you can't remember which 
 button is which. And the game uses "quick thinking" buttons all the time such as if a boss runs 
 at you you literally have 0.5 seconds to hit Z-B to dodge it. It may sound easy but you rarley 
 have enough time to dodge it beacuse it pops up and OFF screen so fast and your fingers can't react 
 that fast. Which makes boss fights incredibly hard.
  
  Another bad thing is while the game lets you have two players the unlockable guide missions are 
 only one. So your friends are stuck watching you possibly for an hour (if your not that good) while 
 you try to kick some boss butt at the end of that chapter. Nothing major but if you have friends 
 that hate not playing then its ruins the point of 2 players.
  
  Yet some more negatives are the fact they have a "quick kill" system where you shoot enemies in 
 heir weak points and they die. That is if you could hit the point. Even the basic zombie, if you 
 hit his weak point (his forehead) his head explodes making it much easier then shooting a few bullets 
 in his head. But this rarley happens either because the game doesn't detect it right or because 
 its just to darn hard (for many reasons) .
  
  I got this because the big hype was "Best game for the Wii Zapper". Wow its anything but that. 
 I actually (along with my friend) found it easier without it. Especially when you have to things 
 like slice with your knife (shake controller) . We found choosing the Wii Zapper control scheme 
 and then just using the controller and nun-chuck without the zapper worked best! Maybe its because 
 trigger should be at the back of a gun not the front making it awkward to hold.
  
  As if it isn't bad enough with these problems your always running out of ammo. Which while its 
 part of the game is a pain later in the game if you haven't upgraded properly. Having infinite 
 pistol ammo may be useful but with 10 enemies rushing at you that take multiple bullets its hard 
 to NOT die. At least you can upgrade all the guns to infinite ammo if you actually get enough stars.
 
  
  Overall the game is fun but the negatives make you quit and come back later. So you do beat at 
 some point. I would rent for sure, but if you can't handle things that are a pain the butt or harder 
 games don't bother renting it. Only the insane hardcore RE fans that have all the RE merchandise 
 and posters... etc will want to buy this more so for the info you can read about and the side missions. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutta27
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil Umbrella Chronicals is an on rails shooter for the nintendo wii:
  
  This game follows the story of 3 different Resident evil games + it also fills in some of the blanks 
 between games. You start off in resident evil 0 where you get to play as Billy an escaped convict 
 or Rebecca Chambers a medic for the S. T. A. R. S Bravo team, there has been a viral outbreak in Racoon 
 City and your aim is to escape this outbrak alive. In the 2nd part of this game you play as either 
 Jill or Chris S. T. A. R. S members from alpha team who are in search of a missing bravo team. In the 
 3rd part of the game you play as Jill and Carlos in their search for answers and attemtp to escape 
 a city about to be blown up by a nuclear weapon. The strory is shown in short blocks that really 
 doesn't really pull you into the world of racoon city and just feels a little rushed.
  
  I have never really been a fan of the on rail genre of shooters as i feel they are not as immersive 
 as usual games and therfore not as much fun but i have always been a Resident Evil fan, resident 
 evil has always been my favorite series of survival horror games so i felt i had to give it a try 
 even after the awful game that was Re: Survivor. This game in no way captures the horror tone of 
 resident evil which makes it feel like another cash in of the great franchise. Saying all this 
 i feel that it is a competant shooter and would fare better without the resident evil name, i feel 
 that these sorts of games should be played in short bursts and as a party game and the resident 
 evil story does not lend itself to those types of game. The controls are bretyty basic, you use 
 the wii mote to aim and the b button acts as a trigger, the nunchuck is used to let you look around 
 a little. The controls work well and also fell pretty good, but i think that they would work better 
 if i had the wii zapper.
  
  The game looks ok for a wii game, the colour is a little dark and drab but i feel it fits the tone 
 of the game well. Resident evil has always been good at using music and sound to create tension 
 but i never really feel it in this game.
  
  Overall it is a good game, i just feel it would have been allot better without using the Resident 
 Evil name. The game is a little short and the story never really pulls you in, At times I do feel 
 a little a little nostalgical playing through a game i loved through a different perspective. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digilobe
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  The Umbrella Chronicles is such a cool shooting game. Some players may find that this game is quite 
 challenging, because of the difficulty of the game is reasonably high level. The game itself is 
 adopted to the tradition of Resident Evil stories through Resident Evil 0, 1, 3, and the brand 
 new scenario. Though, the players won't feel that they are controlling Resident Evil characters 
 because of this on-railed shooter system, the atmosphere is perfectly like Resident Evil. Even 
 some players will be fascinated by monsters from the past Resident Evil series, if they're huge 
 fan of Resident Evil.
  There are more zombies to shoot through the game (Of course!) . Find their weakness, hold the remote 
 tight, and shoot! To control the remote is quite comfortable, and very easy to understand. When 
 you play this game a few times, you'll be like a professional shooter. Plus, fun to customise the 
 weapons. Overall, I'm very happy about this game. Good to play with your friends as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 15, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil Umbrella Chronicles
  Developed/ Published by Capcom
  
  General Intro to Resident Evil and Umbrella Chronicles:
  
  Resident Evil has recently gained 
 momentum in popularity due to the successfully released and consumed Resident Evil 4. Capcom, to 
 no real surprise, has a bit of a history with remakes when it comes to its Resident Evil franchise. 
 The original Resident Evil has been remade several times in the form of a Gamecube exclusive, and 
 even on the Nintendo DS as Resident Evil: Deadly Silence. RE4 has also been re-released for the 
 PS2, PC, and Wii. Several of the other RE games have been re-released for multiple platforms several 
 times. Resident Evil Umbrella Chronicles is a condensed version of RE0, 1, and 3. There is also 
 several other interesting chapters added in an attempt to fill in the gaps between the thriving 
 Umbrella and the demolished one you hear about at the beginning of RE4.
  In an attempt to, I suppose, make this game feel new it typically takes the previous games, condenses 
 them into a few (usually three) short 15 minute chapters, and (instead of mimicking the original 
 storyline per se) the entire game operates through the eyes of Wesker. Wesker, generally speaking, 
 was the ultimate culprit of the Resident Evil saga. Gameplay:
  
  Unlike any other RE game, REUC is setup like an old-school arcade shooter. The game is in a first 
 person view and you use the Wii-mote and nunchuk the same as a light gun to point, shoot, switch 
 weapons, and reload. You have no control over your characters direction. Sometimes, however, there 
 will be branching paths to choose from and you can tilt the camera slightly using the nunchuk. 
 For practical purposes this is a roller coaster ride of Resident Evil lore. Enemies will swarm 
 you and it will be up to you to fend off wave after wave of zombies, infected monkeys, deadly hunters, 
 and so on. You are given a score (S, A, B, C, D) based on the time, number of hits, critical hits, 
 items destroyed, and files obtained. There are several types of guns you can obtain and switch 
 through in-game including shotguns, machine guns, magnums, and rocket launchers. A typical chapter 
 will have you shooting enemies, hopefully criticaling a few here and there by hitting specific 
 sweet spots (for zombies it's the top of their forehead) , destroying background objects, and eventually 
 facing a boss of some type. Destroying objects in the background helps you find additional guns, 
 ammo, health, and special files. Pros:
  + Graphically impressive for the most part. Character models are taken directly from the Gamecube 
 RE games and still look good today.
  + Recaps many of the previous RE games in a way that is fun and easy to get into without having 
 to spend hours playing the original games.
  + Controls are easy to learn and manage.
  + 2-player coop is always nice
  + A good variety of enemies and bosses
  + Critical hits can 
 be very rewarding when pulled off in succession
  + A lot of extra files to unlock that are a throwback to previous RE games
  + Fairly lengthy 
 game (roughly 5-10 hours +) considering the type of game it is.
  
  Cons:
  - All of the extra missions are single player only. - Resident Evil 2 was not included (arguably 
 one of the best RE games)
  - Scripted events requiring you to tap A, press A+B, etc. can be very unforgiving and difficult 
 in later portions of the game.
  - Critical hits can feel arbitrary. Critical hits only count against zombies, not against other 
 enemies even if you find their sweet spot.
  - Wesker's viewpoint is interesting, but a lot of CG footage from the gamecube games could have 
 been included. Several inaccuracies are evident to anyone who has played the original games.
  - Single-player chapters could have been 2-player chapters. I really didn't understand why CAPCOM 
 made single-player chapters.
  - Controls are limited. Shaking the wii-mote to reload causes you to scribble on the screen. This 
 is particularly annoying when playing with a second player. Unfortunately, there is no option to 
 make it where you shake the nunchuk to reload instead which, in my opinion, would have made more 
 sense.
  - Disappointing rewards. Files are bland, void of nearly any artwork or interactivity making it 
 a bore to look at. Better reward system would have been nice.
  
  Closing Comments:
  
  REUC is best suited for the old-school RE fans who like old-school arcade shooters. If you are 
 new to RE and enjoyed RE4 then it wouldn't hurt to give REUC a try. Other types of game fans are 
 less likely to appreciate this title and may not find it as rewarding to play. REUC has its flaws, 
 but overall it is still a game that will please RE fans like myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fon1988
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2007 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Hi, fon here. Just a quick review today for any and all of you interested in the Resident Evil 
 series or for the ones who just want to check this one out. First off, the game tells the tale 
 of Resident Evil: Zero, Resident Evil and Resident Evil 3. Each one is divided into sections and 
 they take between 10-20 minutes a peice. The game is actually pretty good length for a light gun 
 game. The controls are very easy to understand and after a few minutes you will be familiar with 
 everything the game is going to offer. For those of you that have hated light gun arcade games 
 in the past, this one is not going to change your mind. But for those of you that have enjoyed 
 them, you will definitly find something to like here. Some games in this genre are pretty shallow 
 when it comes to gameplay options but Capcom has really pushed the game to it's limits. There are 
 multiple difficulty settings, bucket loads of extra missions that almost double the length of the 
 game and the entire thing is fully co-op with plenty of options to upgrade your weapons. You always 
 have a gun with infinite ammo but it's not too powerful so you will want to pick up and upgrade 
 weapons as you go. Plus, as you progress you can look around your surroundings with the nunchuck 
 which will come in handy as you progress. There are multiple objects in the enviroments that can 
 be shot and destroyed that hold files, weapons, ammo, health, etc. The files hold key elements 
 for the story so you will definitly want to replay levels and find each one. Also, after each level 
 you are given a rank and the better your performance was, the more points you will gain to spend 
 on upgrades. So if you can't beat the next stage, you will want to replay the previous stages till 
 you are great at them and can upgrade your weapons. This is especially helpful when you are playing 
 co-op gameplay. Overall, the game is one of capcom's finest and definitly deserves a place in any 
 Resident Evil fans collection as they will be the ones who appreciate this game the most. New fans 
 to the series are more than welcome here because you will find out the back story to alot of the 
 games sinister plots that have played out since the originals release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 2, 2009 10:38 am PT
Review:  I happen to be a fan of the series and also a fan of shooters so I had a very good time with this 
 game. I have never really played many onrail shooters in the past but with the new Wii Zapper I 
 had to try it. For the most part I was not disappointed. The game takes you through RE Zero, RE, 
 and RE 3. Then there are plenty of bonus missions to unlock that equal out to be about as long 
 as the main game. It will take most players around five hours of gameplay to complete all the missions 
 including the bonus ones. Which makes the game pretty short but with the ability to play through 
 all these missions with a friend gives the game good replay value. Also fans will get more replay 
 by wanting to collect all the files, max out all the weapons, and beat the game on the harder difficulty 
 settings. So when it is all said and done you can get 20+ hours of gameplay out of chronicles. 
 
  
  The graphics in my opinion are some of the better graphics on the Wii. Capcom was able to catch 
 the look and feel of RE. I thought they were as good as the gamecube installments. The sound also 
 is good for a faster paced RE. There are also a lot of bosses from Tyrant to Nemesis which is really 
 cool for RE fans. The voice acting and the cutscences are both well done also.
  
  There are a couple of problems as you might expect from an onrail shooter. The game can become 
 quite monotonous where you don't have direct control over your character. Of course there are no 
 puzzles which is part of what makes the series so compelling. Also you never feel that tension 
 of when am I going to run into that next monster. In other words this game will not keep you on 
 the edge of your seat like other RE games. The controls while mostly solid sometimes falter a little 
 bit on precision. I felt like Link's Crossbow Training was a little more precise. Which is something 
 you could expect because this is third party. The game might be a little easier not using the Zapper 
 because sometimes you have to waggle your nunchuk and it didn't seem to work sometimes. I would 
 suggest though you at least try the Zapper because I felt it made the game more fun.
  
  Overall I was pleased with the effort and would definitely play another onrail shooter from this 
 series but I am not sure if I would buy it because of the length. But it is a solid game that I 
 would feel most players would enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuramak
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  I think the game is really hard, and a lot of that is because you can't accualy move.
  This on-rails system really sucks. You need to be really quickly to get items, you can't dodge, 
 you can't explorer the area.
  Ha have just play resident evil 4 (great game) , so a did want the play the other version , that's 
 why i bought resident evil : the umbrella chronicles , what is really disappointing , don't feel 
 like resident evil 4.
  The graphics are really nice , action from begging to end , no time to rest .
  Many bosses.
 
  The inventory is also disable, so you just can't choose when use a herb or some thing.
  I really did hate the on-rails thing.
  Some times you just don't have time to shoot, get items 
 and every thing, This also did cut a bit the of the "horror" of resident evil, it feels more like 
 a average action game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justin2009
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  The game is just as good as RE4. People say that it was just the second and third one combined, 
 and i don't know if that is true, because i have only played the forth one, and this one, so I 
 didn't base my review on that issue. Bad thing is that the background music is giving off the surrounding 
 in the environment, so it's not surprising as i wish it was, just play on mute if you don't like 
 that part, but no game is very fun without sound. Overall, i think that it is a very good game, 
 and it is worth the $50!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  One thing i love about a game when the Game has Great Boss Battles. And Resident Evil Umbrella 
 Chronicies has this gets a 10 there. The rail Shooters i love a big fan the countrolls work very 
 nice and with the Wii Zapper just plain Fun all the way Big 10 there. the Graphics is its down 
 side the frist level in my view is awful looking on the Train ride other things look flat over 
 all on the Graphics i would give a 7. Music is fine in my view nothing Great but ok. Give a 7 there. 
 The Boss fights and just fighting the dead and going through all the Games in the pass and just 
 the Great fun puts it up there on my list of a classic Game Buy the Game you will love it thanks 
 Mars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHUTupNrocK8
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  With all the love Capcom is showing to Nintendo, why not an exclusive arcade based shooter? Wesker 
 and friends, or foes, are back in an arcade based shooter for the Nintendo Wii. Resident Evil: 
 Umbrella Chronicles brings a new perspective to the Resident Evil franchise with an on rails shooter 
 that tells the stories and the untold stories of Resident Evil 0, 1, 2, and 3. It basically brings 
 you into battles you've had in previous games. Although, not much content from Resident Evil 2 
 is included, the necessary missions to obtain the G virus are told while you play through a new 
 playable character's perspective, in which you have to unlock as a side mission throughout the 
 course of the game (this will be discussed later in the review.)
  
  Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles starts off on the Epileptic Express (Resident Evil 0) where 
 you play as Rebecca or Billy. You will soon notice that the storyline of the previous games may 
 have been twisted or redone (you only will notice this if you had played the pervious games.) Not 
 big changes, only changes so that two characters are working together during the missions, thus 
 the co-op mode. 
  
  Co-op mode is where the fun and excitement of this rails shooter can be recognized. Two players 
 are playing through the game as a single player would be, but both are sharing one life bar, which 
 can set the feeling of emergence while walking through a pitch black subway with only the help 
 of a flash light, a gun, and oh yea -- your buddy sitting next to you. The anxiety will definitely 
 be lowered while playing with a friend throughout the outrageously prolonged and intense boss battle, 
 but if you're playing on your own, Good Luck!
  
  Once you're alone, Boss battles may take up to 10 to 15 minutes depending on difficulty and the 
 boss being fought, unless you have the right artillery to take the foe down. The boss battles may 
 be so prolonged that you will be running in the same path over and over again, actually running 
 out of the reach of shooting the weak spot of the boss. All boss and enemies have a distinct weak 
 spot on they're body, in which you have to shoot in order to take that boss or enemy down with 
 out taking major damage. You can gain knowledge of such weak spots through reading documents.
 
  
  Documents will become a crucial part of the game in order to fill in gaps from previous plot holes, 
 to find out enemy's weak spots, and to study the anatomy of the creatures. These documents are 
 obtained by destroying breakable objects, such as lights, lamps, desks, chairs, and basically anything 
 hanging from a wall. Also most of your ammo, health, and many other items will be found in breakable 
 objects. You are also graded on your performance of your destruction, so break everything you see! 
 Be quick, because your moving so fast, picking up items maybe be tricky. The documents found during 
 missions add a sense of replay value to the game; because certain documents can only be found in 
 certain paths you can choose from during the game. Yes, you have to choose between two different 
 path during some missions making you come back to play the mission again -- choices, choices! 
 
  
  Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles features side mission like I mentioned before. This is where 
 you can play as Wesker, Rebecca, and many other unlockable character's missions along the way. 
 The side missions not only add to the replay value of the game, but they will show how you meet 
 up with the characters during the game and what they had to go through to get where they were. 
 Two little nuisances in the side missions are that they're only solo missions, and they're not 
 the easiest missions either, also many of the side missions can only be unlocked by scoring an 
 A or S ranking at the end of the mission. The difficulty setting for the game doesn't really vary 
 at all in Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles either. Basically, easy equals hard, normal equals 
 very hard, hard equals impossible, and you know where I'm going with this. The difficulty will 
 be a huge set back in this game, you most likely will be running through a mission about five times 
 before you get it right because you can't save ingame -- there are only one or two checkpoints 
 in the whole mission.
  
  Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles controls are standard. To aim, point your WiiMote at the screen, 
 to reload, shake the WiiMote up and down, and to switch weapons, just a tap of the C button. So 
 much more could have been done to improve the game's feel, after Resident Evil 4's impressive feel, 
 although, Capcom could did more with the controls. Once again, like Resident Evil 4, you have to 
 be cautious during cutscenes by pushing A or B repeatedly or by the waving of the controller. The 
 reloading may not be responsive at times, creating a whole lot of frustration and a low health 
 bar!
  
  At times, the game may sound great and very fun, but it has its fair share of annoyances and bugs. 
 Some annoyances can consist of the continuous oncoming enemies (enough is enough,) and most of 
 the time you have to start the mission over and over again due to the absent checkpoints. Some 
 enemies such as leeches, baby spiders, and bees have to be terminated in order to move on, so expect 
 to kill every one of those little bugs, when you could easily just step on them and split. The 
 leeches and spiders also just on presumably what is supposed to be your face, which limits the 
 real feel of the game. Some of the zombies spit goo out of they're mouths and you can shoot it 
 out of the air, which really doesn't make much sense. Also, don't try to beat those bosses on your 
 own unless you're really good, they can be very annoying and too long to handle. Aside from the 
 minor and major annoyances and "bugs," this game is on top of the arcade shooters list. If you 
 like an action packed shooter, Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles is for you, but it really doesn't 
 leave much closure for hardcore Resident Evil fans.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  When Umbrella Chronicles was first unveiled last summer, most critics feared it was little more 
 than a House Of The Dead rip-off with prettier zombies. And while that description is still a handy 
 way to sum up the experience, deep gunplay and a sprawling backstory help the game to rise above 
 Sega's arcade blaster.
  
  Shoving players down a series of claustrophobic corridors where the undead lurch from every corner, 
 UC cleverly uses the Wii remote as a pistol, allowing players pinpoint precision when it comes 
 to blasting a monster's miniscule weak spot and making kills more gratifying than in HOTD's shallow, 
 trigger happy maelstrom. Moreover, while wielding the remote lacks the visceral charm of using 
 a plastic lightgun, you can hurl grenades, swop weapons and reload with one hand and the simplest 
 of gestures, in turn making the action more immediate and immersive.
  
  Oddly shoddy graphics and repetitive action undermine an otherwise compelling shooter, but Resident 
 Evil aficionados will forgive UC's faults as it fleshes out familiar episodes and unseen set-pieces 
 from the series' 11-year legacy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike-revo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  I aint played this game very long but long enough to review it. Im gonna be brief this time unlike 
 with my metroid prime 3 review. Resident Evil Umbrella Chronicles is a great on rail shooter. At 
 first i was a bit sceptical about the game being on rails but it actually adds more fear and tension 
 o the game since you can't escape from enemies and the thrill of panic when zombies rush towards 
 you is immersive. The Wii Zapper gives the game a more inclusive feeling even though it hinders 
 your aiming slightly. The game is very challenging and the action comes at a fast and furious pace. 
 For an on rail shooter REUC has hours of contents, missions take time to complete and there are 
 jus as side mission as there are normal ones and the selection of playable characters from different 
 resident evil games is a great bonus espcecially the ones that werent playable and now are, such 
 as albert wesker and richard aikan. The game retells the story of RE 0,1 and 3 aswell as the untold 
 mysteries behind umbrellas rise and fall and the ability for co-op allows you to share the nightmare 
 with a friend. Visuals look good although could've been better but more than substancial and me 
 and im sure other resident evil fans aint complaining. RE UC is a briliant game for wii, ne1 looking 
 for hardcore gaming horror should check it out and for resident evil fans this is a must have even 
 if it means buying a wii (which i strongly urge you do) . Just try not to play it alone in the dark 
 and try not to have nightmares. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dehearik_nova
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  When umbrella chronicles was first announced , people expected it to be just another resident evil 
 re make, after a long wait, fans soon realized that this game was more than just a polished arcade 
 shooter, it was revolutionary. You control 8 characters and tell the tale of the story and fall 
 of umbrella sailing through games such as resident evil 0, 1 and 3, missing out number altogether 
 although characters from the series such as HUNK and ada are in the game as playable characters. 
 The graphics defy the power of the wii console and make the experience feel so real, with 15 ugradable 
 weapons, artefacts and items to collect and 25 or more levels to complete resident evil umbrella 
 chronicles will keep gamers impressed for months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chief-Irons
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  It's a light gun game which explores the previous environments in the earlier Resident Evil series: 
 Zero, Remake and Three plus an additional story based in the Umbrella Headquarters. Each section 
 is divided into three chapters and your performance is based on: time, files found, monsters killed, 
 critical hits and objects destroyed. 
  
  Higher ranks means more star points which can be used to upgrade your guns, its disappointing that 
 the weapon customisation is very limited with only four upgrades on each and you don't get to choose 
 what part to upgrade (unlike Resident Evil Four) . High grades can unlock new scenarios and other 
 additional "quest items" which adds to the nostalgia and will keep fans blasting through hordes 
 of zombies again and again. 
  
  As with most light gun games it is on rails so don't expect to be able to go wherever you like, 
 this also adds to the fear factor the feeling of not being able to control were you go or not being 
 able to escape and having to fight the nearest monsters.
  
  The new scenarios are enjoyable due to the brand new boss fights and explanations as to what happened 
 to some of the other characters in the series. My only gripe is the rare amount of unique environments; 
 you end up travelling through previous areas in a different order. 
  
  The achieve is organised based on the Resident Evil timeline, for example all files and quest items 
 earned during the first scenario go at the beginning, plus if you haven't read a file it will say 
 "new", so it does a good job of keeping the player informed which files have and haven't been read. 
 
  
  The remote is used to blast through a multitude of traditional Resident Evil creatures as well 
 as destroying objects to uncover items such as weapons, grenades, herbs, first aid sprays and files. 
 When you collect herbs most of your health is restored, but when you collect first aid sprays it 
 is only used when you run out of life, this acts like an extra life and with the later levels you 
 will need it! Your also able throw grenades by aiming and pressing A + B, ideal for hurting bosses 
 or clearing out annoying monsters or destroying objects. Wave the Wii remote and hold A to use 
 your knife to kill things that latch onto your screen such as leaches and spiders, this is just 
 annoying and interrupts the pacing of the gameplay.
  
  The bosses are fun and they tend to use a variety of attacks. Their health is displayed at the 
 bottom of the screen so that makes it easier to tell where to shoot. When the boss attacks you 
 are required to shoot a certain part of its body or input a action command, if done successfully 
 will dodge the attack, in two player the command will come up on the left (player 1) or right (player 
 2) so its vital that both players are alert and requires an element of teamwork which enhances 
 multiplayer experience. 
  
  If you don't like playing on your own you can bring a friend. The two player mode is very well 
 implemented as it comes with various advantages and disadvantages in terms of difficulty, for example 
 you share a lifebar and are both required to pass the interactive cutscenes (which thankfully are 
 random each time) , but you will also make killing enemies easier.
  
  The music leaves a lot to be desired, poor remixes of classic tunes feel out of place. Resident 
 Evil fans like me would have preferred the original songs from previous games of the series. The 
 audio is loyal to the series plus the remote speaker makes the sound of gun shoots and reloading 
 unique to each weapon. 
  
  Shadow flickering and clipping issues take a bite out the visuals, especially during counter attacks 
 when you mysteriously pass through everything, its also odd how monsters sometimes pass through 
 all the objects. Problems aside the quality is generally good although judging from Super Mario 
 Galaxy the Wii is capable of so much more. 
  
  Fans of the series should buy the game as its great fun to go through the series previous environments 
 in full 3D and answer some questions about the story; new files also add more depth to the story. 
 People who like on rail shooters will like this game because of entertaining single and multi player. 
 This should take around ten hours to complete and another ten to unlock everything. Everyone else 
 should at least give this game a rental and then decide whether or not to buy it.
  
  Strengths: Fun to play, two player co-op, loads of unlockables, faithful recreation of earlier 
 environments, good boss fights 
  
  Weakness: Some graphical issues, bad music and limited weapon customisation
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: glitchesofwar
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw that this was to be a light gun game I found myself to be surprisingly hyped for 
 its release. I am a fan of both light gun and Resident Evil games. It seemed that this game would 
 be ideal for me. 
  
  Having recently completed it I have to say that it was a fun ride while it lasted. Granted it was 
 quite short to complete the main campaign but I would imagine getting high ranks on hard could 
 pull the gameplay time well above the 30 hour mark. 
  
  As for the gameplay , I was quite impressed. The basic gunplay was well varied across the first 
 three chapters with the fourth just barely touching on the realms of tedium. I enjoyed the headshot 
 system in particular as the difficulty in hitting that sweet spot made that bloody explosion even 
 more satisfying than I though possible. The music in this game was unusual and in my opinion fantastic 
 if just a little inappropriate in some parts. Weapon variety was there and the bosses are some 
 of the best ever conceived using the light gun system. Nemesis was especially memorable (as he 
 always is) . The games story was all how it should have been with the many Wesker chapters a welcome 
 change in perspective. Difficulty was perfect in my opinion as a cakewalk would have been boring 
 to the extent that the game would be barely playable
  
  Sadly the Umbrella Chronicles wasnt all that it could have been. Graphics were quite poor really 
 although they did manage to capture the bleak atmosphere nicely. Dialogue and voice acting varied 
 from acceptable to poor but such is the standard in most RE games. Weapon sounds however were simply 
 subpar. Since there is really no reason to not be firing the gun at ANY point in the game I feel 
 there should have been more effort put in. Glitches are definitely there along with many other 
 minor annoyances too small to go into in any detail.
  
  In spite of this what surfaces is a good game. Some aspects will blow you away, others will irritate 
 subjectively. The beauty of this game is very much in the eye of the beholder. If you think that 
 you will like it then you will. Play it sceptically and you will find plenty to criticise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Ok so this is probably the 5th time that Resident Evil has been remade to fit a certain type of 
 genre. But if it ain't broke then don't fix, and certainly remake it. This is also the 3rd foray 
 that the RE series has gone into the FPRS type. This is by far the best of those attempts. 
  
  Basically RE: The Umbrella Chronicles re-tells RE0, RE1, and RE3 from a first person rails 
 shooter stand point. Many of the locations will look close to their prior game relatives. The stories 
 of each of the games have been "dumbed" down into 3 scenes for each game. Plus another 3 scenes 
 are revealed at the end once you complete the RE3 cycle. As you progress through the game other 
 levels will open up giving you an inside look as to what certain minor characters were doing at 
 the time major events were happening. Also most of the time you will have a choice of what character 
 you want to use and what your primary weapons are. You can also level up the effectivness of the 
 weapons as the game progresses. You will always have your base level pistol which will become increasingly 
 less effective as the game goes on. 
  
  As far as visuals are concerned RE: UC doesn't slack. Although it's not as pretty as RE4. It certainly 
 is better the all the prior installments. The voice acting has been re-done, and most (accept for 
 Wesker) are better. The music is what really kills the atmosphere. The music is really arcade like. 
 While this is an arcade like game, it takes away from the creepiness of the game. The sounds aren't 
 unusual, lots of moans and groans from the attackers. 
  
  The controls are pretty slick and are well suited to the Wiimote. You can tell that Capcom put 
 a lot of thought into them. Granted it's nothing more then a point and shoot, but it flows well. 
 If you hold down the A button and swing about you knife can be used to dislodge beings from your 
 screen. The only complant I have is throwing gernades can be problematic. If you actually get the 
 timing right and swing the Wiimote it'll probably go where you don't want it. Otherwise shooting 
 Zombies hasn't been funner. The game keeps it's pace by keeping you creeping along rather then 
 a blazing speed. Probably much like the first time you played the original games. You can mess 
 with the control scheme a little here and there to make it to your liking. The best way to describe 
 the game is intense. 
  
  There isn't too much replay value to the game. You can unlock little things here and there. It's 
 almost like the readers digest verision of all three RE games. There is little added to they mythos 
 of RE. It's too bad that RE2 wasn't mixed in as well. All the major playable characters are there. 
 Rebecca, Jill, Chris, and so on are all playable. The only thing that sets them apart is their 
 counter attack animation when a zombie attempts to bite you. Wesker is there as well and has his 
 own levels. The game play is intense and expect the difficulty to climb as the game goes on. It 
 helps that all the zombies pop up in the same places so you come to expect them. The best part 
 is the boss battles. They are even more intense with the usual RE twists to defeat them. 
  
  All in all RE: UC is worth a play through or two. It may not spend an eternity in your collection. 
 It's certainly harkens back to the old arcade days of Area 51 and such, but right in your own home. 
 So if your a fan of RE or a retro fan of the old arcade game days, this is a worth while pick up. 
 Plus with the re-re-release of RE4 and the upcoming RE5, you can get some back gruond. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowofamn1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  RE: UC feature the Umbrella evil plan being reveal starting from RE 1, it basically follows the 
 story line of RE 1, 0, and 3, filling any plot holes that the old games didn't cover. The Rail 
 shooter part of the game wasn't that amazing, you get to know when enemy appears and stuff that 
 happen after you play the level a few time, each level can be clear around 10-15 minutes average, 
 the difficulties only change the amount of damage you take and the amount of shot you need to kill 
 an enemy. The critical shot system was well done, it's a skill that you learn from playing the 
 game, if you play this game once you prolly won't get much critical. 
  
  Weapons are generally all the same in the old RE game, they are there for a reason, don't be frustrated 
 when you are attack by 8 zombies, bring out your SMG or shotgun and let it rip. Some people found 
 it hard to do the reaction sequence, you should be glad there is only 4 possible sequence, and 
 that is A, B, A+B, or shake your wii mote, there are actually 7, the different is you gotta smash 
 or shake the button or wiimote, i dont recall they ask you to mash A+B in the game. 
  
  The reload was claim to cause alot of problem because it require you to shake your remote wildly. 
 However some smart fellow in the forum has found out you just need a little tap with your index 
 finger to reload which defeat this problems. 
  
  Overall, all the unlockable and weapons to unlock, and going for perfection is going to take at 
 less a week or two. Replay value is great to achieve higher rank, just think about those idiot 
 who paid millions of quarter to play rail shooter in the arcade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo_holic
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  I've always loved light gun games since Virtua Cop. So I was very excited when Capcom announced 
 RE: UC. When I opened the game case, the first impression I had was "WTF?! the game disc looks 
 like a pirated game disc" (just expressing my thoughts here, this was not put into the game evaluation) 
 It's a Umbrella corp's logo but instead of red and white, it is black and white...... Orz. Also, 
 I don't know if it's just me, the game froze twice while I was playing and I had to restart the 
 game.
  
  Anyway, I have not finished the game yet but so far I am impressed with the gameplay. However, 
 I'm not impressed with the graphics. I am not expecting Xbox360 or PS3 kind of graphic on Wii but 
 I think the graphic should at least be somewhat near RE4's graphic. Capcom could've done better 
 on the graphics. 
  
  Gameplay wise, it is pretty intense. Lots of zombies. The fun part is that you can even upgrade 
 your weapons! So far I've seen pistols, shotguns, machine guns, grenades, and rocket launchers. 
 (standard RE weapons) When playing co-op mode, the game sometimes requires both players to successfully 
 press certain buttons together to dodge an enemy's attack or perform some actions. So it is pretty 
 interactive. I would say the game is definitely a must get for light gun game lovers.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimi_13
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Short, the same thing over and over, I could see if it was randomized creatures and areas, but 
 it's just a repeat of itself, replayability is shot, I'd say rent it because you can beat it in 
 a weekend. 
  
  I guess I was hoping for more and it didn't live up to my expectations. 
  
  maybe they could do this off the rails, online and/or random levels, so you don't know what 
 you're going to expect.
  
  Cool things are all the weapons, nice sceenery and walkthrough of the old games. bit weak that 
 you have unlimited pistol.
  
  Take it easy.
  
  I guess if you find i
  
  Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerohour38
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil UC is a light gun game built exclusively for the Nintendo wii it is a collection 
 of resident evil games enchanted and remastered for the Nintendo wii. The game also features a 
 new scenario called Umbrella's End which has a good plot to it. The game includes missions from 
 Resident Evil zero, the first game and the third. Also to add along there are a few side missions 
 which should keep players busy after they have dealt with the main plot. Usually light gun games 
 can be completed within at least 40 minutes Resident Evil UC features at least 8 hours of play 
 along with at least 4 by going back and taking other roots in the level. Speaking of roots the 
 game sometimes will have the player decide which way he or she wishes to go one could be the easy 
 and the other he hard way. If you have played Resident Evil 4 you will remember the annoying button 
 mashing sequences which had you hitting the A button with in 3 seconds, Resident Evil UC has you 
 do the exact same thing you will get a warning when the button mashing will appear but these can 
 be short and screwing up could lose half your health you have been saving for that boss or worse 
 kill you instantly. Now what im talking about here is not just some bunch of remakes turned into 
 a light gun game it actually introduces new characters and never before seen locations in the series. 
 Finally for once we actually hear what happens to wesker in the first game and how he survives, 
 this is a good follow up to the story due to capcom leaving his survival in a plot hole. When you 
 aim with your guns in Resident Evil UC it has a state of the art aiming system with accurate response, 
 although the knife is a bit week especially as you will only use it a few times throughout each 
 scenario. The graphics are forgiving but could have been a lot better; it actually looks a lot 
 similar to the now elderly Resident Evil 4. The only bad things about Resident Evil UC are the 
 music it just doesn't capture the atmosphere and instead leaving annoying soundtracks. Speaking 
 of which the sound effects are good and capture the actions. If you like a good light gun game 
 or you just have a wii I would highly recommend this masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyzwain
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil is easily one of the most recognisable game in recent times. Starting in 1996, Resident 
 Evil has taken the horror genre in gaming by storm, and throughout it's 11 year history it's changed 
 the face of survival horror, and brought a new audience to gaming.
  With Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles, it's basis to several things. Its to appease the gamers 
 who want a re-make of the Resident Evil series, gives those new to Resident Evil a quick-guide 
 to it's history, and it brings in an adult audience to the Wii system. However for most casual 
 gamers it's simply a fun game that gives you scares and thrills much like a light-gun game shouldn't.
 
  
  So, light gun games and horror. It's not the best combination, as seen in The House of the Dead 
 series. The cheesy lines, the classic horror and awful acting brings back memories of those B-Movies 
 we all love to hate (pretty much like Marmite or Vegemite) . Yet Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles 
 and The House of the Dead should not be compared to each other, because they are two different 
 games.
  
  For instance the controls. You use the Nunchuk to move slightly across the screen, which is useful 
 to anticipate enemies around corners and to be look for all important health, ammo and files - 
 which are much associated with the Resident Evil series.
  
  Another difference is the levelling up of weapons. The weapon system allows you to increase weapon 
 ammo, capacity and power. Further into the game you get new weapons which can be upgraded and played 
 in any scenario.
  
  The game incoporates a system where items can be destroyed on screen. Items destroyed actually 
 make a difference between an A rank and a B rank. Again the ranking system is very familiar to 
 Resident Evil. The player can shoot doors to make it open faster, can choose which direction to 
 go, and can shoot objects like chandeleirs, barrels and cars that cause damage to the enemy.
  
  Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles projects fear into the player throughout the game. Little 
 difference such as the enemy appearing on screen suddenly, bursting through the door or jumping 
 through the window all make it a scary experience. The slow movement of the on-rail character also 
 adds fear, as it's the anticipation that creates the most tension.
  
  The life system in Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles features the typical life gauge in most games, 
 but comes with a unique Resident Evil twist. The herbs are used to restore life throughout the 
 level, whilst First-Aid Sprays are used when your life runs out. These all give a nod to the Resident 
 Evil series, and create more fear in the game itself. The best example is in the mansion, where 
 Hunters jump across and slash you, and yet the herb is so near it causes panic. My only criticism 
 is that all too often I've mistaken the herb for something else, and picked it up on full health 
 which is frustrating.
  
  The story-line does follow Resident Evil, and the narration by Wesker throughout the game gives 
 an insight to what happens betweeen the games. This is what Resident Evil fans wanted from the 
 game, and it provided informations that most fans would be guessing.
  
  There is also the addition of new levels in Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles. These new levels 
 include the new Umbrella HQ level, as well as levels that take you through the eyes of other characters. 
 For example, it takes you through the mansion as Rebecca with Richard Aikens, and you play as Wesker 
 through the Training Mansion. Each of these offer a new insight to the game, and give fans someting 
 extra.
  
  Overall the game has been a great experience. It may be a little biased because I'm a major Resident 
 Evil fan, but I have tried to be fair. Some negatives is that the game does not have a huge replayablility 
 factor. 
  The game does have co-op mode, but it restricts the players to the same levels. The game also becomes 
 increasingly frustrating, as certain parts need that extra herb or maybe more ammo. There are going 
 to be points in the game where you wish for these, but it takes sheer determination to get passed 
 these. Thankfully there are too few of these.
  
  Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles has lived up to what it said it would do. It gave the fans something 
 to chew whilst Resident Evil 5 is in the pipeline, and it made sure that those new to the series 
 could catch up with what they have missed the past 11 years. But Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles 
 also managed to turn the light-gun genre on it's head. With the fourth Resident Evil light-gun 
 style game, Capcom have finally made a game that everyone can love. A winning formula that can 
 only be improved, as there are still some minor issues. But the great gameplay and overall experience 
 overshadow these points, as Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles is one of the finest horror game 
 on the Wii and in the light-gun genre (which is easy enough done) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  So i can tell you the first time i played a resident evil game and i bought every single one there 
 was besides the gamecube ones so this game was a big thing and since i heard it was a rail shooter 
 it got me interested in what they could do to this. The Gameplay is like a typicle arcade rail 
 shooter youll shoot therew different moments in different resident evil games and they wiill throw 
 zombies spiders and other things at you and its just a blast it makes you feel like your rite there 
 but not controoling the person in the game you will also pick up ammo find and other things but 
 what makes me realy love this game was win i brought my friend in the game and we played from start 
 to finish and its just a fun experince. The sound has some of that cheezey resident evil diologe 
 wich makes it great in the game and the guns do sound good. the value theres not realy much after 
 you beat the game but for resident evil fans this is a most own
  
  The gameplay 8.5
  The sound 80
  graphics 8.5
  value 7.0
  presentation 9.0
  overall 8.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killip
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  Once again Another resident evil title hits a nintendo console. Only when it was heard that it 
 was an onrails lightgun game i'd be lying if i said i wasnt disappointed. Since 360 and ps3 were 
 gettin the awesome looking resi 5. But after getting 3/4 into the game ive got to say im pretty 
 impressed. You play threw resident evils 0 1 *sigh* (again...) and 3 plus the added senario with 
 chris and jill in russia and then theres a couple of extra senarios the main one being the highlight 
 of the game as well, Weskers storys. Weskers storyline shows you how he became the unhuman beast 
 he is now and how he does business right threw all the games. It turns out to be a really interesting 
 story and the main reason you should buy this game.
  
  Graphics: I'd say there a little bit better than resident evil 4. It is also nice to see resident 
 evil 3 get the make over. Over all i think graphics are great but not the best ive seen the wii 
 do.
  
  Sound: good soundtrack. terrible voice acting you'd think after 10 years the voice acting would 
 have got better.
  
  Gameplay: Lightgun with abit of personality. You can upgrade weapons, pick diffrent routes every 
 once and a while and you can do counter attacks of zombies. Not too bad but at the end of the day 
 its still a restricted on-rails shooter...
  
  Shitebox: Ffs why isnt resident evil 2 in this game its one of the best games in the series aand 
 it hasnt even been given a remake..... get it sorted Capcom. Even though you can do more in this 
 lightgun game than most it is still a restricted on-rails shooter. Crap voice acting. Annoying 
 in boss fights when you can't dodge attack's half the time. Playing threw resident evil 1 again!! 
 jesus christ how many more times do we have to play threw that mansion!.
  
  Overall: While i am dissapointed that it isnt a proper resi title. It has turned out to be a great 
 on-rails shooter which is fun. The Wesker storylines are brilliant and the little extras that make 
 it diffrent from other lightgun games. Its also 3 times longer than most lightgun games. If you 
 like resident evil i'd say buy it just for the Wesker bits alone, but this is a game that appeals 
 to frag freaks alike as well.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: capcom49
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  I'm a huge Resident Evil fan and I have been anticipating this game ever since I heard of it. Its 
 a rail shooter as like the House of the Dead series and delivers some fun features. You fight through 
 hordes of Umbrella's thought to be superior monsters and enjoy the fun ride through Resident Evil 
 maps throughout the games history. Destroying those valuable paintings, cars, typewriters, and 
 goods in each stage and finding weapons and files to expand your collection. This game is amazing 
 and has a very easy curve to learn and can be enjoyed by 2 players or by yourself. But to all good 
 things theres the bad and ugly, the bad is that the game is short, very short. I completed the 
 game in one day (12hrs 34 min) and the replay value is the same, finding files and weapons are 
 easy some stick out and are not hard to find. And the ugly is the unlockable features, unlimited 
 ammo is always fun to have but once you have it , its like "I know its there but I don't give". 
 And the mini game can easily get on your nerves. But to some up this game, its a great release 
 for the Nintendo Wii and can be enjoyed by family or friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H3AD-SH0T
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  This game has many great features, but I wouldn't recomend it for smaller kids. There are some 
 parts that can freak you out and make you jump. BE WARNED. But f your not scared easily then you 
 should try this game out. It is a difficult game, but don't give up easy, because once you get 
 past the part your stuck on you will feel like your the best. If you are unfermillier with the 
 series then this is a game game that will get you interested in it, because this game shortly covers 
 all of the past games and gives it a bit of a story of its own. Although this game is a bit different 
 from the others. The best part of this game would be the boss battles. They are pretty difficult 
 but they are fun, it might take a few times to beat it. Don't get discouraged. So try this game 
 out if you have some time. Keepit cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meeger5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 3:45 am PT
Review:  RE Umbrella Chronicles is simply an excellent game, and regardless that you have no ability to 
 move, doesn't mean that you shouldn't like this game. It follows the typical story line of the 
 RE games 0, 1 and 3, and a final level set. Now, unlike all the other RE games, you just need the 
 ability to shoot something with the Wiimote and what is an excellent edition to this game is the 
 Wii Blaster, an add-on somewhat of a docker that you can put your remote on and it will be like 
 actually shooting. It may be pretty short, but it gives you plenty of things to collect in the 
 missions but most of all is that you can select different difficulties that should give you plenty 
 of game time. This is the new REvolution in RE. Its not worth the 50 but wait and it will drop 
 but any RE fan should get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keymaster92
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil Umbrella Chronicles puts back the events of all 3 Resident Evil games. Here is the 
 review.
  
  Storyline-It was a great idea to put all 3 Resident Evils together plus Umbrellas stronghold into 
 this big game.
  
  Graphics-The graphics were pretty okay even though Capcom take a step behind Resident Evil 4.
 
  
  Framerates-Even though it was slow a few times in the game the rail shooter idea made the game 
 better.
  
  Visuals-The Character models were pretty good and the all the models for the monsters were pretty 
 awesome.
  
  Controls-Using the Wii Remote and Nunchuk make you feel like you are experiencing the horror in 
 the 3 games.
  
  Overall-Resident Evil Umbrella Chronicles makes a great rails on shooter. A 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genok
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 2:44 am PT
Review:  When i heard of this game, i was like "Wow, the Resident Evil story condensed in one game + the 
 end of umbrella, sounds great" well...... it does sound great, but it isnt, first of all, weres 
 RE2? Leon? hello..? the character of the best RE game, Capcom said, well lets put 0, 1 and 3, fu** 
 it, i mean, Capcom put a little tought, ok, so passed that, ok the graphics suck so much, mean, 
 i bougth this game with Super Mario Galaxy, big mistake, SMG looks gorgeous, and RE: UC well...... does 
 not, so for gameplay, its like killing zombies with you're mouse, headshots are hard, no fliying 
 chuncks of flesh like House of the Dead, the game is so plain, its dull, dont know how to discribe 
 it, im selling my copy and getting Guitar Hero 3 (putting another 50 bucks) , so for anybody how 
 wants to buy it, well its your money, but i would rent it, if you like RE, rent it, but i bet you, 
 when you play it, you'll feel empty inside =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: computerd2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil: The Umbrella Chronicles, is the next game in the RE series, feels more like Wesker's 
 Report, in a sense it fills in some plot holes spanning Resident Evil 0-3. Your choice of characters 
 are Chris Redfield, Jill Valentine, Ada Wong, Albert Wesker, Carlos, Rebecca, & Billy Coen. The 
 game plays a lot like Sega's House of the Dead series. The game does suffer from some flaws, like 
 reloading, enemies that give you no chance to react, etc. Overall the game is short, hardcore Resident 
 Evil fans will recognize the bosses & levels easily. I would rent this game, there is no replay 
 value whatsoever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merch
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  well i got this game and i have to say simply amiazing even though its a light gun game u still 
 get into it with the story elements added to it and its no 4 hour run in the park this game is 
 6 hours plus for all the conent of unlocking the extra levels by getting good scores upgrading 
 weapons and 3 difficulty modes its just too much to handle. 
  
  frames per second : well the game runs at 60 fps and there is some slow down but very minimal when 
 the character is turning in the racoon city level but its only been seen by me in 2 parts i dont 
 know if its the reaction of the character but i noticed a drop to 55 fps but it doesnt stop the 
 all out glory of this game.
  
  gameplay : its a rail light gun house of the dead shooter that is amaizingly long and challenging 
 at some moments like the boss fights ive only completed this game on easy and moving on to normal 
 but since every one knows who tryant and nemiss is ill talk about them if u dont get prepaired 
 to meet them when u play this game. on tyrant on easy i died 18 times before i barely killed him 
 he changes up his movement pattern. and nemises is just plain on hard but i beat him with a cm 
 of hp left the last boss on the other hand is horribly hard i wont spoil it for u so ya. right 
 so gameplay its a rail light gun u can move ur head alittle in all directions with the chuck and 
 u shoot with b and aim and reload by shaking the wiimote left and right.
  
  wiimote speaker: amaizing gun shots/gun cokking.
  
  graphics : some how it shocks me that capcom 
 went a step behind but i understand re4 is the next game lets keep it looking good. this games 
 graphics are equivlent to REmake for the cube but the videos are like re4. still for a light gun 
 game that feels great and lasts awhile i can not complain on the graphics.
  
  lighting is amaizing the subway level is pitch black and all u have is a gun some gernades and 
 a flash light on ur gun nuff said.
  
  difficulty is not for casual gamers but then agian since its pick up and shoot it is casual gamers 
 u will die many times but keep on fighting.
  
  ive spent 8 hours or more possably 9 on just easy with out doing the levels over so this game has 
 alot of kick in it to last me till christmas.
  
  this game isnt the best in the series but its up there with them of course re4 is the best in the 
 series since it was remade by capcom 3 times but thats capcom for u didnt they make street fighter 
 2 32 or 33 times already.
  oh and this game is worth every penny.
  
  christmas list will go in this review 
  1 super mario galaxy 50$
  2 resident evil umbrella 
 chronicles 50$
  3 resident evil 4 25$
  4 metroid prime 3 50$ or 40$
  5 any other game u want -- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJD-sin4profit
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2007 1:48 am PT
Review:  Though there is a good time to be had in shooting up some zombies, and it could be a convenience 
 in recapping the story from Zero to ResE 3, RE: UC frustrated the hell out of me more then anything.
 
  
  The gameplay is made up mostly of shooting zombies / various monsters and attack pattern fallowing 
 bosses. Though, the atmosphere in this game is great and looks good for the Wii, it's the little 
 frustrations that plague this game throughout it's course and keep it from having any real great 
 moments. 
  
  The controls are poorly implemented as you fumble with cycling through empty guns in search of 
 the one you want. Sometimes the controls don't feel responsive, at all, when preforming "timed" 
 actions, such as shaking off a zombie or in timed reaction moments where shaking the Wiimote only 
 seems to work "when it feels like it". Even in the main meat of the game, shooting stuff, the camera 
 shakes and moves to represent a realistic first person perspective but just distracts you throughout. 
 It's like two people trying to play a FPS with one controller... one guy using the movement stick, 
 the other using the aiming stick... frustrating. You can control you view to a small extent with 
 the numbchuck but it felt fairly worthless and only served to give you an extra inch effort to 
 shoot an item that the camera is panning away from. Accuracy in "critical shots" seem like they 
 have to be real dead on and illogical for the most part. Rather then shooting a zombie right between 
 the eyes or dead center in the forehead it feels more like you have to skim the bullet right off 
 the top of his head to get a critical shot... it's not impossible but it does feel like luck when 
 you factor in the uncontrolled camera movement.
  
  The boss battles are really what dragged this game down for me. Most of them seem to be a trail 
 and error process as it's hard to tell on a lot of them what you're suppose to be shooting at. 
 "Shoot him in the mouth", she says... WHICH mouth? ... This dude was MADE of mouthes, i swear!!! 
 Ya just shoot randomly at the things hoping ya hit the right spot at times which seem to randomly 
 work the way you want them to. Then ya have the damned "reaction timing" moments... i freakin hate 
 those in games but at least in other games the button patterns are somewhat logical representing 
 things like attack, defense, or jump. But in RE: UC when the reaction moment comes it can be any 
 of 4 random combinations and you just pray to god it's not the selectively working "shake the Wiimote" 
 motion.
  
  All in all If you've missed out on the Resident Evil series in the past and want a quick catch 
 up on the main story ( From RE: Zero to RE: 3) for the sake of playing the current high quality 
 Resident Evil games, then this game could be an amusing rental for ya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilmaster72
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 10:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is basically your standard on rails shooter with some minor improvements in control and 
 functionality. Being able to pan the camera slightly helps to increse vision or pick up items and 
 the option to go different paths at certain parts of levels is a nice addition. Playing this game 
 does little for the main protagnasts in the series except for the new chapter that although exciting 
 seems somehow distant from the usual formula for a resident evil game. All new information is either 
 given in the extra levels of the game or in random files scattered through every map. One other 
 thing that seemed disappointing to me was how capcom stole parts of the games from the movies. 
 
  Things stolen from movies:
  1. Holographic maps of facilities (all movies)
  2. Laser hall way (1st + 3rd movies)
  3. Red and White Queen (1st + 3rd movies)
  
  I think 
 thats it for rip offs. (Im a fan of the movies and games)
  Although the levels based off previous games have changed the progression through the game the 
 use of motion sensitivity and not being able to back away from fears makes it an interesting addition 
 to the resident evil franchise. I'd suggest this game to all resident evil fans with a Wii either 
 to discover something new or just to relive the previous resident evil games in a new way. (although 
 the new style may cause anger among vetrans of the series) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akel777
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  If you want a deep light gun experience for the Wii, this is it. You can run through it single 
 player or add a buddy and adjust difficulty levels to extend replay value. It's very hard to catch 
 everything, as there are lots of hidden items to find and some of them only give you a split second 
 to grab. This game is also pretty hard (even on normal) . The first scenario is easy as it's a tutorial, 
 but after that, you'll find yourself dying a quite a bit, especially on your first run through. 
 
  
  So if you are looking for a challenge, zombie killing, or some good 2player coop, then this is 
 a good choice. If you aren't much interested in light gun games or resident evil, then a rental 
 may be in order. But if you love resident evil and light gun games, this is a definite buy! Show 
 your support of Capcom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TarkatanWarrior
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 2:38 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil FPS's haven't been that great. Okay, so that's an understatement, they've been terrible. 
 That being said I had very little faith that Umbrella Chronicles would be any better, but when 
 my Resident Evil crazy friend picked it up on the first day it came out, and dragged me over to 
 play it with him, my view was completely changed.
  
  any issues within Umbrella Chronicles are overlooked simply because the game is 100% fun. Slightly 
 dodgy enviroments, and frustrating one hit kills aside, the game is near perfect for playing with 
 anyone, resident evil fan or not.
  
  The controls, while simple, are one of the best things about the game, allowing anyone to pick 
 it up and play it. While the wii Zapper is actually a burden with this game, it does add a little 
 to the gameplay.
  
  The standout thing about Resident Evil Umbrella Chronicles is the fact that everything from the 
 past games is present. Perfect placements of green herbs, ammo, and enemies make for an extremely 
 enjoyable experience for any resident evil fans.
  
  I've never really enjoyed regular resident evil games before, but this game stands out as one of 
 the best shooters, and games in general that I've played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil The Umbrella Chronicles for the Wii
  
  The Good- Nice wii controls, sharp graphics
  
  The Bad- To short, not what alot of people probly 
 expected
  
  Gameplay- 7/10 There are three main levels in this game and then bonus areas, each area covers 
 Resident Evil 0,1,3 preety much with the main boss fights and such. The gameplay has you using 
 your wii mote or wii zapper to kill enemies as the screen moves on its own old school style. Theres 
 no characters being viewed except on cut scenes and no weapons being shown either, real bummer! 
 The areas are focused on time spent, things to shoot, bonus stuff you collect, shots hit and critical 
 hits. All giving you your total. Preety basic and preety bland, not to mention the nunchuck does 
 nothing but let you look around which is basically done on its own anyway so feels kinda useless 
 it most ways to even us it. It does let you reload switch weapons and such but there always more 
 then 1 way to do those things. 
  
  Graphics- 8/10 preety sharp graphics and preety creepy at times, I hate spiders!
  
  Sound- 
 7/10 most of the sound is sharp and all but none of its creepy or shocking in any way, which this 
 type of game should have.
  
  Storyline- 7/10 it covers 3 games in 3 short playthroughs so you be the judge as I never played 
 all the originals this offers.
  
  Extra material and Replay Value 9/10 at least the game offers extras which add on to the resident 
 evil story.
  Gameplay x3 
  Graphics x2
  Sound x2
  Storyline x2
  Extra's and Reply x1
  
  Overall- 77 out of 100 for a total of 7.5
  This review is short, 
 I know thats because theres not much to say. The game is a basic shooter nothing like the other 
 Resident evil games and is so short you could beat it in a whole days sitting. I was hoping for 
 a great RE game to come to wii like RE4 remake was but sadly looks like I got to buy that PS3 for 
 the RE5, still chris? ewww wheres the ladies lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danicol
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks! trust me and playing this game co-op is to awesome..! I always play this game..! 
 But sometimes is to hard ... Im in raccon city..!: D Umbrella Chronicles must buyit if you are a 
 RE fan..! you Start at RE zero and you finish in rusia but im still in RE 3 sow i dont now how 
 is rusia This game rocks! trust me and playing this game co-op is to awesome..! I always play this 
 game..! But sometimes is to hard ... Im in raccon city..!: D Umbrella Chronicles must buyit if you 
 are a RE fan..! you Start at RE zero and you finish in rusia but im still in RE 3 sow i dont now 
 how is rusia 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TITROTU
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  Wow, talk about one great game. When this game was first announced, I was a little skeptical about 
 it because I was one of the unlucky people who had high hopes for Gun Survivor. That aside, once 
 I got my hands on the game, I was blown away. What's so great about this game? Pure action. No 
 puzzles to solve, no back tracking, no long boring cut scenes, nothing but pure zombie shoot outs.
 
  
  First off, let me get this out of the way. The Wii Zapper sucks. Trust me, it doesn't make the 
 game any better. In fact, the way you're supposed to hold it is uncomfortable and it really puts 
 a cramp on your hand. Besides, if you're just buying the Zapper to get that Zelda game that comes 
 with it, it's not worth it. And that's coming from me, one of the biggest Zelda fans around.
  
  Anyway, this game is basically Resident Evil in a nutshell. If you didn't have the time to 
 play through all the other games in the series just to get what's going on with the story, this 
 game sums it up pretty well. The levels are broken down to chapters, each chapter covering a different 
 game. Each chapter is then broken down to three levels. Although I was a little sad when I found 
 out that Resident Evil: Code Veronica and Resident Evil 4 weren't included, the game makes up for 
 it by having two exclusive stories not featured in any of the games.
  
  While the game isn't long compared to other RE games, (about 8 hours if you breeze right through 
 it) it's a hell of a lot of fun. The controls are easy to pick up and the levels are modeled straight 
 from the games, so you'll feel right at home when playing.
  
  All in all, if you're a RE fan, or even a fan of light-gun games such as Time Crisis and House 
 of the Dead, you'll love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demental81
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS A MUST BUY, SO IF YOU BUY IT GET THE STATEGY GUIDE WITH IT, IT MAKES THE EXPERINCE BETTER.
 
  THIS GAME DOES BRING BACK OLD MEMORYS THAT SPAN WAY BACK IN THE 90'S. OLD MEMORYS OF US YOUNG 
 SELVES PLAYING THE RESIDENT EVIL SERIES ON THE SONY PLAYSTATION.
  THIS GAME HAS ALL SORTS OF EVENTS FROM RESIDENT EVIL ZERO, R. E. 1, R. E.2, AND R. E.3 ( NO VIRONICA 
 ) .
  THIS IS THE FAR BEST RAIL SHOOTER IVE EVER PLAYED AND MY FAVORITE WAS THE TIME CRISES ARCADE SERIES.
 
  THIS GAME HAS AWSOME GRAPHICS FOR THE WII COUNSEL.
  SINCE ITS MOVING FOR YOU IN GAMEPLAY ( WHICH IS RAIL ) YOU STILL GET TO MOVE YOUR VEIW AROUND WITH 
 THE NUNCHUCK AND USE THE WII-MOTE AS YOUR GUN. IF YOUR NOT CONFTORBLE WITH THE CONTROLLS YOU CAN 
 GO TO BUTTON CONFIGURATION WITH-IN THE GAMES OPTIONS. THIS GAME HAS GOOD SOUND YOU CAN HEAR THE 
 BULLETS CASEINGS HIT THE GROUND AFTER YOU FIRE, AND THE CHARATER VOICE ACTING IS NOT CHEASY AT ALL 
 LIKE THE PREVIOUS GAMES. THIS GAME HAS ALOT OF ENIMIES AND DIFFERENT ZOMBIES WOMEN, COPS, BLACK 
 GUYS, NAKED ZOMBIES, WE GOT THE DOGS, CROWS, AND SLIMY LEECHES , AND WASP ALL SORTS OF BADDIES 
 AWAIT. RIGHT NOW IM HALF THROUGH WITH THE GAME, STILL TRYING TO GRAB ALL FILES AND GET AN -S- RANKING 
 ON ALL MY SENARIOS BEFORE I MOVE ON TO THE NEXT SET OF SENARIOS. ( THATS HOW CAPCOM WOULD LIKE 
 US TO PLAY THE GAME ) .
  THIS GAME TAKES SOME WII-MOTE POINTING SKILLS, LIKE ON ZOMBIES THEY HAVE A CRITICAL HIT WHICH KILLS 
 THEM IN ONE SHOT AND YES ITS GOT GORE. SO AIM THE WII POINTER ON SCREEN OVER THE ZOMBIES HEAD AND 
 WHEN YOUR TARGET STARTS TO FLASH RED THATS THE WEAKSPOT. SO PUT THE BULLET IN THE BRAIN FOR ONE 
 KILL CRITICAL SHOTS. ASLO A GREAT THING ABOUT THIS GAME IS ALMOST EVERYTHING IS DESTUCTABLE, YOU 
 CAN BREAK THINGS OR SHATTER A WHOLE ROOM FULL OF THINGS WITH A GRENADE.
  AND FOR WEAPONS THE WEAPON YOU ARE AUTOMATICLY ASSIGNED WITH IS A S. T. A. R. S. CUSTOM GUN AND THEY 
 HAVE INFINITE AMMO BUT YOU STILL HAVE TO RELOAD. AND WHEN YOU DO RELOAD YOU CAN HEAR IT GUN COCKING 
 FROM THE REMOTE SPEAKER 
  SO TURN THAT UP ALL THE WAY.
  AND FOR OTHER WEAPONS WHICH ARE CALLED YOUR SECONDARY WEAPONS, WELL YOU GET TO PICK THAT GUN AND 
 UNLOCK OTHER GUNS AND UPGRADE YOUR GUNS. SO GUNS GUNS GUNS.....
  THIS IS AN OVER ALL GREAT GAME SO BUY IT, I THINK I COULD BE A CLASSIC TO HAVE 7 YEARS FROM NOW.
 
  SO ENJOY IT AND REMEMBER,
  
  ---------------- !!!!!! play it loud!!!! -----------------
  
  -demental- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gatzmyer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  The Resident Evil franchise has seen it's share of remakes and retelling, and if you're looking 
 for an original story it won't be found here. Umbrella Chronicles is essentially a compacted version 
 of the pre-Resident Evil 4 games. You'll make your way through many familiar areas and stories 
 but in a new light and from a different perspective. It is a rail shooter so of course you don't 
 have much of a say in what you do next but it does offer some, if not many, alternate paths. The 
 action is pretty much non stop and there are a great number of different enemy types so you won't 
 be just popping heads off of slow moving corpses, you'll fight leeches, bees, giant spiders, crazed 
 monkeys, and of course the rabid dogs as well as many other living dead creatures. The boss fights 
 are massive as they should be and you'll find yourself wishing you had more ammo for your best 
 guns. 
  
  Unlike the originals you won't find yourself running out of bullets because your handgun has unlimited 
 ammo. You will also find bigger and better guns throughout the game which can be upgraded with 
 stars you earn from completing missions. There are plenty of missions to unlock and tons of stuff 
 to find in each level. At the end of the mission you are graded in five categories including: enemies 
 killed, objects destroyed, files found, time elapsed, and critical hits. The critical hits are 
 tough to come by and are one of my few complaints. There does not seem to be much of way to distinguish 
 what makes a critical hit and when you do get one it's entirely random. This will hardly keep you 
 from enjoying the game though.
  
  Umbrella Chronicles is a great game that I would recommend to any Wii owner, the story is mostly 
 rehash but it does a good job of making it fresh and adding new content to the story with un-lockable 
 side quests. It controls flawlessly and is exactly the type of game that the Wii does best. A fun 
 game that can be played with a friend, ( The entire game can be played co-op.) that has excellent 
 controls and tons of replay value. There are three different and distinct difficulty levels so 
 everyone can see this through to the end. If you're new to the Resident Evil franchise or just 
 never cared for the old tank style controls of the original this is your chance to play a great 
 game and get into the history of the franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stouph99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  This is a great game that keeps doing what works well for the Resident Evil franchise. They don't 
 mess it up, but rather keep the atmosphere and feel of Resident Evil. So all you hardcore Resident 
 Evil enthusiasts will feel right at home.
  
  This game is soo awesome with the Wii Zapper. It's extremely easy to play, there are like 3 buttons... 
 B (Zapper trigger finger) is shoot, Z on the nunchuk is the action button and C is the change weapon 
 button. And the nunchuk stick is for looking around. So basically it's just straight up point and 
 shoot all the time! 
  
  I'm a little peeved at finding a few lags and glitches in the game play... but nothing major. It's 
 hardly noticeable. And I would have rather been able to control the movement forward. I don't mind 
 the game being on rails, but I wish we could control the forward movement with the nunchuk control 
 stick. Because sometimes you don't have time to explore your surroundings and the game is pushing 
 you on and it's annoying.
  
  But all in all this game rocks!! I recommend to all Resident Evil fans and especially to all who 
 have the Wii Zapper or are thinking of getting it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mctooth
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicals is a fun game for hardcore gamers as well as those who are new 
 to on-rails shooters or any kind of survival horror game. Its a must for any wii owner looking 
 for a captivating shooter that is potentially very challenging depending on what difficulty setting 
 one plays it on. To put the cherry on top of the cake, the great co-op play mode makes playing 
 the game even more hectic and enjoyable. Obviously, I recommend this game to anyone and everyone 
 (except small children of course) . !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  
  !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
  !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkneoxerosk8r
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 23, 2007 12:11 am PT
Review:  This is a fun game for those who enjoy light-gun games and rail shooters. Since it is a light-gun 
 game, it's expected that the story should be pretty shallow in lieu of great gameplay. However, 
 there are three detrimental flaws in this game which serve only to irritate the casual gamer, and 
 even the veteran who's trying to rack up extras. 
  First, there is an issue with the Z button on the Nunchuck. Since it doubles as the A button for 
 those who use the Zapper, it's the button you're forced to use. The frustration kicks in when tapping 
 the A button during one of those oh so lovable timed button presses. Shaking or pressing B is fine, 
 but for the Z button, there is either a lag time for information to be sent from the Nunchuck to 
 the Wii remote, due to the Nunchuck's peripheral nature, or it is necessary to mash down on the 
 Z button very hard just to evoke a response. Upon discovering this annoying flaw, I pressed the 
 A button during a timed button press, and after redo after redo with the horrid Z button, I was 
 successful instantly. Nonetheless, during boss battles, one doesn't have time to reach up onto 
 the Zapper and press A. 
  The second flaw is related to reloading. Capcom could have simply chosen the "shoot off screen" 
 reload, but instead, they require you to shake the controller violently to reload. Seems easy on 
 paper, but it fails miserably in practice. Having to jerk my hand swiftly every time I want to 
 manually reload seems more like a hassle to me.
  The third flaw involves the critical hit feature. The reticle shows a blinking red dot when you're 
 lined up on the correct spot, but in most fights, there's no time to find that spot when eight 
 zombies are slowly shuffling towards you. It seemed to be easier to get a critical hit on Resident 
 Evil 4.
  All in all, it's a pretty good game. There's fun to be had here, but no one should expect anything 
 remotely close to Resident Evil 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aduana69
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is + -  not any thing spectacluar. 
 The wii zapper made the game very fun, worth buying if ur a fan of shooting. this game was super 
 fun but not amazing. 
  
  The graphics are good but nothing great. Then again you know the wiis restricted potential even 
 if they como with a new control.
  
  The sound was pretty good. it wasnt perfect but it was good enough for a wii game. the sounds better 
 than a lot some games that I have played this past year but it wasnt anything great aboout. The 
 sound was good though.
  
  The best part of re. is the replay value if you wnt to play with firends but alone after a while 
 it can get pretty boring. Thats the reason I like better xbox 360, then PS3 and at the end wii. 
 to bad for nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paperlugi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  Been there done that you might say. But there are those out there, like myself, who may have had 
 difficulty getting through the original games. Don't get me wrong, I love Resident Evil, and I 
 wanted to know what was going on in this crazy world. But I could never grasp the controls. Now, 
 thanks to the Umbrella Chronicles, I have a chance to run through ever thing I couldn't before.
 
  Umbrella Chronicles offers what every Resident Evil game has offered, gore and blood. A simple 
 rundown of the old stuff with some new (infected monkeys?) , gives the player a fast paced first 
 person-shooter any Resident Evil fan would enjoy. 
  Unfortunately, Umbrella Chronicles lacks my favorite Resident Evil characteristic. You never get 
 to find yourself tiptoeing through a narrow hallway horrified of what might come, CRASH zombies 
 jumping through the windows. Plus there are no eccentric puzzles. Basically, you never feel safe, 
 so you can't fear being unsafe.
  Nevertheless, I love the idea. Umbrella Chronicles has a lot to offer most. So if you are a first 
 timer, who wants to get into, this game is perfect to catch you up. If you are like me, and can't 
 grasp the concept of holding up all the time to walk, well here is your chance. And of course, 
 for all those die hard fans, you just may learn some new things about he Resident Evil universe. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaber2525
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  A great game for the Wii. Graphics were better than most Wii games. Dialog was okay. Would have 
 preferred RE4 like play but the on rails experience is great with the Wii controller. The Wii Zapper 
 is hard to get used to, awkward and it was easier to use the remote and nunchuck instead. Some 
 of the levels were hard and others were short and easy. Overall a good experience that was a whole 
 lot of fun and was very challenging at some parts. Also a good addition to the resident evil series. 
 Can't wait for Resident Evil 5. Hope it is worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaNemesis28
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 11:10 pm PT
Review:  The game can go either way even for an RE fan. I'll be here to explain why.
  
  I'll tell you right off the bat don't listen to the GS review they have for RE: UC. They havent 
 even played RE0 or I dont think any of them as a matter of fact. I believe this because of their 
 On The Spot Show before the game came out, they had remarks about the RE0 run like "Why is there 
 a scorpion on the train? I guess we'll have to play RE0 then."
  
  I am not only a die hard fan of RE but also a die hard fan of the rail shooter genre and this is 
 NO let down. Hell, Capcom - NEWSFLASH - get an arcade version NOW and makes $$$$$$ cause this would 
 probably blow out the arcades if you sped it up a little bit.
  
  Even though I am a die hard RE fan, this game like I said can go either way. There are many reasons 
 for this and I'll go through them step by step. I'll try to not spoil.
  
  First, let's start with gameplay. Fun and awsome. NOT scary which was a letdown. The game has it's 
 "boo" moments but nothing scary at ALL. Hell, half the gore was removed. Example - of one the best 
 RE moments was seeing Tyrant blow up at the end of RE1. In RE: UC, at the end of the RE1 run - he 
 does NOT blow up. Aside from that, it's a rail shooter. If you're an RE fan, you'll love it regardless 
 if its a rail shooter or a migrain puzzle game. If you love rail shooters you'll love the game 
 too.
  
  The game lets you roam around a little with the nunchuk but honestly - it's not a whole lot. The 
 game goes SLOW, even when parts when you think,"Hey buddy, if you're gunna run from a pack of zombies 
 and not kill them.... Run! Don't crawl away!" It's that long, Capcom wanted to draw the game out 
 pretty long.
  
  Second, the graphics are pretty awesome. I have to say Capcom really did a great job re mastering 
 those classic RE enemies and backgrounds. What really impressed me was the variety of zombies. 
 I mean sure - most of the time they repeat the same clothes and faces over and over but there definatly 
 has been a significant improvement here. The lighting is awesome and the textures are pretty sleek. 
 Though, the Wii doesn't handle it all too well. For example, significant FPS drops in the boiler 
 room in the RE1 run. There was alot of steam and lighting effects going on there. Another good 
 drop was when you were in the main hall of the training facility in RE0 run when alot of monsters 
 storm the room.
  
  Third, the plot is of course great and always will be in the RE franchise. It's hard for Capcom 
 to screw up once they did RE4. Everything is in-depth. I was glad how Capcom kept all, most of 
 them anyways, rooms and hallways connected just like the original games. Going from room to hall 
 to room, I can remember most being there. And the ones I dont, I know they werent actually there 
 but some place else. Example would be in the RE1 run, the elevator hall wasn't where it was supposed 
 to be, ect. Not too much of a biggy, and they did decent on it.
  
  Something I was kind of upset about was the link of events. I mean, for new comers playing the 
 game won't have a clue if they think they will play RE: UC and then go play something like RE3. 
 It ain't happening because everything is nuts. I mean, we all know in RE1 - Jill and Chris did 
 not go together. One or the other was in jail. And big question - WTF happened to Barry?! My main 
 man Barry is GONE. GONE DUDE! You don't see him once! I was prepared to laugh at the infamous "Jill 
 Sandwhich" punch line.
  
  Fourth, sound. HORRIBLE. Putrid. Seriously, I know I sound like a stickler.... but nothing goes. 
 Capcom is amazing when it comes to sound but what the hell happened with this game? Every RE game 
 has had an amazing soundtrack (own everyone one of them) but this one FAILS. If they release the 
 CD for this, I ain't getting it. Sorry. The sound doesn't fit anywhere in the game. Also there 
 is no bass or depth to the sound either. Trust me - I swapped from RE: UC to Time Crisis 4 on the 
 same TV and sound system and my ears shattered when I heard Time Crisis 4. I turned the bass on 
 MAX for RE: UC and nothing rumbled or shook. Just empty sound which stunned me.
  
  One of the key things to a remake or a recap of a video game are the voice actors. I'm not going 
 to make a big fuss out of it because it's been how many years since these games where made? Still, 
 Capcom should keep a blackbook with phone #s and checks of voice actors. Chris sounds like a pansy, 
 Carlos sounds like a 40 year old steroid guy, and Rebbecca sounds like my 6 year old cousin. Hell 
 - even the fact that they couldn't get Brad "Chicken" Vicker's voice actor bad made me sad.
  
  I really love the references to the other games Capcom left out. For example, in the RE3 run 
 - you go through some RE: Outbreak scenes. Hell, even the zombies look exactly like the ones from 
 RE: Outbreak which is pretty cool. Other references that really made me laugh and impressed me where 
 the ones like "The Red Queen". For those who don't know, she's kind of the "antagonist" of the 
 RE movie.
  
  Overall, the game is somewhat highly flawed but again for RE fans or rail shooter fans this is 
 a MUST. I garuntee. For any spots you didnt know about before hand are filled right in. You won't 
 be disapointed.
  
  Capcom - my hat is off to you.
  
  PS
  THANK YOU FOR BRINGING MY NEMY INTO NEXT-GEN 3D LIKE IN MY DREAMS!!!!!! 
  Next thing I need is 
 a remake from you guys and my life is set. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grapefruit21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  I have never had a bigger adrenaline rush in a game than I had with RE: UC. This game will have 
 on the literal edge of your seat. This is the best light gun game I have ever played. My only gripes 
 with it are: 1. the context sensitive controls can be spotty 2. The graphics could be better on 
 the Wii 3. NOT ENOUGH AMMO. While the cut scenes are very nice as well as all the charachter models 
 the environments are the most lacking graphically. I just expect a on rails game to look extremely 
 good since there isn't much to render. All in all it is a great looking game. 
  This game is not played to its full until you have a friend at your side playing with you. This 
 game is amazingly fun in co-op. I have never had more fun in any FPS than I had playing this game 
 for about 6 hours straight with 5 of my friends. 
  I would recommend this game for anyone because it is the best on rail shooter available thus the 
 9.5. In the old system I'd have given 
  gameplay: 10
  graphics: 9
  sound: 10 ( the sound effects on the striker were amazing)
  value: 10 ( for a rail shooter)
 
  tilt: 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fanatic_andreas
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 6/10
  Too be honest, the Gamecube version of RE4 had more polish. It's almost like they mistook gritty 
 style for a license to poorly light the entire game (which very rarely makes the game scarier, 
 as the only monsters who actually become harder to see are human zombies) with maybe two flashlight 
 sequences, and of course if the whole game is dark, we don't have to worry about high resolution 
 textures right guys? Characters and monsters look OK (once again not as good as RE4) , but the new 
 areas and bad guys are bland and uninspired. Overall disappointing, but it could be worse i suppose.
 
  
  Controls: 9/10 
  For some reason the game and the zapper didn't come out at the same time, so i can't really weigh 
 in on how it handles, but other than that the controls are pretty responsive. The interactive cut-scenes 
 seem somewhat forced in some instances, like this one where the screen flashes (you're warned when 
 there's an interactive cut scene now) and a dog leaps at you, and you either press A, B, A+B, or 
 wag the remote to dodge it. Excuse me but i just killed put down 3 leaping demon dogs, what makes 
 this one worthy of a cut scene?
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  Shooting zombies is still fun. They could have done much more with the concepts of body part specific 
 damage (there's basically knee-leg shots to slow them, chest shots to kill them in about 10 pistol 
 rounds, and head shots to kill them in only 8) and critical hits though. When you mouse (remote) 
 over a zombie's head, the cross hair blinks to tell you its a critical zone, but in reality, you 
 only get a critical if you shoot a zombie in a certain spot in the forehead and his head explodes 
 (it only works on zombies and crimson heads, seems to be exclusive to the pistol, and even if you're 
 aim is dead on it still seems to be a 1 in 10 chance.) My biggest complaint here is that they made 
 the shooting arcade-y in appearance, with none of the arcade fun and feel; there's no satisfying 
 gore sound when you shoot the zombies, but rather an artificial clang noise. There's no muzzle 
 flare, but it is a light-gun game so thats just an unsatisfied preference on my part. There are 
 no tracer rounds, not to help with aiming or anything, but they just add to the oomph from my perspective. 
 The destructable environment is a welcome feature, but special umbrella files are found in the 
 most random places; "Shoot out the precious light you need to see for the 1 in 20 chance there 
 might be an umbrella file on BRAD VICKERS! WOO!" There's also an inconsistency between the difficulty 
 of certain monsters and bosses. Put a zombie down in 8 pistol rounds, a hunter in 3, and a boss 
 in about 2000 (don't get me wrong, bosses should be hard, I'm just saying) . Nice selection of weaponry, 
 somewhat shallow upgrade system.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  Already made my complaints about the gun sounds. Monster sounds are pretty good. Voice acting is 
 worthy of the Resident Evil series but there seem to be a few minor glitches and translation issues. 
 For example; Nemesis is still alive, Jill exclaims: "Seems that way!" followed by Carlos "Looks 
 like he's back!". Music is hit and miss, some of the songs are great and appropriate to the situation, 
 some aren't.
  
  Value: 8/10
  Very easy to pick up and play. Fun with a friend. Kind of short, definitely room on the disc for 
 a RE2, RE Code: Veronica bonus missions. It's interesting to hear Wesker's side of the story, but 
 doesn't really answer the questions I hoped it would; basically just says "Wesker abandoned Umbrella, 
 and there was a Russian base". Documents/Files will add some replay value to Resident Evil fans.
 
  
  Conclusion:
  Buy it (I'd recommend waiting for a pre-owned) if you're a huge Resident Evil fan, rent it if you're 
 not.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noct
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Let me just say up front that I had a large amount of skepticism about this incarnation of RE from 
 the get-go. I know Japanese gamers have had a taste of this style of zombie blasting mayhem before 
 in their Gun Survivor titles, but for most US gamers (myself included) , those titles barely made 
 a blip on the radar. Until recently I personally did not even know that they existed. I was not 
 expecting much more here then a House of the Dead clone with a couple of zombie dogs thrown in, 
 and while the obvious comparisons between the two games can surely be made, UC has a lot more going 
 for it then HotD ever did.
  
  I should also mention that on top of being a huge RE fan, I am a RABID zombie movie fanatic. I 
 worship George Romero, I idolize Tom Savini, and (while I would have eventually anyway,) I bought 
 an Xbox360 the week Dead Rising came out just so I could play it. If that and the photo of Simon 
 Pegg (Shaun) staring at me from the desktop under this web browser aren't enough indication, I 
 do love the Zeds.
  
  Point being, while I will certainly try to remain as objective as humanly possible in this review, 
 the very concept of being in zombieland probably thrills me a bit more then your average person, 
 so take that as you will.
  
  With that said, know that I really like this game, and I'm having a great time playing it with 
 friends. There is nothing particularly innovative about the title, and apart from a few nice weapon 
 customization options and a tiny bit of play to the camera through the analog stick, this game 
 is exactly what you've played several times before, an on-rails light-gun style shooter.
  Essentially, this is just Duck Hunt, but the ducks are infected with a rage inducing man-made virus 
 that has turned them into rapidly-decaying blood-hungry, flesh-craving monsters. Oh, and the dog 
 isn't on your side this time either, he's trying to eat your face.
  
  To be honest, early into the game I was a bit let down. The first few levels are a bit drab, and 
 some bits are so lackluster in color that it actually begins to look like the game is in black 
 and white. Couple that with the fact that I was still getting used to holding my newly purchased 
 "Zapper" peripheral, and I really wasn't having all that great of a time at first, but in hopes 
 that it would improve as it went, I pressed on.
  
  As the game progressed a few things started to happen. For one thing, once I finished the first 
 level/area, the locations and enemies started to become much more recognizable, and a lot more 
 exciting to blow holes in.
  
  The first level does an adequate job of easing you into the game, but it is a pretty dull location 
 overall. It is very grey in color, has a few segments featuring very little action, and certain 
 sequences that are so drab and dark that it can be a bit hard to make out the details of the objects 
 that are not right in front of you. To be fair, I did not think much of the level following it 
 either, but things rapidly ramped up after that.
  
  If you can trudge through the first few areas you will find the rest of the game to be much more 
 enjoyable overall. The locations start to get way more colorful, and the whole game starts to feel 
 a lot more like a true RE title.
  
  Overall this incarnation of RE still features a bit too much animal wrangling for my tastes; shooting 
 zombie dogs is one thing and the occasional giant spider I can deal with, but fending off waves 
 of albino gorillas, vampire bats, killer leeches, sharks (?) , and snakes that hunt in packs is not 
 what I play RE for. Do we not have enough monsters in our collective pop culture pool that the 
 devs could draw from? Where are the werewolves, creatures from black lagoons and chupacabras? Heck, 
 I'd settle for a demonically possessed baby-wets-alot doll over a killer leech any day.
  
  As you play on the zombies do come though, and they come in droves. Often times there are far too 
 many of them on the screen to adequately deal with, (even with two players) , but it makes the game 
 much more tense and exciting because of it. You do have other tools at your disposal better suited 
 for dealing with large groups of the dead then your handgun though. You are given a choice of a 
 secondary weapon at the start of each level and you can pick up heavier weaponry as you go, plus 
 the game makes grenades readily available, as well as the pre-requisite exploding red barrels. 
 At times there are some environmental objects you can employ to do your dirty work as well, such 
 as randomly placed mines on the ground and the gas tanks of various cars, but in most cases your 
 survival is largely up to how well you can rapidly take enemies down in succession between reloads.
 
  
  This brings up one of my main complaints with the title actually. Much like most shooters these 
 days, the enemies in UC have a sweet spot you can hit that will drop them in one shot (generally 
 blowing their head off in the process) . This is a great idea, and the developers clearly assumed 
 players would be doing it, as indicated by the occasions where you'll get thrashed by an enemy 
 if you don't drop him/her in a matter of seconds. The problem here lies in that this sweet spot 
 is tough enough to hit if the zed is standing still, much less when it's charging at you and your 
 teammate is unloading a dozen plus bullets into it.
  
  Your targeting reticule has a visual indicator to show you when you're over the spot, but more 
 often then not you can barely see it since your teammates reticule will be often be over the same 
 basic area at the time.
  
  While on the subject, the reticule itself is just way too big. The devs decided to use it to display 
 information to the player by keeping a visual count of your bullets in a ring around the gun's 
 sight. It's one of those "sounded good on paper" type of ideas, as it is horribly obtrusive, and 
 I for one would much rather just look to the side of the screen to see my ammo count.
  
  On top of how obtrusive this reticule is, it is often very confusing to tell whose targeting icon 
 is whose if you are playing with a friend.
  The game issues one player a red targeting icon and the other player a blue, but as you start to 
 near the end of your clip the icon flashes red to warn you of this and it becomes rapidly hard 
 to discern whose reticule is whose in the heat of combat.
  
  The only other complaint I really have is the inclusion of the now standard button pressing segments 
 that they have crowbarred in here. I would personally like to slap whatever God of War developer 
 created this new method of gameplay as it has rapidly become as over-used as bullet time these 
 days. It was kind of stupid in Dragons Lair and it still kind of stupid now. I don't want to test 
 my knowledge of the controller's button configuration in the heat of a zombie battle, and neither 
 does the person I am playing with who doesn't own a Wii at all and couldn't tell you which button 
 is Z, and which is B to save her life. On top of that, if you're playing the game using the Zapper, 
 you can essentially not hit the A button during gameplay at all. They have dealt with this issue 
 by allowing you to use the Z button for the same functions, but even I, a seasoned gamer got confused 
 a few times when I had to instantly remember that when they say A, I press Z.
  
  Couple this with the fact that these moments are instant death if you don't BOTH pull them off 
 correctly and the fact that they often fall halfway through a level forcing you to start all over 
 again if one of you misses it, and quickly you too will want a few private moments with the developers 
 to smack them with your Wiimote.
  
  Those complaints and the relatively simplex nature of the game aside, the title is nearly perfect 
 for what it is. It moves along at a good pace, there is a really nice variety to the gameplay environments, 
 and the difficulty level is pretty much right on track. Parts of the game are certainly difficult 
 and require a few attempts, but never to the point where it was overtly frustrating.
  
  I won't bother to really talk about the graphics here as it is not really a selling point for this 
 game (or the Wii in general) , but I will say that apart from a few things being a bit too drab, 
 the graphics here are just fine and in some places better then I expected. Zombies have looked 
 better for sure, but they have looked a lot worse too.
  
  When you complete each section you are given a nice stat screen telling you who shot what and your 
 individual ratings. Thee ratings contribute to how many "stars" you get which can then be used 
 to upgrade your weaponry ala RE4 by adding bigger clips to hold more ammo, or increasing the strength 
 of the weapon. It's a nice little bonus feature that gives you incentive to score better and a 
 bit of replay-ability to the game overall.
  
  Most of the other unlockable items such as character bios and monster info files are probably only 
 going to interest the truly die hard RE fans out there, but they are still a fun inclusion and 
 give you a reason to turn over the hundreds of non-threatening shoot-able objects in the game like 
 lamps and boxes while you search for treasure. Shooting the lights out is a bit of a catch 22 in 
 the game as they will often contain a hidden object, but at the same time drench you in even more 
 darkness; that was a nice touch in my opinion.
  
  All in all, RE: UC is a lot of fun to play, especially with a friend or even a spouse. (This is 
 one of about 4 titles ever that my wife actually enjoys playing.) I highly recommend it to any 
 fellow zed/RE fans, and anyone with an itchy trigger finger.
  
  On a side note, I'm not going to include a full-on Zapper review here, but let me just add that 
 after a brief period of adjustment I find the Zapper to really add to the gameplay experience of 
 this title, not necessarily making it more comfortable to play, but giving it more of that arcade 
 light gun feel. Some of the controller shaking actions can be a bit harder to handle due to the 
 weight/size of the zapper and the fact that you are holding it with two hands, but it still adds 
 to the gameplay in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penamat
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil Umbrella Chronicles is a strange game because it mixes quite a few genres such as 
 Shoot-'em-Up, Survival horror, and light gun. However for some strange reason, it all comes together 
 to form an exciting game. Re: UC is a summary of Past Resident evil games, including 0, 1, and 3, 
 added of course, is the on-rails gameplay. for and odd reason, this adds to the suspense of the 
 past games. In the game, you select your mission, select your character, and select your weapon, 
 although whatever you pick, really wont affect the game too much. Most of the time it is a too 
 person team, Ex: Chris and Jill, but unless you just like to watch the counter cut-scenes, it wont 
 matter who you choose. You then watch the screen as it moves and shoot everything that moves. (Literally) , 
 because everything that moves is a threat. Of course, that is the way of Resident evil, overwhelming 
 odds. You just defeat all enemies until you reach the end, then you will more than likely encounter 
 a boss battle, in which you will probably lose too a few times if your on Normal or hard. You continue 
 like that for about 3 levels, then you move on to the next chapter. Dosent sound good? There is 
 alot more too this game than just that.
  
  You get quite a selection of weapons in the game, including handguns, shot-guns, and of course, 
 your knife and grenades. Your handgun has unlimited ammo, but your strong weapons do not, so you 
 will constantly run out of bullets, and be scared for your life, which addes to the atmosphere. 
 You never know whats around the corner after all. 
  
  This is a rail-shooter, so you wont have time to search for weapons and treasures, so you will 
 just have to blow up everything in sight. This is the way you find documents and items. Although 
 they are interesting, they wont add anything to the core game.
  
  Another thing is the added sub-chapters. They give you a whole new perspective on the game, by 
 allowing you too see what the other characters were up too while you were being eaten alive. Especially 
 Wesker, one bad dude. Its all interesting, but it only takes you back to the same level you went 
 through in the main game, so this appeals more too the hard core fans.
  
  All in all, too complete this game on easy, shouldnt take you more than 10 hours, but if you stop 
 to play the bouns chapters, or continue to get eaten, then that number will grow. However its not 
 over then, because this game has alot of replay value, simply because its alot of fun. You can 
 also turn on a second wii mote and play 2 person co-op, but once again it wont add much, but it 
 will be a ton of fun, (and ALOT easier) . In the single player game, you will have a second character 
 follow you around, but its more like a ghost talking to you from time to time, it wont add much.
 
  
  The graphics in this game arent the best. Alot of things you will notice to be not too detailed. 
 It dosent compare to the old man, Resident Evil 4.
  
  The music is crazy, and will switch from fast too slow without warning. When your alone just walking, 
 it will be all fast paced and full of action, but when facing enemies, it may simply stay quiet, 
 you never know.
  
  Some thing else that may have enticed you is the "Wii-Zapper Function" but dont be fooled, it wont 
 add much to the gameplay.
  
  P. s. this game isnt a summary of all the Resident evil games, because it leaves out Re:2, and plus, 
 you wont see the Merchant from RE:4. (sigh)
  
  All in all, you cannot call this game, at all, a sequel to Resident evil 4. Its missing alot of 
 what made RE4 so perfect. However with the old school storyline, exciting on rails gameplay, intense 
 boss battles, and Extreme replay value, this game is solid. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 486248624862486
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 20, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil: Unbrella Chronicles. This is what it is. A chronology of the series put together 
 to make one entire game with most of the characters. Basically, if you've played them all before, 
 chances are this is nothing new at all. If you are expecting a new game, this isn't what you are 
 looking for. You play in first person, like the Gun Survivor or Deam Aim sequels to the series 
 (which really sucked) , but this shows a lot of improvement. The controls are very simple, which 
 you don't have to worry about showing your player where to go. The computer automatically does 
 it for you. You just point and shoot. It also has some button mashing, just like RE 4. You start 
 out in the train as Billy or Rebecca, and work your way up to other characters and memorable bosses 
 from the series. In a way, this game makes a little more sense to the story line. It also makes 
 more sense to the real world. For example: Who goes pushing bookshelves or statues just to unlock 
 a floor device, which will then make a jewel fall out of a statues hand? It's ridiculous. But, 
 RE: UC makes everything short and sweet and you just basically go from point A to point B. All in 
 all, it's a good game, but if you are expecting something different, don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaisal1
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is a general plot summary of the early resident evils. However, many of the plots have 
 been altered such as: Marcus is portrayed as an old man, unlike Resident Evil 0 where he was young. 
 The dialogues have also changed with each scene. The back ground of files has no uniqueness. Other 
 than those facts, the game is sheer fun. It is fun to be able to shoot zombies on their head, it 
 is fun to kill destroy objects in levels, and it is definitely fun to figure out new strategies 
 to kill bosses in this game. Although, not everyone could understand the potential of this game, 
 for that reason I only recommend this game to the fans. I give it an eight because only resident 
 evil fans could understand this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XFoogyX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  First, I would like to say that I'm glad to see the Wii taking an interest in light gun games, 
 such as Umbrellas Chronicles, Ghost Squad, and House of the Dead. The Wii was made for this sort 
 of thing.
  
  I'll start with my biggest complaints about Umbrella Chronicles:
  
  1. The game's difficulty is a little unbalanced. By yourself, playing on easy is just too easy. 
 Co-op on medium is really easy too. Hard mode is too hard whether you're playing co-op or not. 
 There are ways to make the game more difficult though. You can start by not upgrading all of your 
 weapons. Also, try using the handgun most of the time. Save your grenades and more powerful guns 
 for only if you get yourself into a tight situation.
  
  2. It's a slow paced game, especially in the earlier levels. What I mean by this is that not only 
 is it an on-rails shooter, but the rails move too slow most of the time. This really only occurs 
 in the instances where there are no enemies on screen, and was probly the makers way of allowing 
 players to shoot all of the little lights and collect ammo and get a better rank. Being able to 
 move the camera helps it seem less dull.
  
  3. The ranking system is flawed. I've gone through missions without getting hit once, getting tons 
 of headshots on all of the enemies, and still came out with a rank of C. It seems in order to get 
 a really good rank, you have to shoot a lot of the non-enemy objects on screen. Luckily, shooting 
 lights and pots isn't without its rewards, as you'll get plenty of ammo and health to make up for 
 all you're wasting by not shooting the enemies. Also, getting a high rank is the only way to upgrade 
 your weapons, so even if you don't necessarily care about getting the high score, you'll probably 
 eventually care about the lack of customizability that comes with low ranks.
  
  Overall: 
  The game is a very solid Resident Evil experience. In the grand scheme of things, 
 the flaws are much too minor to hinder the quality of the game. Blasting zombies away with the 
 light-gun/ wiimote works perfectly, and there are plenty of boss battles throughout the game that 
 play out really well. The game doesn't bring anything new to the genre, but it tells a good story 
 and looks nicer than a lot of the house of the dead games. 
  
  Whether you're already a big Resident Evil fan, or you're just someone who wants to catch up on 
 the story of the series, there's not much better than Umbrella Chronicles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schmitty_69
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil Umbrella Chronicles is a good edition to the series and the new style helps it stay 
 fresh. The on-rails gameplay style is done incredibly well and makes the game even more suspenseful. 
 Unfortunately the music doesn't fit the style of the game and takes away a bit from that on edge 
 feeling. The atmosphere of the game is great and does justice to the series dark tone. The lack 
 of Resident Evil 2 and Resident Evil Code: Veronica was disappointing, but seeing all the games 
 from Albert Wesker's point of view was a great addition and mostly makes up for the lack of the 
 other games in the series. Resident Evil Umbrella Chronicles is a must have for followers of the 
 series but if not i suggest you rent it before buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zallo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  I started playing this game and automaticly i realized wow this is almost exact same gameplay tiype 
 as HOTD. not saying that is a bad thing its awsome i loved HOTD but now its resident evil style 
 and i dont know if it could be pulled of much better. There really isnt much of a dull moment in 
 RE UC its not one of those hard for about 5 min then "wow where did the challenge go" type of game 
 its hard through the whole game (or what ive played of it so far) . well anyway this game is great 
 for those of you who like the arcade shooter type of game and i highly recomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrimmsonHell
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  The Gameplay of Umbrella Chronicles is a light-gun style shooter. Players remain on a pre-set, 
 "on rails" path, shooting enemies and picking up optionals weapons and health items, occasionally 
 choosing between multiple paths in each chapter. Using the Wii Nunchuk, players can look around 
 for any incoming enemies, and flashing red "warnings" appear when an enemy is approaching the player 
 from any direction. In some cases, the Wii remote can be used to activate melee weapons against 
 enemies, such as knives, or use timed button presses in certain cut scenes to stop enemies. Weapons 
 can be changed quickly, but only the handgun has unlimited ammo. Each stage is split into individual 
 "chapters" and contain save checkpoints at the end of each chapter. The eight playable characters 
 are Chris Redfield, Jill Valentine, Rebecca Chambers, Billy Coen, Carlos Oliveira, Ada Wong, HUNK, 
 and Albert Wesker. It combines of Resident Evil 0,1,2,3 and Umbrella Stronghold which is pretty 
 nice I believe. It will knock you socks off when you get to know all the secrets behind the resident 
 evil files but I am not gonna blow the gameplay. for people who dont like spoilers because me for 
 one are against spoilers except for my last review that was a bit of a spoiler,,.. LOL ,,, I will 
 give something out to all you out there if you read my review I dont know if this is a spoiler 
 or not but if it is comment me well here you, other: List of Resident Evil character in Umbrella 
 chronicles, Barry Burton, Kenneth J. Sullivan, Leon S. Kennedy, William Birkin, Proto-Tyrant, Tyrant 
 (T-002) , Tyrant (T-103) , * Ozwell E. Spencer, James Marcus, Lisa Trevor, Richard Aiken, Enrico 
 Marini, Brad Vickers, Nemesis, Sherry Burkin, Edward Dewey, Dario Rosso, Annette Birkin, Brian 
 Irons, George Trevor, Jessica Trevor! so come on people get the game you will not forget the time 
 you played this game you will never be the same again also check out resident evil 4 it is as good 
 as this one Thnx for listening to me !!!! Krimmzon Hell 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jillsandwich101
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting a great game in umbrella chronicles, and it totally delivered! its currently my 
 fav wii game, and its not just because im a RE fan. ill do this review in categories:
  
  GRAPHICS: 9.0 out of 10. pretty good for wii, a little below RE 4, the cutscenes look great, though 
 the zombies look good, they look a little worse up close. not as good as SMG or corruption, but 
 one of the better looking wii games.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 9.5 out of 10. addicting light gun action that fells nothing like any other RE game, 
 bosses are fun although pretty simplistic. critical hits are appropriately hard and really satisfying 
 when you get them. one thing, to get files you must break objects, which can be kind of hard when 
 tou're surrounded by enemies and moving around.
  
  STORY:8.5 out of 10. it tells part of the stories of RE 0, 1, 3, and a new chapter, which i dont 
 want to spoil. the game ties together the important parts of the game well, which is pretty tough 
 since theres only 3 missions per chapter not including bonus scenarios. the best parts are the 
 scenarios that explain what happened to some characters (including a certain badass with sunglasses 
 ; ) ) in between games and sections of games. the new scenario could have been better, though the 
 idea of actually assaulting an umbrella base is cool, alot of parts dont really feel resident evil-ish.
 
  
  SOUND: 8.0 out of 10. the music is hit and miss, sometimes its scary and goes with the game, but 
 sometimes it sounds like it belongs in a shooter, which i guess this game kind of is, though its 
 more of a horror thing. the voice acting is also on and off, the characters still say stupid one-liners, 
 which isnt neccesarily a bad thing, but sometimes characters answer to questions that were never 
 asked in the middle of a mission. which is wierd cause sometimes its the answer to the question 
 you were asking in your head. the enemies, guns and breaking noises sound really good.
  
  OVERALL: a great game if your a RE fan, or if you want to spend a weekend with a friend having 
 some creepy fun, this is a great purchase or rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TanyaLover
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 12:24 am PT
Review:  As the news came that Resident Evil for the Wii would be an on rails shooter, not too many fans 
 were thrilled... including myself. After a long while of trying to forgive Capcom, I did, and anticipated 
 this new addition to the series. The Umbrella Chronicles is not an average Resident Evil, but it 
 is a game that will do nothing but purely entertain for hours on end.
  
  The games graphics are clearly well made. Brilliant rendesr and cut scenes will please the eye. 
 Details to surroundings are quite exciting to view, as are the terrifyingly realistic enemies that 
 lunge forth with an umph. Though the game did not have the breathtaking pre-rendered backgrounds 
 as the Remake for the Gamecube, this game still gave respect to the Wii for its graphical achievement.
 
  
  Sound in Umbrella Chronicles is probably its weakest notion, but it is still great, which could 
 be considered to be an understatement. Voice acting is fine, enemy sounds are stupendous, weapons 
 and background audios are just as good as they could get. The only problem may be the lack of connection 
 from the music to the situation.
  
  Never in my life have I seen such an interactive game. Basically every single thing the naked eye 
 can lay on in any scenerio can be shot and destroyed. These items range from obvious light bulbs 
 to obscured things such as orange cones. 
  
  The gameplay in RE: UC is clearly top notch. Controls are perfect for such a game, and will really 
 put the player in the mood or in the characters of the game themselves. Large amounts of enemies 
 to kill simply make this game non-stop fun.
  
  Resident Evil: The Umbrella Chronicles is a stupendous game for fans of the series, and a game 
 that should be considered to purchase with a strong passion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cubelover38
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  when you first get going it seems that it's a pretty hard game, but after a while you'll be popping 
 off heads like a pro. the game looks pretty good not jawdropping but good, the shooting controls 
 are spot on but i found it difficult to dodge more often than not. i also found you should go over 
 the missions a couple times to get your most used weapons maxxed all in all the game has the resident 
 evil feel with the backround music from its respective stage. if you love resident evil as much 
 as i do this game really wont dissappoint plus its about time the wii got a worthy exclusive, i 
 played the game with the remote and nunchuch so i don't know how the zapper works with it, but 
 the standard hardware works fine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bostick
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  As with the case with GameSpot (as usual) and any one else with a biased opinion, another very 
 underrated game is deprived of a more deserving higher overall score. That's all right, since people 
 shouldn't base their opinions on a game through a reviewer's opinion...
  
  With that said, this game is awesome and if you disagree with me, you're wrong!
  
  While the 
 controls are easy to pick up, the gameplay itself is very challenging and requires precision over 
 mindless shooting. There are RE4 style command prompts which intensify the frenetic pace that this 
 game has at certain times and if you're one of those people who complained about the IR from the 
 Wii remote, well, you're playing drunk. The aiming is very sensitive to your movement and your 
 total concentration is necessary in shooting with the utmost accuracy.
  
  The graphics are among the best seen in a Wii game and definitely adds to the atmosphere. The quality 
 of the graphics look almost like FMV but with your standard realtime Wii textures. I wouldn't say 
 that the graphics in UC are a step below RE4's, it's just a different engine that makes the game 
 look like someone is walking around with a video camera. Disregarding some lighting flaws and a 
 few weak textures, this is a very eye pleasing game. The music, while HotD cheesy at times, really 
 adds a lot to the great visuals and mood.
  
  Of course, there are lots of collectibles and unlockable content to keep everyone happy, so the 
 replay value is definitely there. The bottomline is that this game is addicting and makes you want 
 to play more to unlock everything and get an S rank. 
  
  If you are a hardcore RE fan and like arcade shooters, you'll want to eat this one up all at once. 
 If you don't really care for RE or light gun games, well, give it a try anyways and you might be 
 pleasantly surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_chub
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  This game is great! Graphics aside, this game plays well, is fun for 2 people and it brings back 
 the fun of throwing quarters in an arcade game for hours. The controls work great, I mean, you 
 point and shoot. It has parts that are intense enough to keep you on the edge of your seat. I think 
 the replay value is really good, games like this that you can beat in a few hours are fun. It is 
 nice to feel like you acomplish something in an afternoon of playing a game instead of just going 
 from 10% to 13% complete. Games like this really show why the Wii is a nex-gen console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dc456
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  RE has always been a succesful series with their unique design of third person shooting. Now the 
 series takes a unique turn and introduces first person shooting.
  
  Obviously the first thing you'll notice is the games setup and control scheme. Shooting becomes 
 as easy as ever giving players a first person perspective of the game. Unfortunatly this is also 
 the games biggest set back because you only use the joystick on the nunchuck the control camera 
 tilt and look around, you can't control your movements with it. But the game designers compensated 
 for that by making the movements actually look human and not just a person walking in a perfectly 
 straight line and being able to climb latters without moving their head.
  
  Next you'll notice is the contol scheme its pretty easy to use just like RE 4 for Wii. All you 
 have to do is just point and shoot. Although this sounds incredibly easy the enemies don't exactly 
 go down always with one shot. As well there are chances when you can either, dodge counterattack 
 or continue through the game by pulling off diffrent actions with the Wii remote.
  
  The games story line is also very well done tying in all the games involving the Umbrella and then 
 expanding on what happens after. All the characters are involved as well as a few new ones.
  
  So wheather your a fan of RE or just looking for a good gory, horror this is definately the 
 game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dubel_07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  This game is beyond words. It's got the classic monsters and atmosphere, characters, explosions 
 and more. Reading a review, GTTV, I believe, they mentioned that the game was rather short, but 
 had an enormous amount of replay value. The game covers Resident Evils Zero, 1 (remake, really) , 
 and 3, adding exclusive content in the Russian (?) wilderness. I've not made it there yet because 
 at 12:30 am, I needed to go to bed. Wesker narrates the story, which tends to jump around a bit.
 
  Things like Dr. Marcus's youthful form are absent to the game, instead, the designers replaced 
 him with a leech-formed form of him before he was assassinated by Birkin and Wesker. Some of the 
 story from the originals is left out, like Barry Burton. It should be said that really the only 
 negative things that happened to me are the fact that often you'll enter a mission, kill 2 or 3 
 zombies, then encounter a loading screen. You won't again, but it seems silly that you'd load right 
 after you enter. The other thing is that I had no idea about how to use the First-Aid spray. What 
 it really does is grant you an extra life. We didn't know that and learned that the hard way.
 
  The weapon leveling system is more like RE2 than RE4. You upgrade aspects like in RE4, but have 
 no control over which part you'd like to upgrade. You accumulate "Stars" for completing levels 
 with an array of grades on areas like "Objects Destroyed" and "Critical Hits". These stars upgrade 
 ONE ASPECT OF THE WEAPON AT A TIME. This is a little frustrating when you want your Sub-Machine 
 gun to do more damage than your grenade launcher (Which is awesome) .
  The graphics really aren't bad. Reviewers said that the game had pre-RE4 graphics... that's wrong. 
 The game's graphics are like 
  RE4-point-5; like the difference between House of the Dead 2 and House of the Dead 4 (Wicked awesome) .
 
  The game takes a page from RE4 with action commands which are a little difficult to do at first. 
 The buttons need to be pressed several times, which I found out the hard way. ****Haven't beaten 
 it yet.
  Enough TALK, GO BUY IT! 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleeding_sky97
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  this game is not only a resident evil game following the real stars story, but its a 1st shooter. 
 my god when i played this game i coulndt stop telling myself that house of the dead has nothing 
 on this game. best 1st shooter. great for RE fans and great for 1st shooter fans. awesome game. 
 sure at first it might seem a little weird, but it uncovers secret from other games. but in this 
 case, the story are flawless. lilke for example how wesker survived the tyrant attack. its basically 
 weskers whole view of the situtaion. an insight on the might of wesker sounds about right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexymdlman
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  As a long time Resident Evil fanatic, it's been a while since I've seen these classic characters 
 in a game again. I wasn't expecting a shooter, but at least it's something new. One very nice feature 
 is the fact that there are actually zombies again! No villiagers, no plagas, just classic monsters. 
 
  
  Ok, let's get the bad stuff out of the way first. One thing I noticed right off the bat, is sometimes 
 the controls response was delayed. If you aim the wii-mote off screen, sometimes it takes a second 
 or two for you to be able to aim again. Also, the dodge buttons can be a bit unresponsive and just 
 confusing in general. When it comes to shaking the wii-mote, it works fine, but when you need to 
 push A, B, or both, you push the buttons and nothing happens. IN order to reload in the game, you 
 have to shake the wii-mote. I thought this was a god idea until I found that Capcom's definition 
 of 'shaking' is beating an imaginary pinata. The last thing I found is that some battles (especially 
 the first boss) are insanely difficult simply due to the fact that it's dodge based, and the controller 
 doesn't respond when you... dodge.
  
  Now on to the good. Capcom really delivered for the true fans of the old games! My favorite characters, 
 monsters (nemesis!) , locations, etc. are everywhere and totally untouched. There's a good range 
 of weapons, difficulty feels right, and with a second player, this game is very fun!
  
  All in all, I must say if you aren't a total RE fan from the PS1 days or any of the classics, this 
 might not be for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hauntedmansion
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Well first off i'am a huge RE fan, and I was kind of expecting this to be a not so great game, 
 but I can say i'm surprised at how fun and awesome it is! Going through the levels in first person 
 is amazing and neat! The graphics are really great as well.
  
  There are lots of chapters and side missions which is excellent, and the new revelations of the 
 story we didn't se before are also interesting. If you really truly like Resident Evil games and 
 the environments, be sure to get this game, it truly is a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swoll45
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Aside from stunning graphics, which isn't new to resident evil games, Umbrella Chronicles offers 
 solid controls and the game grabs the users full, undivided attention with the rebirth of the old 
 resident evil games. Although the enemies are nothing new, unless you've never played a resident 
 evil before, they have new, frightening qualities which help bring back that eerie and struggling 
 atmosphere that is known to resident evil. There are a wide variety of weapons, each having their 
 own pros and cons. Aiming is on point, in my opionion, and any mishaps in accuracy are the fault 
 of the user. Of course this will diminish with practice and experience. The game also offers a 
 fair amount of unlockable content thats brand new to the series. In the end, this game is a solid 
 score for the resident evil and is a must have for die hard wii fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefcake5000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  If you like the resident evil series, like me, you don't even have to look at reviews just buy 
 the game. If you've never played a RE game this serves a good first time play through the series 
 covering most of the most important parts in the franchise. The only thing that made me not give 
 it a 10 was the controls sometimes feel wonky, especially with the Zapper, but thats probably my 
 only gripe with the game. Music is great, voice acting brings you back to the old days, and playing 
 as Wesker really gets you pumped up. Do yourself a favor buy this game, and make sure you have 
 someone to play with cause having a partner really adds to the experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gammagoat
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  This game has really solid game play. Using the wii remote, you can shoot different classic Resident 
 Evil monstrosities. I particularly like that the game fills in the blanks that were left in the 
 story with the other games. It makes more sense of what you've already played.
  
  On the down side, this game does not have the challenging and amazing puzzles to solve that all 
 of the other Resident Evil games have. The focus of this game is to just shoot everything. It almost 
 does not feel like a Resident Evil game because of this.
  
  Overall, great game, buy it if you have the money. If you don't have the money, get it and then 
 get the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pill922
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Ever wonder what Wesker was up to in the resident evil games? Well know you can now by playing 
 Resident Evil Umbrella Chronicles. You play though resident evil one, resident evil 3, resident 
 evil zero and a new umbrella base in Russian Antarctica. These all include the original bosses 
 from the games. This is a rail shooter just to get it out of the way, you don't move at all, but 
 this doesn't stop you from having one hell of a time. Your camera moves from room to room throwing 
 zombies, dogs, birds, leaches and some other enemies. Each enemy has specific weak points that 
 you have to shoot to get a quick kill. 
  You get the normal range of weapons pistols, shot guns, submachine gun, and grenade lancer. There 
 are different models of each of these guns that you can unlock. You also get grenades, and a knife. 
 You hold down the button and slash the wii remote fiercely to get leeches and just to stab zombies. 
 You play a variety of characters from past resident evil games including Chris Redfield, Jill Valentine, 
 Kenneth J. Sullivan, and Rebecca Chambers. This game has a huge amount of replay value. Once you 
 complete story mode you can play several levels. But these new levels are re used levels that just 
 have you going through a different door. The co-op is great. You and friend share a life bar and 
 play though the story mode. All in all this is a great rail shooter that doesn't real have any 
 flaws just doesn't do anything new to the series. It is fun to play but once you beat every thing 
 in this game threes not a whole lot to do. 
  8.5/9 -pill92
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: byrnzi
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  This game has it all. Good visuals, lots of action, and considerable difficulty. When I first heard 
 of it, I planed on getting it, but deep down doubted it would be long and hard. I was wrong. 
 
  
  The game is challenging, each chapter is divided up to three subchapters, each lasts about 15-30 
 minutes depending on how well you play. Notes and documents are scattered around the map, finding 
 them increases your score, as well as shooting zombies in critical locations (which isn't easy.)
 
  
  Each chapter also has bonus chapters that deal with other characters in the game, like Wesker, 
 Ada, and Hunk apparently (I haven't gotten to Hunk yet.)
  
  The game is challenging and fun, a must buy... or at least rent it... you shouldn't be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceman_1486
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing! It is on par with Twilight Princess in the graphics department and it's musical 
 score is quite nice. The locals of the game take place in the order they appeared. From the runaway 
 train in zero; to racoon city in three. Some new areas are added as a side note to the wesker storyline. 
 The only downside to the game is that the original voice actors didn't do the game. It has a good 
 difficulty on single player. The number of zombies that come at you make it so that it is hard 
 to get the instant kill shot. Overall this is a must own for Resident Evil fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macrules_640
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Okay so a lot of people were scared by the fact that Capcom was making another light gun game after 
 they failed with the abysmal Survivor, but put your doubts aside and take a look at Resident Evil 
 the Umbrella Chronicles as it takes you through the events of Resident Evil 0,1,3 and a little 
 after words. Now a lot of people have complained that Capcom has skipped Resident Evil 2, but remember 
 Claire and Leon have stories of there own that played out in Code Veronica and Resident Evil 4, 
 this game focus on Jill and Chris's efforts to stomp Umbrella out and finally stop the company 
 for good and get Wesker as well. Now the game itself is about 15 to 20 hours long and I think that's 
 pretty good for a light gun game because most of them last for maybe an hour so Capcom has fleshed 
 out what has happened to Jill and Chris between the events of Resident Evil 4. The controls for 
 the game are actually good, but what do you expect with the Wii controls. At first I found the 
 game hard but after some tweaking I found that I could enjoy the game just like it was intended 
 to been. But one of the short comings in the game as to be the graphics. I mean come on Capcom 
 I know you could of done better with the game. The graphics look like a Gamecube game and even 
 with a HDTV the graphics still lack in some areas, but the Wii is no graphic powerhouse so that's 
 to be expected. Another downside to the game as to be some of the VO. If you though the original 
 Resident Evil had bad voice acting than your in for a treat as some of the VO doesn't even fit 
 in some parts, but some parts the VO does quite good. Throw in some multi-player and some of the 
 best bosses from 0,1, and 3 and you have a game that does better than some of it's earlier works.
 
  
  
  
  Graphics: 8
  Could of been a little better given that the Wii is a little more powerful than the Gamecube.
 
  
  Sound: 8.5 
  Some of the VO is annoying, but the good old Resident Evil music is always good.
  
  Gameplay: 
 9
  You shoot zombies and other creatures and the bosses are epic as always.
  
  Control: 10
  It works a lot better than Dead Aim and Survivor did thanks to the Wii's motion 
 sensing remote.
  
  Difficulty: 9
  Even on easy this game can get a little hard, but thanks to difficulty settings this makes the 
 game fun.
  
  Overall: 8.5
  Much better than Survivor and this game will keep you busy for sometime. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: venom3161994316
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  gameplay 8.5/10
  
  graphics 7/10
  
  sound 8/10
  
  value 10/10
  
  tilt 8/10
  
  
  gameplay: very fun. this game wasnt any thing spectacluar but it was fun enough 2 hold 
 ur attension. especially with the wii zapper. ud go aound shooting undead with the zapper which 
 made the game very fun. defietly worth buying if ur a fan of shooting or re. this game was simply 
 amazing and super fun. i luved it so much!!! 8.5
  
  graphics: they r good but nothing great. they r like most wii game graphics so they fit in.
  
 
  sound: the sound was pretty good. it wasnt perfect but it was good enough for a wii game. the sounds 
 bettr than alot somegames ive played this past 2 years but it wasnt anything awsome. the sound 
 was good though.
  
  value: the best part of re. id replay this game so many times its not even funny. there r games 
 with better value than this but this game is on the top 10 for replay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhannibal
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  ok im goin to go by the postives in this game
  
  postives
  its a blast to play, your goin to want to play each senior over and over to get the perfect score 
 and all the documents
  despite what IGN said i didnt have a problem with aiming 
  also its really not repative and sometimes the creatures come out of no where and come at you from 
 a distance
  theres plenty of ammo but it doesnt over do it and the game is still chanlenging
  the bosses 
 are sweet and are no east task to take down
  the game is just plain fun, deff worth 50 bucks
  negative
  sometimes its a pain to reload but 
 really doesn ruin the game
  the graphics are great indoors but when u get out side it kind of gets crap
  
  overall
  this 
 is a great game im giving it a 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kegeto
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:50 am PT
Review:  Alright Resident evil Umbrella Chronicles has finaly come we finaly get to see Wesker Transform. 
 All though you play as Jill Chirs Wesker Billy Rebbecca and Carlos you still missing Leon and Claire 
 though the reason why they aren't here is cause this story is based on S. T. A. R. S only. Ada is in 
 this game as well you finaly see how she surive the Gun shot or the Electrical surge when throwen 
 into the computer. Either Way she comes back from hell when Wesker save her life. But the purpose 
 in Russia is still unclear for those who didnt play it and those who did hash dont spoil it for 
 us. Maybe we might find the Reason why Chirs in Afirca. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poio1982
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil Umbrella Chronicles is a new fresh face for the series. is the same old story that 
 we know, but with several hints a new epilogues, also reveling some of questions that we always 
 had about the Resident Evil Universe. 
  Te cross over of the characters is very interesting.
  
  i really enjoyed the first two hours 
 of the game, also i was very afraid of a short term game, like Vampire night, Time Crisis, House 
 of the Death or others, you know, 3 levels 3 chapters per level and thats it.
  
  Well !!!
  
  Thanks God this is not the case. i guess at least RE UC is going to be a lil longer 
 than the mentioned. also incorporating the Puzzles as the series is well know.
  
  One thing i really like about this one is the WiiZapper is non Battery required. so also you can 
 play without it, there is not need to have this one.
  
  Ok so Here is the Deal
  
  BUY THIS GAME RIGHT NOW!!!!!
  
  Special Mention: BGM is OUTSTANDING!!!
  
  ---------------------------------
 
  
  Graphs: 9.5
  Story: 10
  Wii control sense: 9
  Sound: 10
  
  OVERALL
  
  
  ----------------------
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
