-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rock Band
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/puzzle/rockband/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fantastic multiplayer.
 Large, varied soundtrack.
 Lets you sing and play drums, guitar, and bass.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 World Tour is stripped bare and band customization is nonexistent.
 No online features.
 Expensive ($170 USD).
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  2, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.0, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 1,105 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: MTV Games
Developer: Harmonix Music
Genre: Rhythm / Music
Date: Jun 22, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Rock Band for the Wii is still a great game, even if it's scaled back and late to the party. 
 

  PlayStation 2 owners were bummed when they had to wait an extra month for the greatness of Rock 
 Band, but that's nothing compared to the seven months Wii owners have had to endure. Despite the 
 lengthy period between the release of the PS2 and Wii iterations, the two games are mostly identical 
 to each other. The Wii doesn't have online play and lacks most of the customization options of 
 the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360, but it still lets you and three friends form a band to rock the 
 night away -- and that's the important thing.  

           Play or sing the notes as they go by. You're a rock star now!      

  Rock Band includes 
 a wireless guitar, drum kit, and microphone. The game supports a second guitar for bass parts, 
 but you'll have to purchase it separately (FYI: the Guitar Hero 3 controller doesn't work) . To 
 use all four instruments at once you'll need to plug the included USB adapter into the Wii and 
 then hook the instruments and wireless dongles into the adapter. For a detailed breakdown on how 
 each instrument works and gameplay specifics, refer to our review of the PlayStation 2 game  here 
 . Other than the drum kit now being white and the pads feeling a bit softer and bouncier, there 
 doesn't appear to be much of a difference between the Wii hardware and other versions -- the instruments 
 are responsive and feel great. While we experienced no problems with the hardware during the course 
 of reviewing the Wii game, it's worth mentioning that previous versions of Rock Band have had issues 
 with hardware reliability that often weren't initially apparent.  

  There's plenty to do if you're a solo act (you can sing, drum, or strum along to any song) , but 
 Rock Band is a game best played with friends. Even without the ability to customize the appearance 
 of individual band members and despite the fact that you can no longer travel the world earning 
 new fans, equipment, and money, it's tremendous amounts of fun to come up with a name for your 
 band, argue over song selection, activate overdrive at the same time, blame bandmates for messing 
 up the end of songs, and swap instruments between tunes. The game mirrors the band experience so 
 closely that nobody wants to be the bass player. Now that's realism!  

  Rock Band's tracklist features a great mix of songs that includes classic rock, punk, '80s rock, 
 alternative, and modern rock. Most of the songs are performed by the original artists, though there 
 are a few covers. There's music from the Rolling Stones, Aerosmith, KISS, Bon Jovi, R. E. M., The 
 Who, Weezer, Stone Temple Pilots, Radiohead, Beastie Boys, Soundgarden, and many more. There are 
 a total of 63 songs, five more than in previous releases. The five new songs are "Roxanne" by The 
 Police, The B-52's "Roam," "Dirty Little Secret" from the All-American Rejects, Oasis' "Don't Look 
 Back in Anger," and "Rockaway Beach" by The Ramones. The Wii version has no online play, nor does 
 it have the option to download tracks. However, starting in July you'll be able to purchase a disc 
 that includes 20 songs that were previously available as downloadable content on the PS3 and 360. 
 It's not the ideal way to get new tunes, but it's better than nothing.  

  The visuals aren't impressive, but they're functional and the frame rate is steady. When you aren't 
 too busy rocking, you'll see that while the virtual band that rocks in the background looks pretty 
 cool, they're nothing more than footage of prerendered characters. They don't react in real-time, 
 and because there's only one pre-made video for song, you'll tire of seeing the same routine repeatedly. 
 It's too bad, because seeing your customized characters own the stage was a blast on the 360 and 
 PS3, and it was amusing to see the goofy photographs of your band in the load screens in those 
 versions.  

  But it's not that important for a music game to look good; it's supposed to sound good. For the 
 most part, Rock Band sounds terrific. The cover songs are generally very well done, and some of 
 them, like "Train Kept a Rollin," are amazingly true to the original. If you don't have a stereo 
 hooked up to your Wii, you're missing out. This is a game that's best played loud. The only (minor) 
 gripes are things you probably won't notice if you haven't played the Xbox 360 or PS3 versions -- the 
 crowd is lively but doesn't sing along, and the effects that you can use on the guitar during solos 
 and overdrive don't sound very good (though the normal guitar sounds just fine) .  

           It's always the drummer's fault. Always.      

  Thanks to a lack of online play and 
 a stripped-down feature set, the Wii version of Rock Band isn't the best one available. But that 
 doesn't mean it's not a great game; it absolutely is. Whether you're a lone rocker or have more 
 band members than Parliament Funkadelic, there are dozens of hours of entertainment to be found 
 here. Short of signing with a shady manager, developing a substance abuse problem, and dying tragically 
 young in some sort of transit accident, there's no better way to live the life of a rock star. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (60 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: warrenmats
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2009 5:05 pm PT
Review:  This game has a great multiplayer mode.
  up to four players, this gam ewill make you rock and roll for hours and hours with your friends. 
 great instruments like the bass, the microphone, of course the guitar, and the drum makes the gamelay 
 even more revolutionary.
  
  The bad part is, the singleplayer mode.
  This game is boring to play alone, since this game was created for multiplayer.
  online is pretty 
 much useless, and yea, you can just sinply go to the cheats mode section, and just unlock all the 
 songs in a single second. ( by pressing the control buttons somehow check the interent for cheats) .
 
  
  The bottom line for this game is, that you shouldnt play alone.
  
  it will be better listining to your ipod than playing this game alone.
  but if your like a tripleit 
 or a twin, its worth to play with them. 
  
  But still, overall that this game isnt a worthy game for a singleplayer game.
  If you have no 
 friends, dont buy it.
  it would kinda be useless
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domenico54
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2009 7:10 am PT
Review:  Ahh. This christmas was a fun one. Gamefly renewal.... world of warcraft renewal... rockband.... 
 but i guess i had set my expectations to high? One night on my birthday i asked all my buds to 
 bring their game systems and one brought rockband for the 360. COOLEST. GAME. EVER. Character creater 
 was great, getting fans, new guitars and equipment, and touring was great. But all of these things 
 the wii version of the game lack. The tour is boring at best... nothing to do the people on screen 
 are doing something completely opposite to you. You play 5 songs get another 5 songs, and once 
 you have every song there is no replay value. Other than setting high scores but Im a single child. 
 No fun there. No equipment to get, makes everything repetive when you see the same people wearing 
 the same thing looking the same way doing the same exact thing as last 4 times. No online. Thats 
 terrible. more than held back more than have a year and they take everything fun and cool out of 
 it and make this one and done deal. Luckly they didnt mangle the multiplayer. I have a friend or 
 two over once a week so luckly it isnt in the box in an auction on Ebay with me thinking worst 
 gift ever. In the multiplayer everything looks nice and is responsive and the song collection is 
 great. Beatie Boys, KISS, all american rejects, black sabbath, and more current and modern rock. 
 If this game could live up to the 360 id be telling you how great it is. Buy this game on any other 
 system but wii. ESPECIALLY if you've played other versions of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebuckeye08
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 6:03 pm PT
Review:  The day I got this i was like awsome, and couldn't put the guitar down, and my sister couldnt stop 
 hitting those drums.
  
  Comes with more than the guitar, so thats awsome get in a band, and rock out the world (or the house) .
 
  
  BAD: No wifi, no dressing up, and desighning the band, and the tour mode sucks.
  
  With wifi, and desighning characters, and good tour mode, a 9.5 easy.
  
  GOOD: Good listing 
 of songs, difficulty settings, more than the guitar, have a band.
  
  This is a good game, and a great change from the guitar hero series. A MUST have for wii owners, 
 pay some music, make a band and rock the world.
  
  So all in all it had alot of potential, and didnt do all it could have, makeing this game almost 
 but not quite.
  
  I'm sure rock band 2 will be better, and its released, kinda expensive, like the origional rock 
 band, but hey, its worth it. If you have no one to play with, settle for guitar hero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 9:17 am PT
Review:  I have not played Rock Band on the other consoles and I haven't played Rock Band 2 at all. I have 
 played Guitar Hero II, Guitar Hero III, and Guitar hero Hero: World Tour and those are what I will 
 be comparing this game to in this review. 
  
  The peripherals are just cheap and lazy. The guitar is too light, feels completely wrong, and keeps 
 me worrying that I'm going to accidently break it. The microphone is just like the one from kareoke 
 revolution, you can't really screw it up. The drums are pretty cheap, and it feels like you're 
 going to break the bass pedal. They're also very loud, and the bass pedal can be pretty unresponsive. 
 The drums also take some getting used to but once you have they're a lot of fun and a really different 
 experience than the guitar.
  
  The graphics are pretty average for a Wii game. I would have appreciated it if Harmonix put a little 
 more effort into it. You don't really have to have nice graphics in a game like this, but it's 
 still nice to have. The load times are kind of long for a game that does so little graphically. 
 
  
  The soundwork is pretty good. There's way too many covers though. What really disappoints me is 
 that all of the songs on there that would normally be my favorites have really bad covers that 
 ruin them. That being said there's a good mix of genres in the game and just about anyone should 
 be able to find something they enjoy. There's a ton of downloadable content, but for some reason 
 Harmonix didn't make it available on the Wii version, a rather large disappointment.
  
  The gameplay is this game's saving grace. By themselves none of the instruments are as fun or challenging 
 as playing the guitar in Guitar Hero, but when you play together with friends it's a blast. The 
 menus are pretty poorly constructed in comparison to any of the Guitar Hero games I've played. 
 The character customization has been left out of the Wii version for some unkown reason. 
  
  Overall the game just doesn't stack up to the polish of the Guitar Hero series. On top of this 
 the Wii version is incomplete and pretty lacking when compared to the Xbox 360 and Playstation 
 3 versions. It's a really fun party game, but nothing more than that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGDFDGFBBYT
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 81 % Rock band came out on the other console like xbox 360... ect but when rock band came 
 out on the wii it was late i dont think rock band fans want this for the wii. Overall the game 
 has allot of songs and the games pretty challenging. I reccomend you to get rock band 2 guitar 
 with rock band game thats what i have and it works perfectly.
  
  
  Graphics 76 % The graphics are ugly not when you playing but the characters in the background its 
 just horrible.
  
  
  Sound 82 % Most of the songs on rock band are old buts its easy and fun to play with the guitar 
 it doesn`t matter if you dont like the songs.
  
  Difficulty : Like in all the guitar hero and rock band games you can choose the level that you 
 prefer like easy medium, hard and expert.... The more songs you play in solo tour the more songs 
 you unlock in quik play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiifanaticnumbe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Well I visited my friend's house and he bought Rock Band in the morning. Well I played it and this 
 is what I thought. The game had pretty good graphics like better then Guitar Hero III and the songs 
 were so-so. I personally didn't like all the songs they had in Rock band. The songs were very slow 
 in the beginning and some got faster and slower near the end. What sucks is that you can't make 
 your character or even choose one! Atleast in GH III you were able to choose a person. Now your 
 probably wondering well why you need to see the people when your focusing on the buttons? I agree 
 with that opinion as well but Depending on the instrument your playing (Guitar, Bass, Microphone, 
 or Drums) there will be a certain break in it. Like in the intro to Ballroom Blitz by Sweet, it 
 has a drum opening, so the drummer will be hitting the notes, while the guitarist will be waiting 
 for his part. That is where you'll either looked at the background and see the characters and think 
 man the singer doesn't look like he matches the songs, or the drummer is a girl and im a dude... you 
 know stupid stuff. I really didn't care I knew I was going to wait for either the New Guitar Hero 
 or the new Rock Band. Overall the setlest is quite nice like playing the drums to Enter Sandman 
 by Metallica, or strumming out to Are you going to be my girl by Jet can't help but make you smile 
 and laugh with friends as you rock the house upside down! Overall I thought it was a cut & paste 
 job, just same things in the 360 and pasted onto the wii but with lesser features. No downloadable 
 content, no characters, and some other stuff I can't remember. My opinion is to either get it for 
 360, wait for Rock Band 2, or just get the new guitar hero. Hope this helps! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezsqueeze95
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Just Get it. This game rocks. Stop comparing it to the other systems. if youre going to wine about 
 it, Go spend about $600 on a ps3. Seriously if this system was the only one they made it for people 
 would be praisin it. Perfect GO AND BUY IT NOW! Buy it, play it, review it, give it a ten, and 
 play some more. if it doesnt suit you, why not try some other games like guitar hero world tour? 
 I admit it could have been better... oh listen to me! Now im comparing it to other systems! seriously, 
 just buy it and be  
 Go Out and have fun, you know you want tooooo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoNin360
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 3:13 pm PT
Review:  After the review note: bumped up to an 8.5, didn't have a very adequete review in the first place 
 lol, but I'll keep the review as is
  Well this game is almost like the other versions (PS3, XBOX360..) But it is missing something... 
 online features. There are no online features whatsoever. No band customizing or whatever. 
  
  You do however get pretty much the same gameplay. There's only 60 some songs in this one so 
 it doesn't really last long, but it is a game you can come back and play. The multiplayer is great 
 of course, the more people the more fun.
  
  The Rock Band guitar is pretty bad so playing the guitar isn't as great. The drums are amazing 
 though, and more sturdy than other versions. But what sucks for Wii owners is how late this game 
 came out. I meen Rock Band 2 is already out for crying out loud, fortunately, the Wii version for 
 that is coming out soon. Exactly 6 months from the release of Rock Band for the Wii, Rock Band 
 2 will be coming out.
  
  Atleast Rock band 2 won't be a several month wait...
  
  Graphics: 6\10- nothing special
  
  gameplay: 8.5\10- doesnt take long to get through all songs
 
  
  sound: 9.5\10- great
  
  multiplayer: 10\10
  
  value: 7\10- cost a lot but atleast you'll already have instruments for Rock Band 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phazon_Killer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  arite ive been had rock band i never really made a review so here it is, so first of all i want 
 to say this game is really fun playing by yourself and especially when you have the whole band 
 together. 
  
  One thing that the Wii version has that the ps3 and 360 version doesnt is the new reinforced drum 
 set, i remember playing with my cousins drum set for like 30 minutes and the drum pedal just broke, 
 with the wii drums i dont think that'll happen, the wii version drum pads are also white which 
 is cool, i prefer the white better than gray, the rest of instruments are pretty mugh the same.
 
  
  Now lets take about how the game plays, the game plays pretty much the same as rock band for 360/ps3, 
 same interface and everything, the only thing i didnt like when your actually playing a song is 
 this old movie type effect where you dont really see the characters well, i didnt like that at 
 all, i guess they did that because of the wii's inferior horsepower compared to 360, also something 
 they took out for the wii version is the ability to use your GH3 guitar, the rock band guitar isnt 
 really good, its solid but its not for me, also THERES NO ONLINE!!!! This takes away alot of replay 
 value in Rock Band. One reason why i kept playing guitar hero 3 was because of the online and it 
 was lag free unlike games like SSBB. And if you thought that was all they stipped from the wii 
 version then your, wrong, They took off the full fleged World Tour which bummed me out, cuz story 
 mode feels like quickplay in the wii version. 
  
  Even though there was alot of things taken off from the wii version its still an enjoyable game, 
 you get the same songs + 5 the guitar the drums and the mic, its still Rock Band and its fun to 
 play with alot of people. But if you have a 360 just get that version instead. I gie rock band 
 for wii a 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eboyy47
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  First of all, i would like to say that i really enjoy playing this game and that if you have a 
 group of friends to play it with, its addictinig. But, if you dont you should stick to guitar hero. 
 I have guitar hero 3 and i love it just as much as rock band. The reason i would chose rock band 
 over guitar hero is because it doesnt offer the whole band experience. i know that gh4 now offers 
 it but its way to expensive and i decided to settle for the 109 dollar rock band bundle instead. 
 I opened this case, and it was all neatley organized. Once, you try to open and fix the parts though, 
 its a pain in the ass. The drums come with like a one page manual with no words and it took me 
 like a hour to figure out. After i did though the game was fun. I beat it in 6 hours with my friends 
 and have to say that the soundtrack is alright, but not as memorable as guitar heros. Some songs 
 are fun, like Paranoid, Dirty little Secret, and that one Coheed and Cambria song. Some though, 
 are really boring to play. The story mode is.... well.... there is no story mode. Also, pretty 
 much theres only a quickplay mode and you just play through all the songs to unlock them. 
  Heres the official breakdown
  
  Game play- Fun, no story mode so thats a bummer, 8.0
  
 
  Sound- Great, some songs are boring, 9.0
  
  Graphics- shiny notes charts horrible background, 8.0
  
  Replay value- Awesome, fun with friends,8.0
 
  
  Good with friends, no friends then buy guitar hero 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecoolhh
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  Rock Band for the Wii doesn't include some of the key features that made the PS3 and 360 versions 
 of the game amazing but it still has the Rock Band feel and fun that made it so much fun to play 
 with friends.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Using the same formula of the Guitar Hero games it was bound to be good but it blows Guitar Hero's 
 take on the genre out the water. Overdrive is equivalent to GH's star power but a much more realistic 
 take on it. Basically everything about the gameplay is like Guitar Hero but much more realistic 
 and much more fun.
  
  Graphics: 7.5/10
  Character models look stupid especially since you can't create your own but your mainly going to 
 look at the notes so it doesn't matter too much. 
  
  Sound: 8.5/10
  Soundtrack is okay. Not as good as GH3 soundtrack but some very good bands are on Rock Band that 
 aren't on GH such as my personal favorite Nine Inch Nails. The Wii version also comes with 5 bonus 
 songs that are actually DLC for the 360 and PS3 versions. Sound quality is good.
  
  Lasting Appeal: 9/10
  You will be playing the game for a long time. The game has about 53 tracks 
 on the disc including track packs that are for the Wii since it doesn't have DLC. Overall you will 
 love playing with family and friends and this game is just amazing.
  
  Overall the game is missing features such as character creation, World Tour mode, DLC, and more 
 but it still has the Rock Band formula down and it is still a lot of fun to play with friends which 
 is the most important thing to Rock Band.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Southern05Belle
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  I give this game a 10 out of 10. It is a awesome game and I am sure that Rock Band 2 will be just 
 as good if not better. One thing I like is, on the play station 3 and xbox 360, there are five 
 songs that you can download. On the Wii version, the songs are already on the game which means 
 you do not have to download ANYTHING! I think they should have made it the real game like on the 
 play station 3 and xbox 360. You can not play online with others on Rock Band Wii. When playing 
 on Easy, all songs are pretty easy except for "Dead on Arival" by Fall Out Boy. That song, to me, 
 is always hard on any level. I also like the fact that it has Track Packs so you are not stuck 
 with the 63 songs that game on the actuale game. Overall, it is a good game. I would recommend 
 it to anyone that likes playing Guitar Hero. I am looking forward to Rock Band Two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luxma
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  THE UPS: For the wii version of Rock Band you get exclusive song that on other systems you have 
 to buy. Everything is wireless except the mike. The guitars look a lot more realistic than Guitar 
 Hero. It's a little easyer then Rock Band.
  THE DOWNS: You can't make your own band in wii the wii version. 
  You don't get to choose the 
 state or continent your band plays in. Theirs no good cut screens. [Now I don't want to disappoint 
 anybody with the downs, but if I played it, bought it, and still play it, then its got to be worth 
 something. If your skeptical barrow it or play it at a store you might like it, or you'll hate 
 it and never read another one of my reviews. Witch is ok too, but... like I always say only you 
 know if its good enough for you.] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubbaraz
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  I'll start off with saying this game was a lot of money. But if your willing to pay $170 for it, 
 it's an excellent buy. I only bought it a couple weeks ago, but it's a great game as far as I can 
 tell. First of all, it has a lot of great songs. Even if it doesn't have very much, only sixty-three, 
 almost all of them are great and fun to play along to. The gameplay is great too. The most entertaining 
 part is the drums, but guitar and singing is fun sometimes too. The drums are especially addictive, 
 and I'm only on hard. The tour mode, while being quite linear, provides a nice learning curve. 
 I never got stuck on any song for more tha a few tries, which is pretty nice. It is too bd there's 
 no world tour or character custumization. I don't really mind that much though. Last of all, it's 
 extremely fun to play multiplayer when I get to. I think it's when the game is at it's best. All 
 in all, while it's quite exspensive and downgraded, it's still a great game that anyone with a 
 wii should get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boat95
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Finally! What I was waiting for. A game where you could not only play the guitar but also the drums! 
 Seems perfect right? No. Rockband is not terrble but its not perfect. If you hit too hard on the 
 drums it might not register. When you're playing a fast song like Run to the Hills by Iron Maiden, 
 it's very difficult to play quiet. The drum pedal isn't perfect either. At times, the game practically 
 asks you to do double bass type pedal notes with a single pedal. Trying to do this, my pedal snapped. 
 Now to the guitar. The guitar is actually pretty good, but on expert, it's a lot easier to master 
 than guitar hero. The only major bad thing about the guitar is that there are near impossible strums, 
 that in guitar hero you wouldn't have to strum on. The bass is cool but of course you don't get 
 any solos. The microphone is good except if you're tone death. In my opoinion, I would just wait 
 until Guitar Hero World Tour comes out. The ong selection for Rockband is alright in my opinion, 
 but they focused more on light rock than metal. I guess that's only an opinion. I beleive that 
 rockband is fun but at times it's frustrating, like in Train kept arollin by Aerosmith when you 
 have to do a long drum roll on the drums. I was putting in all the effort but the game wasn't picking 
 up he notes. Now that there are better multiplayer plastic instrument games out there, Rock Band 
 is basically not that good anymore. But it is fun. You stop playing when either you get sleepy 
 or when your vocal chords will fall out, our foot and wrists will fall off, or your wrist gives 
 up on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiiwillrocku360
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  After months about asking why the heck this game isn't for Wii; I found out that my question has 
 been answered: It's going to be for Wii! So in August, I got the game, and it ROCKS!!! Sure it 
 may not have online access or Rock Maker or Guitar Hero guitar compatibility, but those are minor 
 problems. This game rocks out loud, with artists like Foo Fighters, Coheed and Cambria, Jet, Flyleaf, 
 Weezer, and Raidohead some of which are my family's favorite bands. My neighbors ask me almost 
 all the time to play that game! Almost all the songs are the bands original artists and not covers. 
 If you want to rock out loud and you have a Wii, get Rock Band! But if you have a Wii and want 
 to go online and create your own characters, this game is not for you. Instead, wait for Rock Band 
 2 coming for Wii and PS2 in December. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyRice
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  The Good: A nice soundtrack, with a couple extra songs thrown in there; drums and singing are a 
 lot of fun; it's great for parties.
  
  The Bad: Awful graphics; guitars are annoying, oddly enough; no connectivity to Guitar Hero controllers; 
 no downloadable content; Band Tour and everything involving characters is gone; single player and 
 multiplayer are separate for no apparent reason.
  
  Wii has been completely and utterly screwed multiple times despite being the bestselling system 
 this generation, by a mile. It's unbelievable that the Wii is getting graphics that are weaker 
 than what the Gamecube can do, and the Wii can do twice what it can. Some companies put in the 
 effort and you can see the very impressive results, naturally including Nintendo.
  
  But EA Games has completely ignored the Wii. It took half a year for a halfhearted effort of Rock 
 Band to come to Wii, and while the gameplay is naturally impressive (generally) , it's not half 
 of what it is on the other systems.
  
  You'll first notice that the single player career and multiplayer career have to be separate, meaning 
 if you want to play with friends, you have to have a different "band" than you do playing solo. 
 This makes no real sense, and is the first nuisance the game brings onto the table.
  
  
  Moving along, we get to the tracklist. This, on the other hand, is pretty good stuff. There are 
 60 songs or so, a few less than Guitar Hero III, but plenty nevertheless, especially with four 
 different instruments, not just two. Some great classics are in there that parents will enjoy, 
 some songs you've probably heard on the radio, and a couple that are a tad obscure, but still fun 
 once you learn what they are. There really aren't any truly bad songs, even if some are weaker. 
 The combo of Guitar Hero, drums, and karaoke (although it tells you how badly you're doing) is a 
 pretty damn good idea, and a sensible one.
  
  You'll also notice, however, that you can't pick a character, let alone create one as could be 
 done on 360 and PS3. This makes it pretty much impossible to connect to your character. In Guitar 
 Hero, you can at least enjoy that you hand selected your character. Here, it plays with random 
 characters already set for each song. It weakens the feeling of being "in a band" which the game 
 is presumably supposed to make.
  
  Now the graphics come up. They're blurry and just as pathetic as Guitar Hero's, if different. I 
 too am sick of this. I'll keep docking points, as will everyone else, until it's fixed. Sadly though, 
 the games will sell anyway, so I don't know what can be done to help the matter. Maybe The Conduit 
 will help out...
  
  The sound, fortunately, is good. If not for that... Well, seeing as it's a music game, it'd be 
 basically an epic failure.
  
  Now for gameplay, the last part of this game. There's no Band Tour, an RPG like, extremely impressive 
 set-up in the other versions of the game, also taking away from the band feeling. It's not that 
 Harmonix suddenly sucks, since they did the fantastic first two Guitar Heroes and the far superior 
 versions of Rock Band; it's just that this port is pretty weak.
  
  The mic works fine. You hit it to the beat, and it picks it up just fine. You sing into it, it'll 
 tell the pitch just fine. You can belt it to the songs you like all you want. It is annoying when 
 you're bringing your voice lower and it doesn't pick it up, since it generally wants you to be 
 singing in a different way, but the game helps you out with a background singer.
  
  The drums are pretty freaking cool. The four pads and pedal work the way they should, you won't 
 break anything (one good thing about this version) and you will find it to be just as challenging 
 to improve upon as guitar.
  
  But guitar and bass... Somehow, the company that thought of Guitar Hero managed to make a pretty 
 poor guitar. It's cool that there are two sets of the buttons, one for solos so you don't have 
 to strum, and that you can make your guitar echo and such, but the thing they missed is that the 
 strum bar is just plain annoying. It's hard to make it work, let alone keep a beat, and it just 
 hurts your hand. Also, Guitar Hero guitars don't work with Rock Band, which would alleviate the 
 problem, since the Guitar Hero III guitar set-up on Wii was intuitive and fantastic. It makes no 
 sense that when I play at a party, nobody wants to play guitar.
  
  Plus, when you're singing, you're going to want to sing a song you know. The other option is to 
 play one of the other instruments and listen to the lyrics a lot until you know it. That's all 
 well and good, except that that basically means you'll be trying to make the guitar work or playing 
 drums a lot, more than likely in single player. This is where downloadable content would help out. 
 But it's nowhere to be found in this version. True, the Wii has a strange storage system, but Guitar 
 Hero is getting around it at this very moment, and without too much trouble, even while staying 
 permanently online, 360/PS3 style.
  
  The game is still fun, don't get me wrong. Drums are fun to learn, singing is naturally like karaoke 
 (except better) , and you can at least pass guitar songs. Solos are well handled, as is overdrive, 
 aka star power, as you can get more of it while you're already using it, unlike in Guitar Hero. 
 Plus, you can "save" other band members with it, although that system doesn't work that well unless 
 you have a guitarist or bassist, the only band members who can use overdrive whenever they want.
 
  
  The only addition to this version is five more songs, which isn't much of an addition in the first 
 place. But that includes Ramones and All-American Rejects, so I'm not exactly complaining, but 
 it doesn't make up for how much the game's been cut up.
  
  Should you get it? Well, no. If you do, it's not like you'll hate it; you'll have fun. But with 
 World Tour basically doing better on Wii than on any other system, with less sound problems, an 
 extra mode, and DLC, plus the guitars being better and the history of Guitar Hero III and the pretty 
 good Guitar Hero: Aerosmith, it's a much better choice to go with Guitar Hero on this one. It's 
 a different story on 360 and PS3, where it's a closer competition. Rock Band might even be superior 
 on those, but on Wii, don't look here for the best music game experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomiPetteri
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band for Wii is a good game, no doubt about it. But there's lot to be better.
  
  Tracklist is fine, good amount of songs from many genres. Most likely everyone will find few really 
 good songs there and the other ones are playable too even if they aren't right up your alley.
 
  
  Graphics are also pretty nice and the game sounds good.
  
  But..
  
  The guitar controller feels just really weak, and just wrong. It's not fun to play on hard/expert. 
 That's where the game loses most compared to Guitar Hero I'd think. Continuing about guitar; hammer-on/pull-off 
 -notes are too hard to recognize from the note chart. Other than that, on medium it's still pretty 
 fun.
  
  No online play, nothing to customize. Big letdown.
  
  Drums are lots of fun, and the game comes to its real value with friends but still after the money 
 you for it you can't help but to feel a little disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: powell333
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Its way better than rock band 2 because rock band 1 has better songs like Dani-California or Reptililia 
 or Run to the hills. But one of the down falls is that on the wii you can't create your band or 
 players though other than that its a really good game and fun with friends (especially when you 
 make them sing sabotage by beastie boys =-) so overall I give this a 9.0.
  P. S don't play drums without pads they're very loud. Plus don't sing if your shy when it comes 
 to singing because the game makes you sound bad on the microphone. But If you want a good deal 
 get the special pack it comes with everything you need and its way cheaper than buying the game 
 and the instruments not together. if you don't like the songs buy the track pack with 20 songs 
 some of them are good. (Don't let your friends spit on the mic it is really bad when that happens. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nabsol
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Now, this game is REALLY scaled down from the 360 and PS3 versions, because of the loss of Wi-Fi 
 mode and the loss of being able to customize your rockers. Not that customization really matters, 
 but I would like making a little copy of me for this game. The only real thing that makes up for 
 the loss of Wi-Fi and customization is that this game features 5 new songs and wireless guitars. 
 You still need to put a wireless thing in the back of your Wii to use the Guitars, Drum, and Microphone. 
 The game features a lot of great artists (but not necessarily their best hits) . Now, something I 
 really hate is that because of the lack of Wi-Fi, you need to go out and spend 30 bucks on a Track 
 Pack, which is the same game with a few new songs. Plus, there is no order for the songs, they 
 just are randomly placed. This game can be fun-while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flightofdragon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  I've recently heard there'll be a Rock Band 2 coming out and let's all hope it was as good as the 
 original! This is so much fun as a multiplayer that you really can't help having a blast with who 
 you're playing with. I'm a percussionist (A. K. A. drummer) in real life so it's awesome that there 
 are now drums in the mix :) . This game has a good assortment of songs and I never get tired of 
 listening to them. I would only complain that the Guitar Hero 3 guitars don't work so that sucks. 
 Rock Band may be expensive but I think it's worth it. I also agree with Gamespot when they say 
 that the true gaming experience you get from Rock Band is when you're playing with other people. 
 It rocks too that the guitars are wireless and that they have smaller buttons (I like to use the 
 smaller buttons-I don't know why) . This game maybe isn't a must-get just because it's expensive 
 (it's good though) but if you have the money, I say go for it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g3noc1d3r
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 23, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  I have to say this i have rock band for all consoles but i felt it right to review this because 
 it needed it. The version was released late yes it was but does it continue the same well yes and 
 no and this is why here goes. First in the 360/ps3 versions there was a way to customize and create 
 characters and use them but in this u are stuck with the same ones forever but thats not the only 
 thing out there is no download able content at all meaning no mor songs to play after and also 
 forget about band world tour and that its gone now its just guitar hero u just play right through 
 it and thats it. One thing that bugs me is that this version is not that in the same feeling of 
 the others but for wii owners its pretty good alright im gonna get this done fast here goes. The 
 instrument peripherals are all white to match the wii iguess but it does not suit the game very 
 well the ps3 version did fit it better but whatever right they feel the same and do great now one 
 thing in this this game even dumbs down the difficulty that already seemed downed from guitar hero 
 for the drums so it easier but anyway its a great party game for the wii outside of wii sports. 
 But there is one thing about this i played this with my friends but did not seem to have fun probaly 
 beacuse i was the only won doing okay on it but then i decided on to go to the solo and had fun 
 so i thought i should gt over it so i did this is still very fun and i know this will be a great 
 addition on any consoles so enjoy it well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason2guy
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 23, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band for the Wii is highly identical, just less features. The gameplay is just amazing, but 
 you could tell that it is indentical to other consoles. All I can say is that it's really really 
 fun playing this game with your friends. Despite no online, it doesn't make it a huge factor of 
 a letdown. The graphics on this game are pretty good despite the graphics from the Xbox 360 and 
 the PS3. Rock out with your friends as you play your instruments to bring down the show. No worries 
 if you have 4 people, grab in a Guitar, Bass, Drums, and Vocals and rock the house down! A strum 
 is included with the guitar making this game a more realistic exprience like no other, well Guitar 
 Hero.... So yea highly identical, just fewer features yet awesome gameplay. If your looking for 
 a massive party game appropiate for all ages? Rock Band for the Wii is a definite purchase for 
 the whole family. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aires457
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  Rockband for the wii was a total letdown. It costed me and my brother $173.00 more than half the 
 price of our wii. It would have been worth it if they had a character creator or downloadable content 
 like the Xbox 360 had but it didn't. Ok something here needs explaining. You can download wiiware 
 from the wii. But you can't download songs for Rockbandcan someone please explain this to me!!!! 
 Rockband had good songs for me because I'm Christian and guitar hero 3 had song like the number 
 of the beast and raining blood. Two songs I did not enjoy. But Rockband has songs like should I 
 stay or should I go by the clash and wanted dead or alive by bon jovi. Also Rockband made the notes 
 fun to play like if you compare paranoid in Rockband to paranoid in guitar hero 3 the notes are 
 so much more fun to play in Rockband. Anyway besides the better songs Rockband had nothing good 
 about it. I'm looking forward to guitar hero world tour which last time I checked on the forums 
 costed  More than the cost of the wii!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cemix360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  If you were to compare this game 2 games like Brawl, where you could master a character and never 
 let anyone you know win, you would find that this sort of game is ona better side than other games. 
 Its not, of course, a fighting game, but it IS a friendly, equal,  
 type of game. And, if someone totaly new to games were to play this, it gives you the option of 
 letting that poor ignorant person lower the level ov difficulty, so even he could ge 60% on it. 
 I only got to play a little bit of it with my friends, so i know how that feels like to be that 
 person (at least on the drums, i play GH3, so got guitar covered) but from what i saw from it, it 
 was amasing. the only problem i had with it was the cult, swearing, and booze mentions (im a big 
 bro) . couldn't they leave that behind in the next one? probably not, but its a wish. Anyways, it's 
 a great game and i hope that the next one is even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is cool, and it was definitely an improvemint from Guitar Hero, because when you think 
 about it, who wants to play a guitar, when you can play guitar, bass guitar, drums, and sing? Although, something 
 that was pretty annoying was, you have to wait forever just to get it because it wasn't originally 
 released on the Wii. Another problem, is that with the guitars, you can't put your Wii remote in there. And 
 the drums look like they're techno drums or something. But, it's a good game overall, and there is 
 a good ammount of songs in the game. There are, however, a couple songs that I can't stand!! They are 
 Maps, and also Dead or Alive. They all just suck so much, and I don't understand why anybody would 
 like this. Oh well, I don't have to listen to them anymore. I would definitely get this game (if I 
 didn't already own the game) . Well, you'll like this game and I can't wait for Guitar Hero World 
 Tour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mahan-k
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  For the first time, I though that rock band is just a copy of guitar hero. But when I started the 
 game, I had
  found many differences between them. The first difference
  is difficulty level. Guitar hero was a very hard game.
  But rock band is not hard like guitar 
 hero. Normal level in rock band likes the easy level in guitar hero.
  The second difference is about the musical instrument. 
  In guitar hero you can only play the 
 guitar. But in rock band you can play drum and guitar. Even you can sing
  with rock band mic! Now the third difference (and the last
  one!) . Rock band sound tracks are really 
 better than guitar hero. Also they are more than guitar hero. In rock
  band you can play the songs like  and many other songs. These 
 are really better than asong like hitmewithyourbestshot!
  At last, I really love this game. awsome game play and too many beautiful songs. If you have WII, You 
 need to play this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: B-Rank
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Sweat makes your fingers slide across the fret board faster as you tear apart the solo. The lead 
 singer screams into the mic, and the drummer smashes the crash symbol, the guitarists throw their 
 guitars towards the sky, and the band goes into overdrive! The glory of finishing a song as a team! 
 Through trials and pain, play through all the songs with your band... But don't expect to make 
 your own characters, or choose what gig to play at. Unlike other systems you lack all customization 
 abilities. Also, you lack the ability to play across the world. Still, you get to play the songs 
 as a band, and have a lot of fun in the process. The graphics are equal, and the gameplay with 
 your band just as good. If you haven't played it on the other systems, then its most definately 
 worthy of your money, but not at full price. Overall it's a great game, but Rock Band 2 is just 
 around the corner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gojoepalmer
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  With Rock Band out for a while now on the Xbox 360, Ps3, and Ps2, you'd think it's late for it 
 to come out on the Wii. However, Wii-lovers will enjoy the experience if they are rock fans. 
 
  
  The Rock Band Wii Bundle comes with the same items as the other bundles: A microphone, drum kit, 
 and a wireless guitar controller shaped like a Fender Stratocaster. Also (of course) a USB hub 
 and the game are included. Like the other version the Wii edition has great gameplay no matter 
 what instrument you choose.
  
  Guitar hero fans can easily play the guitar and bass. However you have to have the Rock Band guitar 
 controller if you want to play guitar or bass, the guitar hero 3 controller is not compatible. 
 If you're not familiar to Guitar hero, the concept easy to understand. The Drum kit is similar 
 to ones on the other systems only the Wii edition is white in color and the pads feel a little 
 softer. The microphone also is unchanged for its role. You can sing along to any song (if you sing 
 at the right pitch) and use as a tambourine at times and even a cowbell for Blue yster Cult's 
 "Don't fear the Reaper" And of course you can have up to four players to play the song's, although 
 you'll need an extra guitar controller. And the learning curve is a bit easy for any instrument. 
 This makes it a great game for things such as parties or if you simply have four people who wanna 
 play Rock Band
  
  This leads me to the next part: the soundtrack. Like the others for different systems, the soundtrack 
 is great, espically for a rock lover. It contains hits such as Bon Jovi's "Wanted Dead or Alive", 
 Rush's "Tom Swayer", The Ramones "Blitzkrieg Bop", The Who's "Won't get fooled again", Metallica's 
 "Enter Sandman", Aerosmith's "Train Kept A-Rollin", The Clash's "Should I Stay or Should I Go", 
 and The Police's "Next to You". Since the Wii doesn't support downloable content (or at least for 
 now) 5 extra songs that were downloadable content have been added to the Wii edition. These extra 
 5 include The Police's "Roxanne" , The B-52's "Roam," The All-American Rejects "Dirty Little Secret", 
 Oasis' "Don't Look Back in Anger," and "Rockaway Beach" by The Ramones. And Harmonix plans to release 
 series of "Track Pack" expansions which will contain the other songs that are downloadable content 
 on the Xbox 360 and Ps3. The first track pack should be released on July 15,2008.
  
  Now the downsides to the Wii edition of Rock Band is that it lacks online features for the internet, 
 you can't customize your characters (but then again you may forget about it and focus on the gameplay) 
 and the crowd doesn't sing along like it does sometimes on the Ps3 and Xbox 360. And while the 
 graphics are great, they're not as good like the 360's or Ps3's.
  
  So in my opinion if have a Xbox 360 or Ps3 along with your Wii, it's better to get the Rock Band 
 for those system's. But if you lack a Xbox 360 or Ps3, but have a Wii it's a good idea to get the 
 game. And if you also have a ps2 (like I do) I'd defiantly get the Wii edition for the 5 extra 
 songs.
  
  Overall Rock Band, Wii edition is a great game but the Rock Band for 360 and Ps3 is better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbplayer
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 20, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is almost exactly the same as Guitar Hero. I do not get how every one likes these games! 
 You just press buttons! Okay this game is better than Guitar Hero because it had extra's Guitar 
 Hero didn't. Customize your own character! Now how fun is that. They also have a tour mode which 
 can be somewhat fun. Another installment is the micraphone and drums. The drums is almost the same 
 as the guitar but the singing, you could just hum the words! It is actully better if you hum! Now 
 the drums are a bit harder since you can't see the colors well. Another feature is that you can 
 use 2 guitars! 
  -Breakdown- 
  fun 3.0 
  creativity 10 
  overall7.0 
  I can not see the bright side of this game. Please rent it first. Now back to my real band! But 
 anyway rock band 2 better be good or else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jatly0
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  The Wii version of Rock Band came out a little late but it is still great! The ONLY differences 
 between this version and the 360 and PS3 versions are the character customization and on-line play 
 / DLC. This version of Rock Band is mainly focused on offline play. This version hosts a High Score 
 board which none of the other versions host. This version also comes with more stocked songs than 
 the other versions come packed with. This game still comes packed with the solo and multi-player 
 features such as the solo and mulit-player tours so no need to worry about being left out. Song 
 packs are also being released for this game until a Rock Band channel is established for DLC. SO 
 basicly, the only difference is no on-line play. Even though there is no on-line play just yet, 
 Rock Band for Wii is still a great game to play alone or as a 4-player rock group. Rock-On Rock 
 band! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingdom3455
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  With vocals, guitar, and drums, rock band offers a lot more than Guitar hero did, and this game 
 honestly made guitar hero look like a futile game to buy. You are actually allowed to customize 
 you character, and make him you spitting image of the perfect rock star, or have a custom made 
 band. 
  
  In the song variety, it was great! Many of the songs I was looking forward to were in there, and 
 were fun to play no matter the instrument. The guitar is much easier to use, now that a set of 
 buttons has been put lower on the guitar, and I found is easier in rock band to hit more notes, 
 than in guitar hero.
  
  When I had come to vocals, I was pretty curious how it would work. I already knew that you didn't 
 have to sing, you could just have to pitch at the needed level. Either way, vocals was pretty fun 
 too, and simple to use.
  
  Drums, I found hard, and needed more time to get use to, considering I had never played drums. 
 It was still fun to play however.
  
  What I found useful was the fact that you can stop playing when you don't hit the notes, and star 
 power is actually required to keep on playing with however many people you started with. All in 
 all, this game is great and is needed by everyone who thought guitar hero was a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiplay1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  When Guitar Hero came into play, it promised a full-fledged experience as a rock star. It was a 
 little lacking that all you could do is rock, and that is when Harmonix realized that Rock Band 
 came. A non-lacking experience was mandatory; Drums with a kick pedal, a realistic guitar, and 
 of course, a mic. Not many other developers have thought of this, which is one way this game has 
 amazed all.
  
  When you are in a band, you will have a drummer, a guitarist, a bass guitarist, and of course, 
 a singer. The main attraction is drumming due to the fact that there has never been a game in the 
 North American market with a realistic drum set.
  
  The special edition includes a guitar, microphone, and the drums set. It also comes with a USB 
 hub. It's costly at $170, but depending on how you use it, it might be worth your money.
  
  The first time you play, the tracklist is short, but no worries, all the other songs are unlocked 
 by advancing through solo or band tour.
  
  Solo is probably no fun, but playing with other people is some of the purchase. You can play with 
 up to 3 other people, 4 in all. One instrument is no fun, but when you are playing with others 
 with other people, you create something and it is just amazing.
  
  Too bad most of the thing is stripped down. This 'tour' is just a tracklist, nothing more. After 
 you complete an act, a little thing pops up telling you something like you unlocked an act, or 
 you got free drum sticks. But what is the point? The thing will just lose you in a simple 5 minutes.
 
  
  Hardware reliability is also a concern. The kick pedal takes some force, but enough can brake it. 
 Some of the retail microphones have also come out busted. The drums for me came out like someone 
 was trying to open the pads. EA has a limited 60-day warranty, but that may not be enough.
  
  Well, all in all, it's a good game. It comes with practice mode and tutorials, and a few extras 
 about the development, but it's not much more than the PS2 version. There are 5 extra songs to 
 make up for the delay, but is that really worth it?
  
  If you are looking to start a party, definitely buy Rock Band. Instead of two playing and the other 
 two on the couch watching, all four can play and the band experience is phenomenal. You'll actually 
 yell at one person for screwing up the whole band, it just feels realistic and is so far the best 
 Music/Rhythm game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chrism262
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 7, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Ok, it's all about playing the songs. You can play alone with one of the instruments, or you can 
 play with multiple people. That's all dandy. It is quite apparent that they decided that Wii owners 
 want this game purely for the ability to play the music and absolutely nothing else.
  
  I never realized until now how much I appreciate the little unlockables and scores in games. In 
 Rock Band it tracks how many stars you got on a song, but overall it just doesn't matter. There 
 are no real consequences to anything. No benefits to doing well. Not even a high score list for 
 comparisons. No reason to try to ace a song. 
  
  Personally I think this version of the game is sorely lacking. It feels very incomplete in the 
 sense that it's like somebody ripped huge portions out of it and never tied the loose ends back 
 together. For example, when completing one "set" of songs it brings up a dialog about how you have 
 been sponsored by some company and they're providing you with stuff. Well... who cares? What does 
 that have to do with anything? Nothing... in this version. Not removing that kind of stuff seems 
 sloppy. In the end it feels more like a demo for versions on the 360 and the PS3.
  
  The drums are fun... but they're incredibly noisy to the point of distraction. They've accepted 
 this is a problem and already announced that in Rock Band 2 they're going to be quieter. Why not 
 fix the Wii version now since they already know the problem and the solution? The guitar is ok... 
 but I absolutely hate the strumming button. There is no feedback whatsoever from it. I understand 
 that it may be desirable for it to be quiet, but with the other keys clacking away with each press 
 it hardly makes any difference anyway. Strumming several notes in a row very close to each other 
 is an exercise in futility. It just doesn't feel responsive enough. I swapped guitars with a friend 
 to make sure it wasn't just an issue with my guitar because honestly it felt like something may 
 just be broken with it. Unfortunately not, they were the same.
  
  So in the end you'll play through all the songs once, find a few you like and play those ones a 
 bit more. When friends come over you'll play those most-liked songs a few more times. Then what? 
 You'll probably realize it was a waste of money and move on to something else. 
  
  Lastly, the audio quality seems very poor. I have quite a good surround sound system and the quality 
 is very noticeable to me. If just playing with TV speakers maybe it won't be so noticeable. Perhaps 
 this is a limitation of the space constraints for the Wii, but for a game that is all about the 
 music, this is pretty disappointing.
  
  For comparison sake I find Guitar Hero 3 on the Wii to be much more fun. The unlockables, the guitar 
 feedback, etc. just make for a far more enjoyable experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spleenm
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  The Bad:
  I'll start with the bad because there are really a few things that burn me pretty good about this 
 game and ulitmately cast a bad mark against the game companies for their decisions.
  
  This game is the same game as XBox minus the really cool story-mode type game that keeps you trying 
 to strive for the top-level scores. Had I known this, I likely would not have spent all the money 
 I had to spend to completely replace guitars from Guitar Hero and just waited to save up for a 
 360 instead. Blocking the compatability was a real assinine move that puts Activision at the top 
 of my list for game companies that screwed the consumer.
  
  The online mode is noticably gone. We've had the game for a week and already interest is dying 
 off. Pretty big waste if you ask me.
  
  The Good:
  I play with my boys. We all still have family fun and make the best of it. 
  
  Overall:
  
 
  I regret buying this on the Wii. Great game, but ultimately I shelled out a lot of money for a 
 game I should have bought on the 360. What a disappointment in that respect alone! If you can only 
 buy it for the Wii, think about the points above before you jump in like I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexGSGSGS
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 4, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  I loved the game Rockband when I first played it with a friend on the Xbox 360 console, and the 
 next week I I heard that the Rockband was comming to the Wii, and I had high expectactions for 
 that game. After all those months waiting for that game, I found out the Wii version is nothing 
 compared to the 360 version so it kinda let me down. To start you can't create your own character. 
 Second, no online features. Third and most frustrating fact is that you can't use a GH controller, 
 and I really hate the RB controller because of the strumbar (hey at least in the 360 and PS2 verion 
 you were allowed to use a GH controller) , so I'm going to say to Harmonix, "forget it, I'm not 
 going to buy a 2nd guitar which costs $60-$70." Oh well
  
  Now the good things
  To start of the game is still fun and very enjoyable. Even my dad likes it and doesn't even like 
 video games that much. My favorite instrument is the drum kit (I really like what Harmonix did 
 with the drums for the wii version) . The 5 extra songs are cool, I really like the songs "Roxanne" 
 and "Dirty Little Secret". The graphics are awesome, but I really don't care about the side visuals, 
 since I focus more on the notes.
  
  Overall
  The game is good and I do recommend it, but if you have a 360 and a Wii, I would recommed the 360 
 version cause of the the features. Harmonix made us wait all this time and by the looks of it, 
 they didn't put much effort in it (like I've said before, 3rd party companies aren't making much 
 effort for the wii games) , but hey, the game is still enjoyable and fun, but come on man "WHY CAN'T 
 WE USE A GH CONTROLLER D:" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lancethelion
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Betchya can't guess how nintendo messed this perfect game up...................
  
  Ok so this game was freakin' awesome on the xbox 360, i played it with friends all the time. I 
 was wondering if anything was going to change with the wii version...
  
  opening the package and hooking it all up is confusing and disappointing; first off the wiring 
 was a bad idea because of the usual ease of the wii (ive never used a USB cable on any nintendo 
 protuct before) and disappointing because of it's many wires.
  
  the gameplay is good but disappointing... YOU CANT MAKE YOUR OWN CHARACTER!! Also the not downloading 
 songs is no good. Other than that is the same.
  
  the drums are a little glitchy (but cool looking in white) but other than that all the controllers/instruments 
 are normal.
  
  overall an addicting, fun game is more than just the average game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brysterdude
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Perfect for a party: drums, bass, guitar, microphone. Four people per song, feel free to rotate. 
 It's fun, end of story, everybody will love it and have a good time! The song selection sometimes 
 needs an acquired taste sometimes, though...
  
  Amazingly fun alone: if you're sick and don't have anything to do today, just pick up the guitar, 
 drums or Microphone, and start a solo career! Unfortunately, bass does not have it's own solo career, 
 but in multiplayer, bass groove is the most important five-star-getter!
  
  Excellent Replay Value?: Hardly considered replay value, because there is always something fun 
 to do, quick-play alone is all you need for a fully-functional small party! 
  
  I promise you all 100% that you will love Rock Band, and with the new 20-song packs they're making 
 will just make it THAT much more enjoyable! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ganalon71
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  My friends and I are avid Rock Band players (actually went so far as to get matching rocker shirts, 
 I know that's lame but hey) on the 360, so I was really excited to hear that the Wii was getting 
 this great title. When we played it, we were shocked to realize that there were some crucial things 
 missing that made Rock Band fun for us. Downloadable content aside (though being able to use an 
 SD card or a USB hard drive for downloadable songs would have been nice) , I love the avatar aspect 
 and world tour. What makes the game great is seeing all the rockers in the background going postal 
 as you hit those expert rifts, as well as seeing your band play at all those venues. 
  Being able to create your band (our band was called Spell Cheque) , the world venues you could play, 
 even the really cheesy objectives (like getting a sound crew or a manager, was fun. And it forced 
 you to get better you couldn't get the fans needed to play bigger arenas unless you played at 
 a more difficult level. 
  It's more than just playing the songs, though what 30-something doesn't like cranking out some 
 Foo Fighters or even Boston. Those who have played Rock Band on other platforms will still feel 
 wanting after playing the Wii version.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 29, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  I ran out like many Wii owners to purchase Rock Band a couple weekends ago in anticipation of a 
 game that exploded on the other current generation systems. I raced home, opened the box, put together 
 the instruments and got rocking with my friends and family. I can definitely say that I enjoyed 
 it instantly, but after considering the differences a little more carefully, I have some issues 
 with the long-awaited edition of the game.
  
  Let's start with the makeup of the game. There are the solo and band options to enjoy. The basic 
 premise is setup closely like Guitar Hero, but there is less emphasis on the lead guitar. Instead, 
 it is directed to allow players to choose one of four instruments (though I assume that Guitar 
 Hero World Tour will probably adapt this style as well) . The Wii edition has all of the same songs 
 as the other systems, plus 5 special additions (I will get to that later) . Included in the fantastic 
 lineup are Radiohead's Creep, Stone Temple Pilots' Vasoline, Boston's Foreplay/Long Time, Hole's 
 Celebrity Skin, The Police's Roxanne, and many more. It covers a wide range of rock-type genres 
 and has you complete sets to progress to more songs. A personal favorites when I saw it was Timmy 
 and the Lords of the Underworld, mainly because I am a fan of South Park and enjoy the novelty 
 additions (like Trogdor in GH II) .
  
  I am going to skip talking about all of the mechanics of the game and just mention a few things. 
 The star power concept is nice because you can use star power and keep it going with more star 
 phrases, unlike GH. There are also special star power-like options for each instrument. Vocals 
 can belt out to activate with star power, but there are also rhythm sections where you simulate 
 beating a tambourine or a cowbell. The lead guitar has solo sections, which translate into points 
 depending on percentage rate of accuracy. Bass guitar has a nice feature of bass grooves, which 
 allow you to go beyond 4x multiplier without activating star power. Drums are the only instrument 
 that don't really have anything truly special, except that star power is activated through improv 
 sections thrown into the songs. For the instrument players, there are sometimes big rock endings 
 with complete improv and ending notes to rack up the score just a bit more before finishing.
  
  So, with all of that said, there a several things missing from the game. Those items missing 
 are:
  1) Internet connectivity - both to play online and download additional tracks
  2) Player customization - you never get to select what you look like
  3) Graphics - not equal 
 to the other system but still damn good
  Let me break these down a little further.
  
  There is no online in this version of the game (also with the PS2) . Maybe it will be added in a 
 future version, but you will have to stick with GH to get that fix. The only option you have to 
 competitive play is if someone brings the same equipment over and hooks it up for a 1 on 1 match. 
 As for the downloading piece, it is a huge drawback to this version of the game. Of course, there 
 will be song packs released in stores periodically to allow Wii-owners to play all of the same 
 songs, but there is no choice in what they will be. Hopefully they find a way to make it work a 
 little better in the future.
  
  Although not a necessary feature, many people like to create their avatars when they play video 
 games. There a some pre-set bands created for the game, and you just have to accept that. This 
 honestly is a very minor issue and not really even worth worrying about.
  
  Graphics are something that many people complain about with the Wii and say that the system is 
 inferior, but honestly I could barely tell the difference. It was much more noticeable with GH 
 III than with Rock Band.
  
  All in all it is a lot of fun, and I will probably be playing it quite a bit and inviting others 
 to enjoy it as well. I look forward to the release of the first bonus track pack on July 15th, 
 as well as any additional ones they decide to release. On a personal note, I have to say that both 
 GH and RB have brought out an appreciation of certain music that I have just not thought about 
 in a while and it really does make you want to learn how to play for real. I hope that others are 
 feeling the same thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Templar45
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  i'll admit i've never playe rockband.
  
  but i've had my fair share of informtion involving Rockband.
  
  the wii version, is lacking 
 The Character Creater, Online Play, and Downloads....
  
  all of which severaly hinder a gamers motivation to purchase Rockband.
  
  another set back 
 is the fact that the Guitar Hero: Legands of Rock guitar won't work for the wii version of Rockband...
 
  
  so there is no saving yourself $60 on a second guitar.....
  
  Never the less Rockband is a reat Rythm game! and the wii was designed to simply get the famliy/friends 
 together and have fun and Rockband is just one of their many games that do so!
  
  As far as th story goes, the city to city gameply is missing aswell....
  
  so you simply are 
 given a set of songs to complete, in order to continue.
  
  just like guitar hero...
  
  but with 63 songs (that 5 more songs than the 360 or PS3 verions) and friends to rock out with 
 Rockband is still worth getting!
  
  worth the price? i personally don't care, im willing to pay it but i can't say it's worth it... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amesomeness
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 27, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band Wii offers a great multiplayer experience but i have to wonder what took so long it is 
 the same as the PS2 version. The game doesn't sound so good because the audio is compressed. The 
 drums are better than the PS3 and 360 ones. I am dissapointed that there is no character creator 
 and World Tour mode. I understand that WOrld Tour Mode won't probably fit in a regular wii disk. 
 The charater creator could of been fitted into there. Guitar Hero World Tour will have a music 
 creator and charater customization and promises to do everything rock band can't. PLus the wii 
 version of Guitar Hero World Tour will have DLC while ROck Band Wii doesn't. In replacement for 
 the World Tour mode they have a Guitar Hero type thing. You just play through the set list. Rock 
 Band offers a lot of fun. But Guitar Hero World Tour is coming out later this year so you should 
 wait for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kinghal
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 17, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  I started out playing GH3 before any other game in this genre. Loved that game but wanted more 
 instruments. So, a friend had Rockband on PS3 and clued me in. It had a slightly different feel 
 to it. I was thrown off by the curved note bar and different time to hit the buttons (compared 
 to GH3) . but got used to it. Now I have my own copy on the Wii and love it. I would have liked 
 to have had the ability to create my own character (s) but can live without that. What I really 
 miss from GH3 were the little extras. I know the main point is to rock out, which I love to do. 
 However, the little things make the experience whole. Like being able to buy outfits, characters, 
 guitars and even songs with the points you earned in the game. I understand that you can buy songs 
 in Rockband but I don't like spending money if I don't have to. Also, I would love to see the option 
 to play solo in band mode when I want to play alone. 
  
  Other notes:
  
  Guitar playing seems to be easier in Rockband than it was in GH3. 
  Drums are pretty challenging 
 on Easy setting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happybara
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  the only problems are that there are not many songs here i know, and no costomization. online play 
 dosent matter and you can buy new songs on cd format so i think people are just giving this a hard 
 time. i play games because of the gameplay not shiny graphics or dlc so GIVE ROCKBAND WII A  
 !!!!!!!! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
  if you want graphics wait for "THE FORCE UNLEASHED" and if you want dlc GET A 360! the wii is about 
 fun... do you know what that means? FUN! somthing that is ENJOYABLE. GOOD GRAPHICS AND DLC DONT 
 MAKE FUN SO THERE NOT ON THE WII! customization is fun so im disapointed but still...... systems 
 have themes and rockband WII does a good job of fitting the WII's theme of good game play and the 
 360's rockband fits the 360's theme of graphics 1st, points of intrest 2nd, and gameplay 3rd. SO 
 DONT COMPARE THEM! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: residentevil47
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  Ever since it was released before the Holiday season last year for the 360, PS2 and PS3 people 
 have been wanting Rock Band to come to the Wii console and finally it has.
  
  The Wii version is constantly being compared to the 360 and PS3 versions showing what the Wii version 
 is missing. Just because it doesn't have online, or BWT with create a character doesn't mean it's 
 a bad game because Rock Band for Wii is a awesome game. Do you really need to make your own character 
 in a game to have fun.
  
  Yes, the game is a stripped down version of the original game but it doesn't make the experience 
 bad. The graphics (for Wii) are amazing and almost up to 360 level not that you need graphics for 
 this type of game, the frame rate is stable and does not fool you up. And of course the song list 
 is great ranging for 60's rock songs to modern day tunes.
  
  The price tag of 169.99 isn't cheap but neither was Guitar Hero III for Wii which also didn't include 
 things that for the same price the 360 and PS3 did, but yet it is the best selling version of the 
 game to date and is just as much fun.
  
  Sure the Wii version is missing some elements that added to the Rock Band experience but it still 
 has the core gameplay and will be just as good when you sit down to play a couple of song with 
 you're friends on a Friday night. I recommend!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exe878
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Its a good game at heart, but i think it's B. S. that Harmonix decided to rule out just about everything 
 that made the X360/PS3 versions well...
  
  ... just about everything they are. A huge dissapointment to Wii exclusive gamers. I think that 
 Activision has the upperhand in the music game struggle thus far. I mean, with Gh3 Activision still 
 kept everything about the X360/PS3 versions in the Wii game, save DLCs, HD graphics, and two characters.
 
  
  Aside from this, I think somethjing even more sad is that in place of awesome features such as 
 the World Tour, Character Creator, and Rock Shop, Harmonix left us with five bonus songs that are 
 already availiable as DLC on the other versions of the game.
  
  I guess It's not too much to gripe about but I would enjoy being able to partake in the full Rock 
 band experience without having to go out and buy another console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameRuler1
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  This Game is really fun only because of the songs. Some Features like the Band tour were taken 
 away. All you do in Band Tour is pretty much go through acts and switch bands every song. Just 
 look at your Band changing every song. It gets really boring. This Game Really needs a Recall or 
 a Dramatic price drop. The 5 New bonus songs are pretty good too but overall this game needs help. 
 Don't get it and wait for a Price drop or for Guitar Hero Aero Smith or GH World tour if you want 
 one with Drums and Singing. So This Game gets a pretty low score. Im Not Complaining about the 
 Clothing part but what about the Actually Touring. Not Just playing music. At Least GH3 had Guitar 
 Battles to spice things up. WARNING: DO NOT BUY NOT WORTH THE HYPE OR PRICE! Although Drums look 
 cool. Only the Guitar is wireless and the graphics are HORRIBLE. They are completly Blurry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: immsm
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band for Wii is awesome. I've read reviews that call it a stripped down version but not having 
 played it on other systems, I think it's great. I like Guitar Hero III and have enjoyed rocking 
 away on the guitar on it. What I like about Rock Band is the ability to play guitar, bass, drums 
 and sing. I've always wanted to be a drummer so this is my chance to pretend! The guitar seems 
 easier than Guitar Hero but I'm still on the easy level so it should get harder as I progress through 
 the levels. I must say I prefer the guitar from Guitar Hero to the one that comes with Rock Band 
 and I think it would have been better if the Guitar Hero guitar could be used for Rock Band like 
 it can for other systems. As an older adult who has just recently gotten into video games I was 
 hesitant about buying this rather expensive game but I'm glad I did. I'm enjoying my fantasy rock 
 career! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebinary
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  I think people are slightly overreacting to the couple of ommissions in the wii version of this 
 game. At the end of the day, all I want to do is play all these songs with my friends and family. 
 
  
  And this version rocks hard in that regard.
  
  I haven't had the slightest urge to start a tour - I just unlocked all the contents and jumped 
 in. 
  
  I was a pro musician for years, playing mostly keyboards, and some guitar and bass. I own a $2K 
 Roland electronic drum kit too.
  
  I'm writing this review after three days of hard play.
  
  Bottom line - I've learned more about 
 drumming in the last three days than in 5 years with my Roland kit gathering dust. I've mananged 
 to complete a handful of drum songs in Hard mode (with lots of practice, breaking down parts) . 
 I can imagine becoming a competent drummer in a few months, which is insane, really. Its always 
 been a challege to find a real drummer for our real bands. 
  
  I've never played Guitar Hero, so I don't have any GH chops to build on, just real guitar chops. 
 I've managed to finish some easier songs in Expert mode on guitar and bass. I think thats accurate, 
 because the real songs aren't that difficult, so expert shouldn't be any harder than playing the 
 real deal. Harder songs are going to take tons of practice I'm sure. 
  
  The vocals are a kick. My kid screams out some nonsense phrase everytime he wants to go into overdrive 
 and we all crack up.
  
  I am SO SO SO SO happy that I didn't get GH instead of this. After all, I've got 4 people in my 
 house, and while its fun to practice, its even better to totally rock out as a REAL BAND.
  
  Love it! Don't EVEN believe the haters. The important stuff is here. Buying rock clothing is 
 not what is cool about this game.
  
  BTW - it may help you get better to NOT have access to the whole universe of songs. It will force 
 you to learn some alternate styles and perfect them, rather than half-assing from one fav to the 
 next. Plus, you get Roxanne right out of the gate ;-) However, I am on the wait list for the next 
 songs :-D
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bassy26
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  Simply stated, they are most likely pre-rendered scenes that were recorded and pasted into the 
 background so the Wii doesnt have to "struggle" that much. But with that said its pretty much like 
 what you expected... Good but not Xbox 360 or PS3 quality.
  
  Sound:
  NOT DOLBY SURROUND SOUND. Oh that is just... OH HULK ANGRY HULK BASH DRUMS! That is a let down 
 but then again... the Wii doesnt really support that option now does it? What was I thinking? Hulk 
 sad, drums bashed too much...
  
  Gameplay:
  Um... need I say more? It plays just like the other Rockband games for the different systems... 
 You have to be a little dense to not understand that!
  
  Conclusion:
  Even though the game is missing a few options; Character Creation, DLC, and Online Gameplay, the 
 game is really enjoyable for any one to pick it up. Wii owners were warned in advances about not 
 recieving these options in this version of Rockband. If you wanted DLC, Character Creation, and 
 Online Gameplay then go buy an Xbox 360, or a PS3. Otherwise DO NOT get this game and complain 
 or whine about how this version "sucks and its a horrible game for not having it." Consumers for 
 the Wii were warned before hand; therefore, it is YOUR fault for buying a game that YOU knew did 
 not have the features the OTHER versions have that YOU wanted and did not recieve due to the lack 
 of THINKING. It sucks but hey still a pretty damn good game. 
  
  Other thoughts:
  Oh and for future refrences, if you looked in the box Harmonix has let the consumer know that July 
 15 ish is when they will release a Track Pack Vol. 1 hinting there will be more of these making 
 up for the DLC not being available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow4eva13
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  I bought this expecting Rock Band. What I got was something that was a complete letdown of what 
 it should be. No online features at all (GH III at least had a leaderboard and Online matches) 
 and no creation mode. It seems Harmonix just wanted to get it out and not worry about quality at 
 all. The drums are sometimes unresponsive and there are connection issues with the instruments.
 
  
  I would be happy if they dropped the price to accomadate our loss of features, but no, it's full 
 price, some one favored the 360 and PS3. The Wii is a next gen console, so there's no excuse. GH 
 III managed to accomplish online features (No DLC, but at least you could upload scores and play 
 online) , so why not Rock Band? It seems noone takes the Wii serious enough to make some good games 
 for it, or take the time to make a decent port.
  
  All in all, get GH III if you really want to rock out, or wait for World Tour. Bypass this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2Pro4Sh0
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 24, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  I expected Harmonix to do a better job with Rock Band. Unlike it's PS3 and XBOX 360 counterparts, 
 Wii's Rock Band is missing probably the best parts of the game. Firstly, the custom characters 
 is taken out. Yep, you don't get to make a personal character and rock out with them. Instead the 
 band is picked based on the genre of the music you're playing. "Dirty Little Secret", for example, 
 is played by a Punk Band. Secondly, the individual and multi-player tours were taken out. You don't 
 even get money for beating songs, the game just keeps track of your total points. Wii's Rock Band 
 is still a great party game to play, having everyone jam out, but otherwise, there's all this hype 
 for nothing. I personally enjoy playing because of the instruments, but hopefully the next multi 
 instrument game for Wii, Guitar Hero: World Tour will be much, MUCH better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarroth
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 23, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Unike many other people, I did not track the devlopment of Rock Band for the Wii. As such, when 
 I first played it with a group of friends this weekend, we were expecting the same amazing gameplay 
 that we found on our 360's. Instead what we found was a game that was oddly familiar in all the 
 wrong ways, and lacking much of what made the other versions so amazing.
  First I will explain the differences. The Wii version comes with several new songs that 360 and 
 PS3 players were able to download extra. The inclusion of the songs is a nice gesture, and makes 
 up for the Wii version coming out so late after the others. However, if there turns out to be a 
 lack of downloadable content totally for the Wii Rock Band, these extra few songs do not compare 
 to the dozens Wii owners miss out on.
  The instruments have been improved, sure. The drums are more like the second edition drums for 
 the 360, and are thus softer and supposedly better. For me, playing the drums was initially much 
 more difficult on the Wii than the 360. I found myself doing worse then than on the 360, missing 
 many notes because the drums were not registering the sticks contacting them. I was eventually 
 able to fix this problem by hitting the drums harder than I am used to on the 360 version.
  The wireless aspect of the instruments is very nice, but overall lacking, as not every instrument 
 is wireless anyway. We also had issues with the Guitar Hero III controller we were using to have 
 two guitars; because there was a Wii remote inside it, the game was initially recognizing us as 
 having two microphones (as the microphone also requires a Wii remote) , rather than a second guitar. 
 We were unable to fix this problem; while I am sure it can be fixed if we look into the situation 
 further, being unable to play the second guitar for a whole day was very disappointing, and something 
 that was never an issue on the 360.
  As for the drums being white, I do not understand the big deal. Yes, the Wii, Wii remotes, and 
 every other Wii device are white, but while the drums are white, the guitar and the microphone 
 are the same color as their 360 counterparts. Changing the color of the drums did little to make 
 the system any more appealing, especially now that it does not match the rest of the Rock Band 
 instruments.
  The gameplay, however, is most dissappointing. As a port of the PS2 version, Rock Band for the 
 Wii retains the Rock Band ability to have four people on four different instruments: Guitar, Bass, 
 Vocals, and Drums, and form a band to tour. However, the ability to tour across cities is not a 
 function on the Wii, which, while seeming like a small detail, in effect reduces the "Band World 
 Tour" option to nothing other than four-player Guitar Hero - the design has been done before (in 
 fact, can be done if you play Rock Band alone) and is boring compared to the other versions. The 
 World Tour aspects of Stars and Fans from the other systems is missing. What was nice about Rock 
 Band was that even once a band was able to unlock all the songs and complete the world tour, they 
 could continue to play to increase their Star and Fan numbers (as well as their overall score) , 
 and be ranked online. With this removed from the Wii version there is a drastic decrease in the 
 replayability of Rock Band.
  Also removed are the character customizing options. In the other versions, a character could be 
 created - name, hometown, their overall clothing style, looks, tattoos, makeup, hair, and dress. 
 New instruments could also be purchased. But the Wii version does not have the character customizing 
 ability, which also reduces replayability and hampers the feeling of a cohesive band. When each 
 band member can see themselves on stage, or on the cover of a magazine during the loading of a 
 song, and bands can optionally adopt similar dress to match each other on stage, there is a greater 
 connection to the characters and the game. The players forming their band feel much more like an 
 actual band and have a greater appreciation for Harmonix's game. In essence, the multiplayer is 
 simply better because of it. Without these options, players just see a random avatar on stage, 
 and I was left with the distinct feeling that that character was not me, and I lost a lot of the 
 enjoyment I felt otherwise.
  I still thoroughly enjoyed the game, but so much less so.
  To finish, Rock Band is indeed an amazing game. But the argument is not whether playing four different 
 instruments by yourself or with a friend is amazing - it is whether or not the Wii version is any 
 good. And, compared to the others, it simply isn't. Without many of the great options of the other 
 versions, the Wii Rock Band is simply a Guitar Hero III with two new instruments. If you have a 
 360 or a PS3, do not buy Rock Band on the Wii - get it on the other system, where it is much better. 
 If you only have a Wii, then I suggest you wait until Guitar Hero IV comes out, and hope that Activision 
 does not make the same mistake by cutting its Wii version off at the knees. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deltaman3
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  I knew it would happen, because the wii needs space, and same thing with rock band. It turns out 
 really well on the wii, because almost everything needs to be wireless, and the drums are now white, 
 not grey. The game will come out with all the normal songs PLUS 5 exclusive songs, as well as a 
 track pack CD to install on your console. ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK 
 BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK 
 BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK 
 BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK 
 BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK 
 BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK 
 BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK 
 BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK 
 BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! ROCK BAND RULES! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jett26
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is an amazing game. It's fun, addictive, it has variety, one of the best multiplayer 
 games that most people enjoy. But as we've seen so many times before the Wii gets the stripped 
 down version of a great game.
  Don't get me wrong it's still fun and all. But I mean come on, the Wii is easily capable of the 
 great Band World Tour mode in the 360/PS3 versions as well as the character creation.
  The 5 added songs are alright, nothing to "ride home about" but it' s a nice gesture. But it surely 
 doesn't make up for the missing DLC.
  But all in all it's still a great game, definetly worth picking up.
  Oh and the drums are white, 
 and the pads are a bit softer, make less noise.. but the drumsticks are made of a different kind 
 of wood that hurts your hands if you're playing drums often.
  Anyways, I love it either way :)
  I just think they could've done more with it. 
  Sweet game, 
 8.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codelyoko2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  This game does in fact rock more than the GH series it has enjoyable gameplay for a group of friends 
 wanting to party. It is pretty fun on solo and starting a world tour to spend on is worth the trip. 
 Though it is a PS2 port, it includes 5 extra tracks also if you have the wireless Nyko Frontman 
 guitar it works on both GH III and on Rock Band so it saves you the hassle of buying a guitar that 
 might not work on both games. Compared to the other systems it is just as good, the gameplay is 
 still the same as the others except it is wireless and white the only difference is that you can 
 buy the DLC songs at the stores and the graphics are less appealing but overall the game gets it 
 right and if you have a wii and you want to invite some of your friends over then this is the choice 
 for you. Great songs, and lots of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadpool088
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Sure everyone was excited about this at the announcment. But now it's here and... it was true.... 
 a real lousy port of the PS2 version... But there a few positives...
  
  1. Harmonix kept it's promise of keeping the core gamplay (*cough* which is pretty much impossible 
 to take away) in tact. Playing this game and going crazy with my family and friends is a blast.
 
  
  2. 5 extra (even though they are'nt the best) songs is a nice little addition to drag our attention 
 away from how watered down this game is.
  
  3. Cool graphics. Man I was shocked at how good they were on the Wii
  
  4. The peripherals 
 are much better then the ones shipped out on the other versions. By this time playing at my friends 
 house (360 version) he had already broken the kick pedal and I the strum bar. This set of "instruments" 
 put up well with the crazy antics my friends and I do
  
  
  Next time Harmonix, go the extra mile and not sit around and make just an ok game. Having all the 
 great features that the other versions have is just dissapointing. And Nintendo; make a Ferrari 
 like console next time... not a Mini Cooper.... Anyway this will greatly keep me active until GH: WT 
 comes out... Peace... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ItsRichie
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 22, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  this game was really disappointing, those cheap people from harmonix gave us a ps2 port even though 
 wii has way more to give but well, lets erase harmonix from the companies that respect wii... well 
 gameplay remains as good as others but they removed all that made the game unique, no characters, 
 no BWT, no DLC and no online so just stick out with Guitar Hero World Tour. the only advantage are 
 the 5 songs, the drums are white and supposed to be better (in someway) and the guitar is wireless 
 and at leats you can use the microphone from you little sisters High School Musical Game lol.
 
  The tracklist is the best one by far (bon jovi, foo fighters, aerosmith, boston, 30 seconds to 
 mars, the killers and much more) but who cares if they gave us a really lousy port, as I said before, 
 just stay with GH: WT... :P ROCK ON 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiimaker21
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  rockband for wii has a gameplay that would not let you stop playing, it is very good and i think 
 it a 9.0 out of 10 like the other rockbands. This is an awesome game and if you like to play music 
 or form a band with your friends this is the to make and maybe it dont have DLC but in july the 
 stores will be selling rockband pack volume 1 bringing over 20 more songs for you to play it on 
 your wii version. Dont lose your time trying to learn to play a guitar or some drums whn you can 
 learn easily on your rockband wii version. Many people think Nintendo is making a bad decision 
 to take out the character creator and the DLC, but Nintendo knows what is doing and if they take 
 it out is for a good reason and even if it doesn't has the DLC or character creator is still very 
 good. Rockband is a ver good game and i think it should be tie with the rockband of the XBOX 360 
 and the one of the PS3. Rockband rocks!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aquabfan
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  Before we start talking about its similarities to the older game, let's start with what's different 
 in Rock Band for the Wii. The game will ship with five songs that didn't ship with the 360 and 
 PS3 versions of the game: "Roxanne" by The Police, "Don't Look Back in Anger" by Oasis, "Roam" 
 by The B-52's, "Dirty Little Secret" by The All-American Rejects, and "Rockaway Beach" by the Ramones. 
 Rock Band fans will recognize these tunes as downloadable content in the other versions of the 
 game. Given that DLC is still up in the air for the Wii version, these five tracks, along with 
 the original songs that come with the other versions, seem to be the entire lineup of tunes. 
 
  The other aspect that's (slightly) different is the instruments: The guitars are wireless and 
 the drums are white. Other than the drum pads feeling slightly softer than the Xbox 360 and PS3 
 pads that we're used to, all of the instruments in Rock Band feel very familiar. That same level 
 of familiarity is also found in the game's look. The Wii does a pretty good job of maintaining 
 the look and feel of the other versions of the game. 
  As far as gameplay goes, it's really the same. There are differences to be noted, such as the lack 
 of character creation and online play, but we've known about this for some time also. This game 
 (much like every other game in the world) supports stereo sound! Unfortunately there's no Dolby 
 support, so no surround sound for you. You will have no problem beating the entire game and you 
 will find the replay value to be some of the best ever.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
