-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rockstar Games presents Table Tennis
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/tabletennis/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Three different, functional control schemes.
 Great sound design.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Motion controls fail to make the gameplay more tactile.
 Short on gameplay modes.
 Presentation feels indistinct.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 18, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.9, 38 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 214 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Rockstar Games
Developer: Rockstar San Diego
Genre: Tennis
Date: Oct 16, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's close, but Table Tennis is not as good a fit as it should have been on the Wii. 

  When Rockstar Games presents Table Tennis originally hit the Xbox 360 nearly a year and a half 
 ago, it offered a stripped-down and serious-minded ping-pong experience that backed up its breakneck 
 gameplay with a sweaty, realistic presentation. What it lacked in features, it made up for with 
 focus and intensity. On paper, Table Tennis on the Wii is a no-brainer. Tennis was arguably one 
 of the best experiences that Wii Sports had to offer; thus, the idea of marrying that kind of tactile 
 action with the gritty atmosphere and deep gameplay of what Rockstar did sounded potentially even 
 better than the original Table Tennis. In practice, the game comes close to accomplishing all of 
 these, but this isn't horseshoes or hand grenades, and coming close just leaves you pining over 
 misspent potential.  

           The wait between when you swing and when your player swings proves incredibly disengaging. 

  The new Wii-specific controls in Table Tennis attempt to split the difference between the gameplay 
 styles of Virtua Tennis and Wii Sports tennis in a few different ways. Your standard control scheme 
 uses only the Wii Remote and has you swinging it around as if it were an actual paddle. There's 
 a good amount of nuance to it because you can aim your shot by swinging the remote up, down, left, 
 right, or some combination thereof, and holding a direction on the D pad as you swing adds spin 
 to the ball. In this control scheme, the game handles all player movement and generally does a 
 good job, allowing you to focus entirely on your swing. The other two control schemes are basically 
 just permutations of this setup, though both make use of the Nunchuk to give you greater control 
 over specific aspects of the action. The control freak option uses the analog stick on the Nunchuk 
 for player movement, while the sharp shooter allows for more detailed control over ball placement. 

  All three options work pretty well, though in our experience, the control freak setup isn't as 
 useful as the other two because the game handles player movement well enough. Considering the depth 
 originally afforded on the Xbox 360, it's impressive how much made it here. Still, there are compromises 
 that sap the game of some of its kinetic feel. It's much more difficult to miss the table with 
 the standard control scheme, which makes the game much, much easier. The biggest problem, though, 
 is the incredible disconnect between your movement and the action onscreen. Rather than operating 
 on a one-to-one control scale, where what you see correlates directly to your movement in real 
 time, you can swing at any time that the ball is headed toward you, and your player will automatically 
 swing when the time is right. The game actually encourages you to swing as early as possible because 
 the strength of your spin is determined by how long you hold the D pad. It's entirely functional, 
 but it doesn't make you feel like you're  really  playing table tennis any more than the 360 version 
 did, which would seem like the whole point of bringing Table Tennis to the Wii in the first place. 

  Although the gameplay was surprisingly tense and exciting on the Xbox 360, the game's look -- which 
 featured incredibly detailed, lifelike players that are still pretty impressive -- was arguably the 
 big draw. Considering the chasm between the technical capacities of the Xbox 360 and the Wii, it 
 shouldn't be surprising that the visuals have been scaled back a bit. The game runs well enough, 
 but in the process of removing all the little technical tricks that gave the game such a distinctly 
 grimy feel, the game has lost much of its personality. The best-looking Wii games are those that 
 rely on the strength of their art style, rather than their technical prowess, to carry the visuals. 
 In the case of Table Tennis, the art style was originally so dependent on highly detailed textures 
 and subtle lighting effects that without them, it just looks kind of bland. The game still sounds 
 great, for what it's worth, with authentic-sounding crowds and table noises. One minor ding against 
 the sound concerns the paddle noise that comes out of the speaker on the Wii Remote, which you'll 
 hear whenever you swing it. It's a good way to let you know that your swing has registered, but 
 it also exacerbates the disconnect between your movement and the game, especially in a two-player 
 match.  

           It doesn't look bad for a Wii game, but it also doesn't have a ton of personality.    
   

  Outside of the different control schemes, Rockstar hasn't tinkered with the contents of Table Tennis 
 one iota. You've got the same gallery of 11 fictional, international ping-pong pros, each with 
 his or her own play style and attributes, as well as 19 different venues that range from rec center 
 to national stadium. The modes of play are still incredibly lean. There are three different tournaments, 
 as well as an exhibition mode where you can play against either the computer or another live player, 
 though unfortunately, online play has been omitted. It was much easier to excuse such a limited 
 number of options when the gameplay and the presentation were so razor-sharp on the 360, but here's 
 it's compounded by the other shortcomings of the Wii version.  

  Rockstar Games presents Table Tennis on the Wii feels like some kind of parable for developers 
 porting existing games to the Wii. Even if your game seems tailor-made for the platform and the 
 genre in question has seen previous success there, as was the case with Table Tennis, it's never 
 a sure thing.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  We'll admit it, not every developer seems to have worked out how to use the Wii Remote effectively. 
 Between unnecessarily frantic arm-waving and badly implemented tilting, there are some shabby examples 
 of how not to use the Wii Remote, so it's no surprise that we approached this with some trepidation. 
 It's not that we don't have faith in Rockstar; we're just very good at being pessimistic, that 
 all.
  
  Ping Your Pong
  Were we right to worry? Thankfully, no. In fact, the motion controls (spread over three different 
 control schemes that range from simple-but-effective to precision aiming) work a treat; providing 
 you accept that it's not Wii Sports tennis, that is. 
  
  
  You see, the movement of the Wii Remote and your player's paddle arm aren't actually linked in 
 real-time. Instead, swinging the Remote merely determines the direction of the ball and, if you're 
 holding a direction on the D-pad, the spin applied to it.
  
  The sooner you perform this action after your opponent has struck the ball, the harder your return 
 will be, while late swings result in fluffed shots. Essentially, the trick lies in swinging to 
 initiate your shot and then watching your player do it a brief moment later. We can understand 
 why most people would see that as a failure of the Wii controls but, as this is how it worked on 
 the superb Xbox 360 version, it really couldn't be any other way.
  
  A Bat Out Of Hell
  Once you appreciate that minor quirk, Table Tennis becomes incredibly playable very quickly. Playing 
 in multiplayer is where the real reward lies, although there's plenty of enjoyment to be had in 
 the single-player mode too. There's plenty to keep you coming back for more as well - unlocking 
 all the players and arenas is actually very rewarding, thanks to the skill-based way the secrets 
 are revealed. 
  
  Our only real gripe is that it makes no use of Nintendo Wi-Fi. The 360 version had it, so the Wii's 
 lack of it is noticeable. Still, at a budget price and jammed with playability, Table Tennis is 
 one of those sleeper hit titles you shouldn't miss out on 
::::::

::::::
UserName: docman864
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 23, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I have been playing table tennis who has been playing in USATT competitions for many years. 
 I actually played this game on the 360 first but I didn't really get the chance to spend more time 
 on it before I could judge how well it simulates the sport, so I will just review the wii version. 
 As you can see, table tennis is a very fast sport at higher levels and it seems like Rock star 
 did an ok job at keeping the game consistent with the speed, but it still plays slow. I am surprised 
 to say that I still considered this game to be the most and the only realistic table tennis I have 
 played so far. The game executes all the strokes (push, loop, lob, etc.) perfectly, which provides 
 a lot of variation and fun in the game. I am glad that Rock star included three separate options 
 for the game just to accommodate the player's level. If you want to play like a pro, you will have 
 to play with the nun chuck. Fans of Olympic Gold Medalist 2008, Ma Lin, will be pleased with Liu 
 Ping because you can make him play the entire game with him just using the forehand (you gotta 
 love those forehand loops and smashes combinations) . At first I thought the game was going to play 
 slow, but you can actually increase the pace of the game or rally after getting the hang of the 
 controls. I wish they had more characters and also improve the design of the characters a bit because 
 they do look boring to me. I am going to end this and give this game a score of 7/10. Thank you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fencingbean
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 2:11 am PT
Review:  Rockstars presents table tennis for wii is generally an okay game. It does nothing to really distinguish 
 itself from any other middiling sports games.
  
  The graphics are particuarlly good and realistic, but the table tennis players look very realistic 
 and so do the location. The gameplay is very simple, but is ruined by the poor motion sensing, 
 the charachter swings a bit after you swing the remote.
  
  This game is not great and you should generally stay away from it. It is not worth the full price 
 of a normal wii game unfortunately. If you want to buy a table tennis game for wii, there are other 
 options which are more fun and function better. Overall, it is alright, the graphics are good, 
 but the gameplay is dissapointing. A very mediocre game. Also it is slightly too easy, check your 
 bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaggisGhillie
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 19, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  I rented this one for a week, and that was plenty for me. Don't get me wrong, I really like playing 
 table tennis in real-life, but I don't love the game enough to play it for hours on end, week after 
 week on the Wii. The game controls were fine and I found myself on my feet swinging the Wii remote 
 back and forth, much more immersive than a traditional controller would be. It was a bunch of fun. 
 But as I said above, you REALLY need to love table tennis to own this game. The only thing in this 
 game is playing ping pong. Sure, you can unlock a new color of shirt (no, I'm not kidding) , you 
 can play at new venues, but that's about it. I'm not sure what else I was expecting out of table 
 tennis game, because Rockstar does a fine job in allow you to play the game, but I just came away 
 thinking how much money the game costs versus how much I would actually play it. Rent it first. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefanforlife
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 26, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  Rockstar Games Presents Table Tennis was a hit title for the XBOX 360 and what a great idea to 
 use the Wii control system and brings this game on Wii. 
  The graphics to the game are pretty good the Table Tennis players are very detailed which is important 
 along with the courts they look good for the Wii.
  
  Well if you are left handed like myself you will have problems why Rockstar Games only made it 
 for right handers is beyond a joke. There is not just right handed people who want to play you 
 know instead Rockstar Games are been biased.
  
  The worst part that i find annoying in this game is you swing to take your shot and about 8 - 10 
 seconds later it takes the shot but Wii Sports Tennis done it straight away i hate having to wait 
 takes the good feeling of the game away. 
  
  The music to the game is decent it's really dance music but it's reasonable to be on here. The 
 game is a little easy just a shame on the controls and it only been right handed. 
  
  This could of been a good game but seems as it was rushed what a shame and a waste after paying 
 29.99 for this well during October 2007 the price should of been lowed still. Also I have to add 
 this has the same stuff on as the XBOX 360 has no new modes which could of been added. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adorinar
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Left with a Credit Card debt and faced with the odd task of choosing between the Best -Selling 
 Game on the Wii, ie Super Mario Galaxy and Rockstar's Table Tannis... knowing full well of it's 
 mis-firings, I still opted for the one that rated a mere 6.5 on Gamespot.
  
  Why? Suffice it to say, I'm a die-hard fan of the sport and having no access to a real Ping-Pong 
 table set-up with some physical body to play with, I opted for the Wii's interactive game. This 
 is a no-brainer in terms of platform compatibility, so I thought. I was right... after several attempts.
 
  
  First, I had to try out an Easy Tournament with the default player Liu Ping. I was able to win 
 two matches without bloodying myself up. When that Swedish guy Jesper came into view, I had to 
 learn the hard way. I had to lose about ten games first before I finally won the Easy Tournament. 
 It's just like playing real Ping-Pong, I thought. The movements are tough and the contestants are 
 tougher. 
  
  When the Review talks about the wiimote not properly responding, I just think that maybe the reviewer 
 wasn't playing it right... or maybe he does not really know how to play Ping-Pong at all... like 
 most American whites. 
  
  So my physical quest into this game moves on. As long as I am not able to get my fix of Ping-Pong 
 in the real world, I will continue killing myself playing Table-Tennis for the Wii... and I'm not 
 kidding. I just love it to death. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nunyerbiz
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 20, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun game, while the novelty lasts. 
  
  The control scheme isn't quite like Wii Sports Tennis, which may lead to some dissapointment, but 
 I didn't have a problem with it. Rockstar went with a slightly more strategic and definately more 
 realistic approach with this one. While you can swing at any point while the ball is approaching 
 you, making timing less of a critical issue, the game relies more on the spin and aiming aspects. 
 This "lag" between controller swing and in-game swing seems jarring at first, but you realize it 
 serves it's purpose well. The animations are spot on and you can quickly get lost in how cool the 
 whole thing looks. Sure, it's not a direct feedback game like Wii Tennis, but come on, that game 
 doesn't have to animate realistic player models. The control scheme works well for what it sets 
 out to do. Overall it offers a much deeper, if somewhat less immediate, gameplay mechanic than 
 Wii Tennis.
  
  On the high difficultly setting, games against the CPU can get pretty intense and it's a rewarding 
 game to work your way through. Unfortunately, it doesn't take long for you to get there. This one 
 just can't be recommended for purchase based on this limited staying power. While enjoyable, it's 
 not something that most people would revisit after a weekend or so spent unlocking everything... 
 and Wii Sports Tennis is always going to be preferred when 2-3 other people are hanging out. 
 
  
  I'm giving it a 7.0... which is slanted towards rental. If looking at this purely from a purchase 
 perspective, it's probably a 5.5 or 6.0 due to lack of staying power. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcus27870
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  First, when Rockstar announced the release of the XBOX360 port to the Wii,
  I was over the moon. BUT, this game actually wasnt as great as the XBOX, the graphics were worse 
 than the XBOX, no new features - no improvements, irritating music that just repeats over and over 
 again! AND, the controlls really STINK.
  Its one of those "pick up and play" games, the controls are quite simple. This game doesnt really 
 have many modes, it gets repetitive and boring in about 1 day. The thing is... with this game, 
 you swing your remote, and it reacts about 5-8 seconds later; Not so impressive is it? Eh?
  
  
  THE GOOD
  -The Graphics are alright
  -Real places and sponsors
  -Unlocking new stuff 
 (i. e. clothes and places)
  
  
  All in all, I think its a failed port, mainly because of the controls. Its really an ALRIGHT game 
 but not as great as the XBOX 360 Version.
  5.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: severndigital
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  I got this game as a gift. Initially I though it was pretty cool. To play table tennis on the Wii 
 is a real treat.
  
  When I first started playing this game, I thought to myself 'this is really cool, the delay is 
 a bit frustrating, but to be able to play ping pong is really neat.'
  
  Then we rented mario & sonic olympic games. ... WHOA! I was shocked. while it's only one of many 
 games to play in the olympics, the ping pong blew me away.
  
  I thought I was playing a cool table tennis game with rockstar, but after seeing the Wii Play and 
 Mario & Sonic versions of tennis I lowered my rating of this game.
  
  1 to 1 action ratio is something every game should strive for on this system. I believe that most 
 Wii owners would agree that they didn't buy the system for the graphics. They bought the system 
 because of it's unique game play. With all the opportunity to enhance game play the Wii brings 
 to the table and the Wii now surpassing other systems in sales, developers are going to have to 
 start offering games built specifically for the Wii. 
  
  I would recommend renting this one before buying it. The game play is very short in my opinion. 
 only 4 tournaments. Is it possible Rockstar spent the budget for this game on the graphics instead 
 of the game play??
  
  I would have like to have seen 'Tiger Woods' type game play, with a calendar of events, a deeper 
 multi player mode, and most importantly a 'Game Face' option. I would rather play lesser quality 
 graphics, and still be able to design a player myself. Then be stuck with choosing between a dozen 
 pre-made characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umd1998
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 20, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  The makers of "Rockstar Games Presents Table Tennis" take their ping pong very seriously.
  Great care was put into making the ball move according to accurate physics. The characters grunt 
 realistically as they drip with sweat during intense volleys.
  Which begs the question: Why was so little attention paid to the clunky motion controls, which 
 are the main draw of playing the game on the Wii?
  The Xbox 360 version of "Table Tennis" debuted in May 2006. But the result of a year-and-a-half 
 of adapting the game to the Wii feels like a half-hearted effort.
  There's no denying the game's audio is excellent. Sound effects and crowd noise during matches 
 are clear and realistic.
  But an otherwise lack of realism is the game's biggest fault.
  Certainly, the bar for play control has been set high by "Wii Sports Tennis." But wielding your 
 virtual paddle in "Table Tennis" is not even Wiimotely close to 1:1 control. Instead, your on-screen 
 persona swings a few seconds after you do. This obliterates any sense of immersion, which is the 
 Wii's greatest attribute.
  The color-coded spin controls are a nice idea, but the delay is too much of a dealbreaker.
  Even 
 worse, the gameplay options are threadbare. It has no career mode, no online multiplayer -- this 
 disaster doesn't even have doubles play. All you can do is play a brief tournament or go one-on-one 
 with someone in the room with you.
  Add long load times and buggy, hard-to-navigate menus, and you've got a lame ping pong game that 
 should get an overhead smash into the trash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bfaust
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 23, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  I'm starting to believe that Sony paid Rockstar developers to build a pathetic game for the Wii 
 just to try to embarass the Nintendo. But I think Rockstar should be highly embarassed of themselves 
 for their performance with this game. Rockstar Table Tennis for the Wii is absolutely one of the 
 worst Wii games I've played so far.
  
  From the start, the music and aura that the initial setting of the game aspires to gives off a 
 good vibe. But I should have taken the lag time between simple loading of graphics and screens 
 as a bad sign. The reaction time is horrible. The delay between my arm swinging and my table tennis 
 player were light years apart. I thought it was a joke, but realized it wasn't going to get any 
 better.
  
  The interfaces, graphics, and music are decent as should any Rockstar production. But the actual 
 gameplay is vomit-inducing.
  
  Don't bother renting, let along buying, this game. I did - and I regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: violetdav
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  I can't believe no one likes this. I actually think it's a great for the Wii ( there are some game 
 that are just suited to the reality of swinging your arms wildly in front of your TV) . Granted 
 it's not Wii-Native, but its fun and isn't what really counts? True I think it would be amazing 
 with Online Play, but hey it's Rockstar and that fact alone makes it fun. The idea that nothing 
 is good on the Wi must stop. Developers ignored the Wii and now we are reaping the piss-poor results. 
 Nonetheless, Table Tennis has a real learning curve and real Wii-itis potential (I'm still in pain) . 
 
  
  Now I never did play it on the 360, however on the Wii it's dynamic and fun (and it's get me off 
 the couch - the way I only did previously just for Tiger Woods) . Instead of bashing a relatively 
 good game why not put the focus on getting game developers to make some Wii-Native games that really 
 get our temperature up. So that I'm not stuck listening to people complain how "it's a poor representation 
 of the "X" version) 
  
  Can't a game just be judged on the fact that it is "fun"? Come on, you cannot tell me you didn't 
 enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spicykit
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  I read some review saying that if you like Wii Sports Tennis, you must get this... Well I listened 
 to them and got it and now I am totally disappointed!!!
  THis is nothing comparble to Wii SPort Tennis:
  - Confusing multiple player mode. Unlike Tennis 
 where it is split screen for player, this table tennis game required the player to keep switching 
 side. Very confusing game play
  - No option to set for left handed. We do play differently than right handed.
  - keep accidently 
 hitting the + button and pauses the game. Bad control mapping of the wiimote .
  - graphics is very shallow
  - No career/experience gaining for player. Basically once you unlock 
 all the items you are done with the single player mode.
  - No excitment during the game.
  
  All in all, don't buy it, actually not even worth renting it. Very surprised that this game 
 is developed by Rockstar.
  
  Give 2.5 because the music is quite good. Otherwise it will be a 1.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  The thing that made Wii Sports tennis so engaging was how the motion controls made you feel like 
 part of a real match, breaking down the barrier between player and on-screen action put up by a 
 traditional controller. But while Rockstars Xbox 360 hit Table Tennis seems like an obvious choice 
 for the Wii treatment, much of the games tactile charm has been lost in the transition.
  
  While your movements in Wii Sports tennis are all mirrored on the TV screen in real time, in Rockstars 
 presentation you can swing at an oncoming ball anytime you like and your avatar will make the move 
 at the precisely right moment, even if thats a second later. And while this set-up makes for an 
 easier game overall - and youll soon be unfeasibly proud of your ping-pong prowess - the experience 
 feels oddly detached and nowhere near as immersive as other gesture-based sports games.
  
  The transition from the 360 to the less-powerful Wii also means that much of the original games 
 graphical flair has been lost, leaving behind a dull-looking simulation that strips away much of 
 the personality that made Rockstars game such a pleasant departure from the publishers habitual 
 focus on violent crime and killing hookers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frankensteinman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  Rockstar presents Table Tennis could have been one of the greatest games on the Wii. Instead it 
 is just a fun diversion that leaves you feeling like you got cheated out of some part of the game. 
 The action is actually quite fun once you get into it and the games are just the right length for 
 pickup and play sessions. The game-play with the Wii remote is a problem though. Instead of swinging 
 at the correct time to hit the ball, you can swing whenever and your character will make contact 
 at the correct time. The motion controls on placing the ball work well, but they are overshadowed 
 by the disconnect between what you do and what happens. All three control schemes work well, but 
 only the standard and sharp shooter modes are actually useful, moving you character in control 
 freak can be a bit of a chore and for the most part it is taken care of by the game very well. 
 The game is very short, with only four tournaments and 11 characters so most of it could be unlocked 
 in a weekend. Each character only has four to five unlockable outfits, so the single player feels 
 kind of weak. The multiplayer lends replay to a game that is sourly lacking in longevity, but even 
 that gets old fast. The game is great for a weekend and then becomes sort of repetitive if you 
 have already unlocked all that is able to be unlocked. Admittedly you could beat every tournament 
 with every character, but it just seems like a waste of time, as there isnt that much to unlock 
 anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mud
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 5:11 am PT
Review:  Gamespot's review describes a serious problem with this Wii port, which I could have told you was 
 going to happen before the game was even released:
  
  The biggest problem, though, is the incredible disconnect between your movement and the action 
 onscreen. Rather than operating on a one-to-one control scale, where what you see correlates directly 
 to your movement in real time, you can swing at any time that the ball is headed toward you, and 
 your player will automatically swing when the time is right. The game actually encourages you to 
 swing as early as possible because the strength of your spin is determined by how long you hold 
 the D pad. It's entirely functional, but it doesn't make you feel like you're really playing table 
 tennis any more than the 360 version did, which would seem like the whole point of bringing Table 
 Tennis to the Wii in the first place.
  
  This 'pre selection' of moves is fundamental to Rockstar's design. It's actually a brilliant solution 
 to a serious technical problem: how do you realistically animate a character that a player can 
 control in real time? This may not sound like an issue at all -- we've had realtime control of 
 game characters for years, right? -- but as game rendering approaches photorealism (leaving animation 
 as the weak link) this becomes a huge problem.
  
  Most sports games or shooters include movements that just cannot be realistically animated. In 
 real life, if you were running forward and suddenly made a 90 degree turn to the right, you would 
 have to plant a foot in your previous direction of motion and push off it. A game can't animate 
 that. By the time it knows you want to turn right, it's too late. It would need some advance warning 
 of your course change in order to properly animate it.
  
  Enter Rockstar's clever control scheme. By letting the game know as early as possible exactly how 
 you intend to return the ball, it can properly animation your character shifting weight, stretching 
 across the table, reaching out an arm and angling the paddle perfectly so the ball connects at 
 just the right angle at just the right time. It looks great, and wouldn't be possible with a more 
 'real time' control scheme.
  
  Table Tennis was developed to test next-gen rendering and animation techniques, and the controls 
 scheme was part of that. To do the Wii controller justice they would basically need a different 
 game, a total redesign. They chose not to do that, which makes one wonder why they bothered porting 
 it at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaktiboi
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 18, 2007 11:55 pm PT
Review:  This game requires a lot more vigorous swinging than Wii Sports Tennis, so it's good arm exercise 
 if nothing else. The problem is that one tactical approach beats most of the players (on medium 
 difficulty, at least) . Basically you just take control with topspin and keep it up until your opponent 
 starts popping some high shots your way, and then it's smash smash smash smash until they finally 
 miss a return.
  
  The other problem is that unlike the very good Wii Sports tennis, there's no reality in your swing 
 dynamics. You *must* swing before the ball even gets on your side, so it just doesn't feel right 
 or realistic. Also, if you play real table tennis, the 6 swing directions are clunky and again 
 nothing like real forehand/backhand swing dynamics. The 6 swing directions just aim the ball instead 
 of actually imparting the spin that would be applied if you swing like that. You must also exaggerate 
 your swing quite a bit... there's no nuance for soft shots or drop shots. There's no feel of slamming 
 the topspin, or chopping or pushing or any of that.
  
  It's like the difference between Wii Sports Golf and Super Swing Golf. Super Swing Golf has a very 
 realistic feel to drives, chipping, and even putting, and reads your slice/hook based on whether 
 your open or close your face at the point of impact, just like in real golf. But Wii Sports Golf 
 is a mess and doesn't feel realistic in any way. By comparison, Wii Sports Tennis actually feels 
 mostly realistic and responds like swinging a real tennis racket. But Rockstar Table Tennis feels 
 completely disconnected like Wii Sports Golf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uaretofu
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 17, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  With in the first few minutes of playing this game it seems like it bought a bomb. You can't play 
 this game like you would wii tennis, the control scheme is completely different. I went right into 
 exhibition mode without knowing this first; going to training mode is very important.
  
  After going through training mode, which consisted of learning the various moves needed to successfully 
 play the game, the game began to look like a winner. The gameplay can become quite fast as you 
 and your opponent volley the ball back and forth. I found that it is easier to hit the ball by 
 using a pre-swing (swinging the wii remote before the ball gets to you) . This really helps especially 
 when the volleys start getting faster and faster. I would like to write more but I am too busy 
 trying to beat Lui Ping on Hard level.
  
  Cheers! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
