-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sam & Max: Season One
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/adventure/samandmaxseason1/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Snappy, hilarious writing throughout.
 Excellent voice acting.
 Unforgettable cast of characters.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A few technical issues and frame rate problems.
 No replay value.
 Some puzzles are a bit too easy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 10, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.5, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 68 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: The Adventure Company
Developer: Telltale Games
Genre: Adventure
Date: Oct 15, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A few technical issues get in the way, but the hilarity of this adventure series still shines through. 
 

  Sam and Max first made the transition from comic book characters to adventure game stars in the 
 hilarious 1993 LucasArts adventure, Sam &amp; Max Hit the Road. While they continued to dispense 
 their unique brand of vigilante justice in comics and even had their own TV show for a little while, 
 it wasn't until the first in an episodic series of adventures hit GameTap in 2006 that the duo 
 returned to computer screens. Now, all six episodes of the first season of games starring Sam, 
 the canine detective, along with his partner, the hyperkinetic rabbity-thing Max, have been compiled 
 and released on the Wii. While a few technical issues make this version less recommendable than 
 its PC counterpart, the laugh-out-loud funny writing makes this an adventure worth playing.  

 
           Sweet mother of double jeopardy backstroking in butterscotch!      

  The real attraction here is not so much the gameplay as it is Sam and Max themselves. The memorable 
 assortment of former child stars, mafiosi, moles, rats, masters of disguise, sentient arcade games, 
 and US presidents that they meet on their adventure are also a big attraction. Throughout the course 
 of the season, Sam and Max will rig a game show, become sitcom stars, join the Toy Mafia, win an 
 election, destroy the Internet, and travel to the moon in their DeSoto. Each of the six episodes 
 has a self-contained story arc, which makes playing the game in shorter bursts satisfying. But 
 they also play into an overall plot that runs throughout the season, so you'll want to play through 
 the episodes in order. You're free to jump into any episode at any time, though, so if you've already 
 played certain episodes on the PC or just get plumb stuck in your current episode, you can move 
 on to something else.  

  The writing is so funny and so elaborately wrought that the gameplay feels a bit simple by comparison. 
 In typical point-and-click adventure game fashion, Sam &amp; Max is played by clicking on objects 
 that you want to interact with or pick up, and by conversing with the characters you meet by selecting 
 options from a dialogue tree. While there are a few stumpers here and there, the majority of solutions 
 to the game's puzzles are somewhat obvious. That is, at least, once you accustom yourself to the 
 zany logic of Sam and Max's world, keeping in mind that ketchup -- that most versatile of condiments -- is 
 readily available at Bosco's Inconvenience. And even when you're fumbling to find the answer to 
 a puzzle, your failed attempts at progress will still reward you with some funny wisecracks from 
 the duo.  

  The office of Sam and Max and other locales are used repeatedly throughout the season, but they 
 never feel stale. These environs include Bosco's Inconvenience and the office of one Sybil Pandemik, 
 professional career changer. In fact, one of the most enjoyable aspects of starting a new episode 
 is finding out what new line of work Sybil is trying out this time, as well as learning what outrageous 
 weapon Bosco has designed for our boys and what outrageous price he's charging for it. At the same 
 time, each episode introduces enough new locations to stay fresh and interesting. While the first 
 few episodes certainly aren't bad, it's in the second half that the season hits its stride, with 
 episodes four and five being the real standouts. They feature especially memorable characters, 
 hilarious concepts, and a couple of terrific musical numbers.  

  It's unfortunate that a few technical issues interfere with all the hilarity. There's often a brief 
 but noticeable pause before Sam interacts with something, and occasionally, the last syllable of 
 a line of dialogue will get cut off, which breaks the comic timing of the delivery. There are a 
 few chase sequences during which the frame rate takes a real beating, making the sequences more 
 difficult than you might expect. And at one point in our time with the game, the sound got caught 
 in an excruciating loop that took about two minutes to correct, though when we went back to play 
 this sequence again, it performed smoothly. Also, while the Wii Remote is an adequate substitute 
 for a mouse most of the time, it can be a tad tricky to pinpoint the tiny objects with which you 
 occasionally need to interact.  

           Sam and Max experience a new, improved reality in the outstanding fifth episode, Reality 
 2.0.      

  These technical issues aside, the simple but charming 3D graphics of the PC games translate well 
 to the Wii, and the terrific, expressive animations of the characters are often as funny as the 
 dialogue. Solid voice acting is hugely important in a game so focused on comedy, and Season One 
 has it. The voices for Sam and Max fit the characters perfectly while the supporting cast is just 
 as strong. The jazzy soundtrack is also great, providing an outstanding accompaniment for the story, 
 as well as the grimy urban landscape where Sam and Max make their home.  

  Aside from a few concept sketches that are available to you from the outset, there are no special 
 features here, so if you've already played these games on the PC, there's no incentive to pick 
 up this version. Also, there isn't any replay value to the game, aside from the possibility of 
 stumbling on a few funny lines of dialogue you may have missed the first time through. Each episode 
 will take first-time players roughly two hours to complete, and with a $30 price tag, there's a 
 good amount of content here for those seeking a surreal journey through the seedy underbelly of 
 has-been child stardom, American politics, the information superhighway, and the terrifying realm 
 of a self-help guru.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: BlackhawkBix
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2009 10:19 am PT
Review:  Ahhhhh, the early 90's computer game scene.... where Commander Keen was king, Doom was starting 
 to sweep the nation, and Wolfenstein 3-D was considered great graphics. During these years, LucasArts 
 had a very popular line of point and click adventures. Day of the Tentacle, The Monkey Island Games, 
 and later on Full Throttle and Grim Fandango, were some of the most interesting gaming experiences 
 around. Humor, witty storylines, and ridiculous yet entertaining puzzles, were rampant thorughout 
 these types of games.
  
  In 1993, Sam and Max Hit The Road debuted. It was a point and click based on a comic book series 
 by Steve Purcell. A dog and a rabbit freelance police were the main characters. Crude dialogue, 
 toilet humor, profanity, movie references, and subtle political and sexual quips were laced throughout 
 the game. It was basically a Simpsons style cartoon video game. While the puzzles could be maddening 
 at times, there were mini-games strewn throughout, and plenty of hilarious dialogue to keep you 
 playing. 
  
  Telltale Games and The Adventure company ended the long hiatus last year with Sam and Max Season 
 One. Still just as politically incorrect as ever, it was a huge relief for me to see them back 
 on the video game scene. As a mourner for the end of the point and click era, it breathed new hope 
 that maybe a comeback could be looming.
  
  While Season One is definitely not Hit the Road, it definitely brings a lot of innovation to the 
 series. It's set up in episodes that can be played in any order (even though it is highly advised 
 to play them in a row) . This is much different from the predecessor, where as if you got stuck, 
 you were stuck in that spot till you solved the puzzle.
  
  Season One has it's shortcomings. There is no replay value, and it's a 12-15 hour game, but at 
 $19.99, it's worth the endeavor. Where else are you going to see swearing dogs and rabbits, a plan 
 to off Abe Lincoln, a severed president's head that is comical, a car drive to the moon, and mobsters 
 wearing teddy bear costumes?
  
  There are some graphical issues in this game, and to an experienced puzzle gamer, Season One will 
 be quite easy. The voice acting, the dialogue, and the storyline are quite impressive, however, 
 and definitely make the bargain price worth a shot.
  
  The biggest appeal with Season One, I would say, is the fact that it is completely out of the norm. 
 It breaks away from your conventional game. You can't die, you don't "kill" anything, and the only 
 violence is comical. It's a refreshing look at a whole new style of games that was once dead and 
 expired. And at $19.99 in this economy, WHY NOT?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomiPetteri
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 10, 2009 7:31 am PT
Review:  Sam Max: Season One is an okay port to the Wii, but the poor quality of the game takes the edge 
 of the gameplay.
  
  Funny and witty dialogues, plot and characters are the base of Sam & Max. It's quite simple point-and-click 
 game but you have to learn to think like the duo to proceed in the game, since the game itself 
 is pretty hard and sometimes the solutions seem pretty illogical.
  
  The game has what it takes to be pretty damn good but technical issues kills the enjoyment way 
 too much. The camera is sometimes way off, the game is glitchy, it freezes, slows down.. Also the 
 graphics are to be honest pretty lame even for Wii.
  
  The game contains six episodes, thus and okay length. You will be stuck from time to time thinking 
 what to do next so finishing the game should take 10+ hours for a first timer.
  
  Long story short the game is recommendable for hardcore point-and-click and Sam & Max fans but 
 anyone who feels that the technical problems are too much to overcome will be annoyed with this 
 release.
  
  And that's a shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skotzmun
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 2:23 am PT
Review:  I've never seen the enjoyment of sitting in front of the PC all evening after doing the same all 
 day, so I am loving the slow emergence of point-and-click adventure titles on the Wii. Now we can 
 spend a pleasant evening curled up on the sofa doing the pointy-clicky business with the Wii-mote 
 in a sociable and comfortable way. (Hugh) Bliss.
  
  The puzzles aren't that fiendish, but as we're relative P&C newbies that's no disappointment. The 
 sheer joy of this game is the dialogue - some of it really is laugh out loud funny, with some nice 
 lines in satire and general mickey-taking.
  
  Others have mentioned the feel of watching a Sit-Com, and it has to be said that some of the dialogue 
 interactions really do have that feel to it, and it all hangs together quite nicely.
  
  Voice acting is spot-on, and some of the songs crack me up (little buddy) . The special agents singing 
 about War being good was a belter - music and animation both containing belly-laughs.
  
  And as for Reality 1.0... I let a bit of wee out, I was laughing so much. :-)
  
  The biggest 
 bug-bear is the occasional tendency to clip off the final few frames of audio from a soundbyte 
 which can be a bit irritating, but you can always trigger the thing again if you think you've missed 
 something important (usually the punchline to a joke) .
  
  We are midway through the last of the six episodes as I write, and I know I am really going to 
 miss my time in Sam & Max's weird, wonderful and sublimely entertaining world. I do hope there's 
 a sequel on the cards.
  
  (EDIT: And I've just learned there will be - YAY!!)
  
  More fun pointy-clicky-Wii things, please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_fury
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 6, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  I've played the entirety of Sam & Max Season 1 on my PC. Since my computer is so old, though, it 
 has some difficulties with running any games, so I was very excited to hear that the season would 
 be ported to the Wii.
  
  Boy, was that excitement wasted!
  
  The content is exactly the same as the original; six episodes of pointin'-and-clickin' fun. (The 
 Wii added some bonus content like sketches, but who cares about things like that?) The PC version 
 had a flew flaws (repeated scenery, slow pace) , but the writing and voice acting was so strong 
 that it was easy to look past them.
  
  On the Wii, though, the flaws are amplified as this version brings a whole new set of problems. 
 The unreliable Wii remote makes utilizing inventory, options, and dialogue choices cumbersome -- 
 actions that could be accomplished quickly in the PC take more than 20 seconds to accomplish on 
 the Wii. Even though the graphics have been downgraded, the Wii can't quite catch up; during the 
 chase in Episode 1, the graphics lagged so hard I was having flashbacks to Shadow of the Colossus, 
 and I only passed that section due to luck more than anything else.
  
  Sam & Max is a wonderful and hilarious game. But get it on the PC and avoid the Wii port. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
