-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Samba de Amigo
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/puzzle/sambadeamigo/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Wii Remote and Nunchuk make decent maracas.
 Fun to shake it with a friend.
 Good songlist.
 Affordable, as rhythm games go.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Imprecise controls make difficult songs very frustrating.
 Not a lot of single-player appeal.
 Oversaturated backgrounds are a bit much.
 Lame minigames add nothing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 26, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.8, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 172 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Gearbox Software
Genre: Rhythm / Music
Date: Sep 23, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Some fun songs and unique gameplay help get Samba going, but imprecise controls and unreasonable 
 difficulty bungle the beat. 

  When Samba de Amigo first appeared on the Dreamcast eight years ago, it marked a new standard for 
 exciting rhythm-based gameplay and expensive, game-specific peripherals ($79.99 for a pair of maracas!) . 
 How fitting, then, that in this golden age of musical peripherals, Samba de Amigo has found a new 
 home on a system with built-in maraca functionality. Unfortunately, time and the burgeoning rhythm-game 
 genre have dulled Samba's once-novel gameplay, and the Wii controls have precision issues that 
 can border on maddening. Still, if you stick to moderate difficulty levels or play with a footloose 
 friend, these maracas still have plenty of shake in them.  

           You are the star of the maraca-shaking monkey show.      

  Samba de Amigo is all about 
 shaking your "maracas" along to the beat. There are six target areas (high, middle, and low for 
 both your left and right hands) arranged in a hexagon. The notes you need to match appear in the 
 center of the shape and radiate out to the target areas. When a note is in the target area, you 
 shake the controller to play it. In addition to this familiar challenge, you'll have to do rolls 
 by shaking the controllers furiously, match poses and hold them for a few seconds, or dance by 
 shaking your controllers in a certain motion. The latter task is where you get your first taste 
 of how imprecise the controls can be; literally any shaking will register as a successful dance 
 move.  

  This isn't necessarily a bad thing, if you've got the right attitude. It's quite fun to get into 
 the rhythm of a given song, and having a built-in space to improvise your own dance moves is a 
 great way to help encourage immersion. Samba de Amigo shines when you really get into it and dance 
 along with the beat in addition to just hitting your notes. This is easy to do when playing a friend 
 (cooperatively or competitively) , or when playing the solo career on easy or normal. Once you get 
 into the hard and superhard difficulties, things begin to turn sour.  

  As the notes come faster and faster, you need to be more precise to accurately hit different notes 
 in quick succession. The Wii registers high, middle, and low levels when you point the controllers 
 up, straight ahead, and down, respectively. When varied notes come at you quickly, you have to 
 move your arms and snap your wrists quickly, but you'll find that many of your shakes are registering 
 on the wrong level or just not registering at all. To have any hope of passing these songs, you 
 have to move away from your carefree, rhythmic approach toward a more exacting, robotic style. 
 Even as you strive to make your motions more precise, you realize that the imprecision inherent 
 in the Wii controls is constantly working against you. On top of that, just a handful of wrong 
 notes throughout a song can be enough to keep you from getting a passing grade. The only motivation 
 to play the tougher levels of Career mode (aside from masochism) is to unlock new songs to play 
 in other modes, but you'll be hard pressed to forge onward when you are hitting more than 90 percent 
 of the notes and still not passing the song.  

  Fortunately, most of the songs can be unlocked without descending too deep into the madness of 
 the hard difficulty levels. There are a number of fun songs to play along to, including a number 
 of great songs made famous by the Gipsy Kings, as well as a good assortment of familiar mambo, 
 marimba, and tango music. There are some pop tunes that vary in quality, from the smooth version 
 of Rihanna's "Pon de Replay" to the terrible butchering of two Ricky Martin songs. You can also 
 pay to download new songs via the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, a novel feature for a Wii rhythm game. 

           You're in hyperspace with masked wrestlers, undead guitarists, and a stitched-up bear: 
 Pose!!      

  There's plenty of activity on the screen while you're shaking your maracas, but you might not want 
 to look directly at it. Insane characters jump around frantically (not appearing to match the beat 
 of the song) in bizarre, brightly colored locations where the scenery dances as much as the inhabitants. 
 If you are doing particularly well, the scenery will transform into a pulsing rainbow-saturated 
 alternate dimension, where your bonzo entourage will continue to jump around frantically. It can 
 definitely be distracting at times, but you'll usually be too focused on your notes to care.  

 
  There are also a bevy of alternate modes and minigames. You can play each song in the normal fashion 
 or try out a dance-focused version if you want to cut loose. You can battle a friend and try to 
 out-maraca each other or play a cooperative mode that will tell you how compatible you are and 
 how long your relationship will last. These modes provide welcome variations on the standard gameplay, 
 but the same cannot be said for the minigames. Most of them can be aced by just furiously shaking 
 the controllers. Volleyball is the exception to this rule, as you control disembodied hands in 
 a match of beach volleyball that is initially amusing but ultimately lame.  

  Samba de Amigo offers fun on a limited scope, and how much you'll enjoy it really depends on your 
 attitude. If you know some folks who enjoy dancing and general silliness, you'll enjoy getting 
 together to shake your groove things from time to time. The single-player is too limited to provide 
 lasting entertainment value, and the controls will frustrate anyone playing on the harder difficulties. 
 The lack of expensive peripherals and reduced price point make it an appealing rhythm game for 
 budget-conscious buyers, but even they had better be willing to check their expectations -- and inhibitions -- at 
 the door.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gameblues
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 8:27 am PT
Review:  Is everybody ready to shake those maracas? Yep, this is the Game Blues review for 'Samba De Amigo' 
 for the Wii. This is an update of the popular Dreamcast game, and its Japan sequel (not including 
 arcade versions of this game.) . I had one major problem with the game that almost made this game 
 unplayable, but I'll get to that later. Let's check out the categories!
  
  CHARACTERS: This game features a lot of colorful characters. The main character is 'Amigo', an overly-happy 
 monkey that has a major dancing disorder and is fascinated with the 70's. He stars with his sister, 
 appropriately called 'Amiga', a weird butterfly dancer named Linda, and some random stick figure 
 named Mr. Pose. A very odd mixture of characters, wouldn't you think? Somehow, the cast worked 
 for me anyways. The game features appearances from Ulala (Space Channel 5) and Sonic (from Sonic 
 The Hedgehog) . The guests also include their own stages, which adds to the 'coolness' factor of 
 the 
  game. I really didn't have a problem with the cast, and the guest stars from other Sega games were 
 cool to see. All in fairness, this category gets a very moderate score.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The major problem everyone has with this game, and I'm not kidding. The Wii motions for 
 this game are horrible. On easy mode the motions seem to be dead-on for the most part, but for 
 the upper modes like 'hard' and 'super hard', the controls struggle. Countless hours I have spent 
 replaying the song I keep on missing over and over and over again until I get at least a 'C' (the 
 lowest grade you can get to pass the song) . You swear you moved the Wii Remote when the dots move 
 into the circles, but it doesn't seem to recognize it. It also appears to happen in certain songs, 
 too. One of the major songs I had a problem with the motion controls on was 'Low Rider' on hard 
 mode. The sensor bar just didn't want to recognize most of my movements, which is necessary when 
 you are playing a game that makes you complete every single song if you want to complete story 
 mode. Just Horrible. Now time to explain what you actually do, in case some of you haven't played 
 the game before. You have 6 little circles representing the areas where you are supposed to aim 
 the Wii Remote to hit the notes (little circle objects) as they go in the areas. To hit the upper 
 circles, you move your arm (s) up. To hit the middle circles, you position your arms in between 
 where you hit the upper and lower circles. To hit the lower circles, you move your arms down. Confusing 
 I know, but you really can't explain it without it being confusing. Mr. Pose will sometimes come 
 on the screen, telling you to perform a dance or position your arms in some weird way. The game 
 also includes mini games like Volleyball, which really has no place in a musical rhythm game. Overall, 
 the gameplay is just... bad.
  
  STORYLINE: Like Animal Crossing, this game has no storyline what so ever. It just has a dancing 
 monkey with very weird friends dancing around. That's it, and Sega should keep it like that.
  
  REPLAY VALUE: Although the game has some bad motion controls, I still think you can play this 
 game over and over again, which is probably what you are going to do because of the bad motion 
 controls (unless you drink too much Monster Energy and throw your Wii Remote half way across the 
 room. Hey, it happens.) . The game features a pretty good soundtrack, which will have you shaking 
 your Wii Remote for hours. I just don't recommend playing the mini games. At all. 
  
  Overall thoughts: If you are one of those gamers that gets frustrated too easily, then I wouldn't 
 recommend this game at all. I wouldn't really buy this game, I would have to recommend renting 
 this game and only playing it for an hour at a time, or else your arms will regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gggames_se
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 16, 2009 1:28 pm PT
Review:  After becoming a famous samba performer, Amigo the monkey could finally support his poor family. 
 One day, Amiga, Amigo's sister comes to visit Amigo and the rest of the family in the mountains 
 where they live. The family arranges a great reunion party and soon after that, Amiga and Amiga 
 decides that they should do some samba together. Without delay they travel to Maracas City, and 
 the music there starts immediately! But Amigo is always ready to get into the groove!
  
  Samba de Amigo for the Wii is an enhanced version of the Samba de Amigo games originally released 
 for the Dreamcast. This is a rhythm game where you use the controllers as a pair of maracas and 
 in order to clear a stage you must shake the maracas to the music as instructed on the screen. 
 The story of the game is nowhere to be seen in the game as the game is only played on a song-by-song 
 basis. Even though there are many game modes to play, there's really nothing more to this game 
 than to shake away to the 44 included songs.
  
  The game is played by shaking the right maraca at the right position - either high, medium or low 
  at the right time. When playing you'll see six different rings, and along with the song there 
 are balls going towards these rings, representing high, medium and low shakes for each maraca. 
 When the ball reaches the ring, you must shake the maraca at the corresponding level. Your timing 
 must of course be precise to score the better scores. Apart from maraca shaking the songs also 
 include "hustles" where you must wave your maraca (or maracas) in various ways, as shown on the 
 screen. The hustles seem to encourage crazy waving back and forth rather than waving in the rhythm 
 of the song which results in mindless offbeat waving. Every now and then you must also strike poses 
 as shown by a figure on the screen. These three elements  shakes, hustles and poses are the bread 
 and butter of Samba de Amigo.
  
  In order to get access to all the songs and game modes in the game you have to unlock them by reaching 
 various accomplishments. The more stages you beat, the more content will be unlocked  but the 
 game will not tell you the specific goals that need to be met to unlock the various stuff. So you 
 either have to check a guide for the game or just keep playing and hope for the best. Either way 
 works fine.
  
  Most game modes can be played in four different difficulty levels, where the two hardest must be 
 unlocked by showing your worth in the "easy" and "normal" modes.
  The standard Career Mode is a series of challenges (or songs, rather) of varying difficulty that 
 the various characters from Maracas City will have you go through. In order to clear a song, you 
 must get a decent score in it. Your effort is ranked by your score, which in turn is based on how 
 many consequent shakes you can do without failing, and if it's good enough you clear the stage. 
 Otherwise you must try again. Career Mode also lets you know how many of the unlocks you have unlocked 
 and how many percent of the Career Mode you have completed.
  
  The other single player modes are Quick Play, Love Love, Battle, Classic, Survival and Minigames. 
 Love Love is obviously meant to be played in two player, but can also be played together with an 
 AI controlled partner. This is a game mode where you play together with your partner to check your 
 compatibility. The goal of this game mode is, just in the other game modes; shake the controllers 
 to the song but this time around the score is based on synchronizing your moves as much as possible 
 with your partner. The better you are synced, the better the score and rank. Depending on how well 
 you do, the game might dub you and your partner "a cute couple" or "a cool couple" for example, 
 and estimate how long you have been in your relationship. It's all a good laugh - nothing more, 
 nothing less.
  The Battle mode lets you face off a AI controlled opponent in a samba duel. For as long as you 
 can keep shaking those maracas to the song without missing a beat your "amigo-score" will rise. 
 When it reaches 100, a bomb goes off and takes away some of your opponents health bar. The goal 
 is, of course to drain all your opponents life. The Minigames are a really crazy bunch  there 
 is a whack-a-mole type game that you control just like the maracas in the regular game modes, and 
 a mode called "Monkey see, Monkey do" where you must mimic maraca shakes, among others. There are 
 eight minigames in total, and while they're all nice to have and worth a shot or two, there's no 
 risk that they will captivate you for any prolonged period of time.
  
  There are also three Training Modes where you will be instructed by Amiga how the game is played 
 and how you should hold your controllers when playing the game. There's also a calibration option 
 that you should go through before playing. The developers have also included two rather pointless 
 bonus videos that you can unlock for your viewing pleasure.
  
  Samba de Amigo can be played in two different ways  either with one Wii Remote and one Nunchuck, 
 or with two Wii Remotes. It seems that using two Wii Remotes helps in registering the position 
 of your maracas, but that's a very, very minor advantage.
  No matter what you use to play, there is one problem with how the game registers your shakes. If 
 the song requires you to do quick switches between the high, medium and low shakes you'll notice 
 that there is a small delay before the game registers your move  this is especially obvious if 
 you keep shaking the controller in between that switch. In the heat of a groove, for a casual gamer 
 this is very hard, if not impossible to recognize, but a normal gamer should be able to take it 
 into consideration. The game shows markers that indicate what position the game senses the controller 
 at. If you pay close attention to these markers and play by them rather than how you actually hold 
 the controller, you will find that the delay is much easier to cope with.
  While this delay (or flaw?) makes sense game wise, or hardware wise rather, it sure does not make 
 sense in the middle of a samba groove.
  
  Local multiplayer is also supported for two players if you have two Wii Remotes and two nunchucks 
 (or four Wii Remotes!) . There's Battle-, Classic- and Love Love Mode.
  The game is funnier when played together with another player because you will get to laugh at each 
 other's mistakes and enjoy the progress you are making. Because the intense nature of the game, 
 it's also nice as a party game where you can take turns with a bunch of people to allow for some 
 resting between songs.
  
  The game supports online leaderboards with the Nintendo Wi-Fi connection option. The idea of having 
 high score tables and comparing them against other players around the world is a solid concept, 
 but the developers should maintain the boards and check that no cheating is going on there. As 
 it appears now, many of the scores are fake and done with cheats or hacks and that basically ruins 
 the fun for everyone else.
  
  The visuals of the game are incredibly cheery and colorful. The design has a very well designed 
 and distinct look that suits the samba music perfectly. It's all very lively and full of rhythmic 
 energy. While playing the screen is very busy, full with bands playing and all kinds of characters 
 dancing away to the beat, including your Mii's. The style of the game is so much over-the-top that 
 you can't help thinking what the artists were high on when they designed it.
  It can't be denied that the characters and the funny-mad style all have a good potential in making 
 people smile and even laugh! And that alone is worth a lot. The graphics are also very crisp and 
 creative, making it fun to just watch while others are playing.
  
  Samba de Amigo is a game that's all about music. The 44 songs included in the game are more or 
 less worldwide hits. Some of the more prominent songs are "Macarena", "Aserej / The Ketchup Song", 
 "La Bamba" and "Tubthumping". Most songs are instantly recognized and they are all related to the 
 samba theme. Sega fans have all the reasons to miss the Sega game soundtrack songs from the original 
 Dreamcast versions as they are sadly not included in this release.
  There are, however song packs available for download for a fee. The price (500 Wii Points) can 
 be argued, but if you like the game it's great value to the total experience.
  
  This is a party game in the true sense of the word. The game delivers many pumping beats that are 
 sure to get you and the rest of your house all the way into the hot and sweaty samba groove. As 
 a matter of fact, you need not be surprised if this game will make you break a sweat just after 
 a few songs! If you allow yourself shake away to the game, it will be a good and fun workout for 
 you, as well as a memorable game experience.
  Samba de Amigo for the Wii is absolutely a game worth having, but don't expect it to be quite as 
 friendly towards casual players as it appears to be  the game mechanics must be learned thoroughly 
 before you can hope to play the game properly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w2rockstar
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 8:19 pm PT
Review:  When I bought Samba De Amigo for Wii I remembered the classic memories of the DC version. I hoped 
 that the Wii version would pick up on that greatness, and despite where other games of SEGA's are 
 headed (Sonic, I'm looking at you!) This game contributes to the classic magic that filled the 
 original:
  
  Story: Not Much here - Samba the main character is a well known mexican marraca shaking monkey 
 that looks as if he's made out of wood, he's popular and his maraca's seem magic. To get to this 
 place he is now, he was once poor and went to town, he eyed the red maraca's in the window of a 
 shop, he asked the shop keeper if he could try them, and so his career begins.
  
  Gameplay: Fine and Fun - No doubt you'll crack up or at least smile while playing this game, the 
 quirky gameplay feels fun to say the least.
  
  Music: The smooth latin styled music blends perfectly to the environment you're in - A festival!
 
  
  Controls/Main Issue: The controls are what lowers the games rating by 1.0. They aren't spot on, 
 but they'll usually work. When I play this game, I use 2 Remotes for higher accuracy so It isn't 
 much of an issue.
  
  Overall: A great, hilarious rhythm game that you will thoroughly enjoy, despite a few control errors. 
 9/10
  
  UPDATE: Turn's out that the controls can be made slightly more accurate thanks to:
  A: Manual 
 Calibration (Calibrate so that the "Circle" around you is very large)
  B: 2 Wii Remotes instead of Wii Remote And Nunchuk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamannt123
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 1:44 pm PT
Review:  After seeing the commercial and hearing how good the dreamcast game did, I decided to get the wii 
 version of samba de amigo. For $20 it was actually pretty cool.
  
  There isn't really a story, but the characters do dance in the backround. The main gameplay is 
 easy to pick up on. You can use two wiimotes or one wiimote and one nunchuk. There are 6 cirles 
 on the screen. Two red circles for the top, two yellow circles for the middle, and two green circles 
 for the bottom. Small balls will float to each circle. When a ball lines up with the middle of 
 a circle, you shake your remotes. When the balls go to the top, you point your controllers upwards 
 and shake them. When the balls go to the middle, you point the controllers right at the screen 
 and shake them. When the balls go to the bottom, you point the controllers down and shake them, 
 and etc. Dance moves add to the fun too. A stick figure guy will appear on-screen sometimes and 
 move his arms in a certain two circle area. You have to mimic him for a few seconds until he stops. 
 There is a tutorial that explains it pretty well, so don't worry about getting it right away.
 
  
  As you progress career mode (the main levels) , you will gain extra sound effects and bonus movies. 
 You start on easy and work your way up to super hard. The main reason this game wasn't rated better 
 is because of difficulty. After normal, the circles come at different directions and stuff. Sometimes 
 the controllers don't pick up movement when you want on hard and superhard, but after practice 
 you figure out how to make it work better.
  
  You can also just play regular songs for fun or play different minigames, so don't let difficulty 
 push you away.
  
  Overall, this is a creative, enjoyable party game that anyone could have fun with. Feel the beat, 
 shake your hands, and enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: new22003
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 7, 2009 5:51 pm PT
Review:  I loved Samba de Amigo on the Dreamcast and thought the wii was a great platform for it. Boy was 
 I wrong. The Dreamcast version is superior to the wii version in every aspect of game play and 
 equal to it on graphics. The controls are imprecise and often broken; on the Dreamcast they were 
 almost perfect. I can't believe technology has taken a step backward in motion detection but it 
 has. Obviously Samba de Amigo is not optimized for the wii properly. It is a quick and very lazy 
 port. Sad because it would have been one of the great games. The game involves random shaking more 
 than skill. Good for kids who are hyper I guess. I'm glad I only paid $14 for it, had I paid the 
 full $30 I would be extremely disgruntled. If I had it to do over again I would not even pay $1 
 for it. This is the worst game in my wii collection and I have some real stinkers. I give it a 
 2 just for the good memories it gives from my Dreamcast days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grorusso
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  welcome to one of the best music games ever and if you don't know it's Samba de Amigo come on get 
 your wii and let him start the party in your house! (or apartment lol)
  
  the good: has mini games, this game has one the best music selections ever!, very colorful and alive-like 
 stages not like boring stages like Dance Dance Revolution, Sonic and Ulala appear as guest
  
  the bad: sometimes the controls don't get your hand movements well, mini games are horrible their 
 no fun at all, Sonic um dances weird
  
  gameplay: really fun and a great selection of music plus Sonic (my Sega favorite) and Ulala (which 
 i have never played any of her games) make it to this game and also their stages
  
  controls: good and not as bad as people say but they do get annoying at times
  
  music: finally 
 music to play anytime and that you actually like them all the songs are great, great job SEGA
  
  
 
  
  final comment:
  
  this game gets really annoying in super hard mode i can't beat it! anyway i recommend this to all 
 music loving players and casual players
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pikazilla
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  People say that this game has bad wii control. Isn't that true with almost every other wii game? 
 This game is actually more forgiving than most games that need the wii remote. For those who don't 
 know, this game uses either 2 remotes or a remote and nunchuck for each player.
  
  This game has a lot of songs that are either Mexican, Latin, or very hyper. "The Theme of Rocky" 
 from the Rocky movies, "Soul Bossa Nova" from the Austin Powers movies and most of the other songs 
 from the original Samba de Amigo game.
  
  While playing the game, you shake your maracas, perform dances and pose for the audience. Each 
 stage has at least one of Amigo's friends and a crazy background. If you are in the D range, everything 
 is dark and slow. C range is when things look abnormal, with dancing buildings and crazy props. 
 B range is when everyone goes wild and on a dancing frenzy. A range sends everyone into a hippie 
 like rainbow portal where the background disappears but when everyone is more hyper than a cheetah 
 drinking coffee. There are 6 circles on the screen, showing where to shake the wii remote. Red 
 is at the top, yellow is in the middle and green is at the bottom.
  
  Passing a level is very easy, just don't be below a C when you finish the song or else Samba will 
 cry Getting a perfect score is hard, but not impossible.
  
  Easy levels won't include the green circle and will have only a few poses, not to mention less 
 notes and slower gameplay. After that, it gets harder and faster.
  
  Shaking your wii remotes like crazy can be exhausting, but it's good to know that this game gives 
 you more exercise than Wii Fit.
  
  There are many modes of gameplay, but normally, it's either normal or hustle. Hustle makes you 
 dance more than in normal mode.
  
  The game also has minigames, half are them are maraca related while others are short but original. 
 They don't seem that interesting.
  
  The 'story' mode is called career, possibly because the game doesn't really need a story, but the 
 enclosed instruction book says this
  Samba de Amigo was a monkey living in a mountain town with a poor family; wearing dirty clothing 
 made out of rags stitched together (sounds like Mexico) . One day, he discovered that he is an amazing 
 maraca player and uses his talent to 'wow' people everywhere. He becomes 'The king of Maracas' 
 but still lives in poverty. Despite Amgio's family being poor, his younger sister, Amiga, was already 
 a celebrity. She decides to allow Amigo to show his talents to the world. He too becomes a celebrity.
 
  
  Here are the other characters
  
  Linda- a samba dancer (rumored to be the hottest in town) who likes dancing and staying in shape. 
 She likes veggie diets.
  
  Bingo and Bongo- twin bears that are actually older than they look. They are comedians that are 
 always seen in large robot bears. They like marshmallows.
  
  Rio- A cat guy that, although is a man, looks like a girl. He plays the trumpet and likes onions.
 
  
  Chumba and Wamba- Chumba is a retired street gang boss that now is a mandolin player. He's the 
 short, fat cheetah with a scar. Wamba is the bartender and owner of a tavern while still being 
 an expert conga drum player. He's the tall thin cheetah.
  
  There are also some other characters you see in the game including a stick figure, cactus people 
 and the sun yes, the sun.
  
   so, since all the characters are famous and rich, the only thing they need to do is keep their 
 fame. In career mode, you play most of the songs in the game, but at different levels. Career mode 
 is only for unlocking songs and special modes to the game, other than that, it's just normal gameplay.
 
  
  For those who still are having trouble, make sure your wii or wii remotes are in good conditions, 
 adjust your sensor bar or practice. The training mode shows the basics and helps you understand 
 how to use the remotes. I noticed that the training mode narrator might be the voice of Amigo, 
 who sounds like an ordinary kid.
  
  Even if this game is getting an average score, remember this this game is about $10 less than 
 most wii games, which would explain its simple but fun gameplay. For the price, it deserves more 
 respect. But if the game's price was the same as all other wii games, it can only be worth a rent 
 unless you have friends that will face off in multiplayer.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asagea_888
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  I find music games to be really fun. My friend and I would play Parappa the Rapper throughout the 
 weekend nights trying to get good scores by tapping the corresponding buttons to the beat of some 
 fun rap music. Fast forward to present day, when rhythm games are a lot more interactive and involve 
 quite a bit of physicality. Sambo De Amigo is one such game; originally released for the Dreamcast 
 a while back. I never got the opportunity to own the DC game, but it wasn't until recently when 
 I caught interest in the franchise as the Wii version was being announced. 
  
  On the Wii, Samba De Amigo makes perfect sense. The Wiimote and Nunchaku are a good alternative 
 to the Dreamcast's maracas (although you can buy third-party maraca attachments for the Wii remotes.) 
 There are over 40 songs ranging from licensed music to original tunes, all appropriately akin to 
 the Samba flavor; some more than others, but that's okay. There's a handful of game modes like 
 Career Mode, Hustle Mode, Classic and even some minigames. 
  
  For the most part, the Wii controls work fairly well, and you can even use a second remote as a 
 second Maraca if you choose not to use a Nunchuck. But when it comes to some of the more difficult 
 song choices, they aren't always working with you. More often than not, I easily miss some of the 
 easier beats because the Wii remote or nunchaku doesn't respond at the right time when I need it 
 to, or doesn't even respond at all. This can be really frustrating because you can easily fail 
 certain songs when the Wii remote decides not to be responsive, and sometimes it doesn't even matter 
 how good you are. However, if you can grin and bear it, you'll have a good time trying to outperform 
 your score or completing various modes.
  
  Once you've gone through the entire song list, you can download and buy new song packs that are 
 released periodically when you pay a visit to the 'store'. How you enjoy and perceive the song 
 choices in these downloads are up to you.
  
  Overall, despite some problems, Samba De Amigo is a fun game to behold. Fans of the original game 
 will get a kick out of it, especially since they can experience Samba 2k for the first time in 
 addition to new modes and exclusive music. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dachyhound13
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 14, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  so when this games sequel came out on the dreamcast some years ago, I have to admit it was really 
 a weird game. you looked very stupid playing it. but zoom to 2008, we have so many music/rythm 
 games now and most turned out very well! well why not this game? its in the right spot to be presented 
 now, with music games all the rage. not to mention it being on the wii. it wouldnt be better on 
 any other console. and no you dont look stupid anymore playing it because you have an excuse-its 
 on the wii! dont over look this game just because of its stupid controls. its the fact of bringing 
 this game back with a sequel and making a pose once in a while. back then the prequel had much 
 crtitism for it. just give this game another try please. apply what i said and see if theres any 
 difference!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnknownHedgehog
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2008 3:51 am PT
Review:  9 years ago, Samba de Amigo was originally a music game developed by Sega and Sonic Team for the 
 Dreamcast. The game required players to shake their "maracas" in the right positions along the 
 music and occassionaly strike poses.
  
  Ever since then, fans have been begging Sega to make a remake, and finally their wish has come 
 true.
  
  Samba de Amigo returns with original gameplay elements from both the original and Ver. 2000 versions 
 for the Dreamcast such as Hustle Mode, Love Love Mode, Battle Mode and several minigames. Soundtrack 
 includes most of the songs from the Dreamcast versions as well as some Wii-exclusive tunes such 
 as Mambo No.5, Cha Cha, Do It Well, Oye Como Va, Un Aguardiente and many more.
  
  Despite occassional control problems that mainly occur during "Fast Moves," "Lower Crossovers" 
 and "Lower Wide Selection," Samba de Amigo: Wii Edition still delivers traditional musical gameplay 
 and is recommended for those who have missed out on the original Dreamcast version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kramzy
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  So Samba De Amigo on the wii is like any other third-party game for the wii; Boring, repetetive 
 and bad use of the wii remote and nunchuck. So why does this game sucks... well it doesnt SUCK but 
 its not GOOD either because when you start playing this game you will get bored of it in at least 
 half hour. It's got a good collection of songs, but THE CONTROLS f***** this game i mean when i 
 played you have to be accurate as hell if you want the controls to respond to your move my arms 
 got tired aftwe 10 minutes after playing this and thats all the time i spend playing this game 
 i mean i loved this game on The PS2 EyeToy, never played the DC version but all i can say that 
 this game is just mediocre/fair. So if you love rhytm games and waweing your arms like an idiot 
 and getting them tired after 10 minutes of playing this game buy this game. Ask me im can sell 
 it to you for 5 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueKazoo20
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  I love action/rhythm games. Game series like Guitar Hero and Dance Dance Revolution, as well as 
 lesser known games like Frequency and Elite Beat Agents are great fun in my book. There was one 
 music game in particular that I always wanted to play; the erratic, energetic Samba de Amigo for 
 Sega Dreamcast. A game where you play as a monkey in a sombrero, shaking actual maracas to the 
 beat of hot latin and samba music? Color me interested! Sadly, I was never given the opportunity 
 to play it. When I heard software company Gearbox (known for their latest Brothers in Arms game, 
 Hell's Highway) , was making a Samba de Amigo game for Nintendo's motion crazy Wii console, I was 
 naturally excited that I was finally going to be able to try it out. Unfortunately, after playing 
 Gearbox's version of Samba, I can't help but feel disappointed.
  
  There's really no storyline to the game; you play as Amigo, a monkey with a burning passion for 
 playing the maracas, and you join a bunch of other crazy characters as you party hard to some samba-infused 
 tunes. You use the Wii remote and Nunchuck (or two remotes, if you wish) to represent your maracas. 
 On screen, there are six targets: two high ones, two middle, two low. The object of the game is 
 to move your arms and tilt the controllers to select these targets (highlighted by white cursors) , 
 then give them a shake when the rhythm balls overlap the targets to the beat and rhythm of the 
 music. It sounds complicated, but it's actually quite fun in practice... for a while.
  
  When I first heard of this Wii-make, I was a bit fearful about the motion controls, especially 
 when using the Nunchuck. Do they respond to the game well? Yes and no. Playing the game Nunchuck 
 style works surprisingly well, though the wire surely gets in the way when in Hustle mode, where 
 you perform different, simple dance moves. I highly suggest playing the game with two remotes for 
 some more freedom, though for some players this can be financially impossible.
  
  No matter which style you choose, the controls themselves are a bit inaccurate. According to what 
 I heard, the original Dreamcast and arcade versions of Samba used a special maracas peripheral, 
 which measured how high or low you're holding the controllers. The Wii remote should easily been 
 able to do the same thing, but it seems to have a hard time reading certain movements. Whenever 
 I hold the remote up high, the game sometimes reads it as holding it in the middle.
  
  I blame that new "target select" thing. It just doesn't work well in a game like this. Instead 
 of reading how high or low your arms are, it reads how high or low you tilt the remote and Nunchuck. 
 In other words, not only do you have to move your arms, but you also have to adjust your wrists 
 to hold the controllers just right. Even if you have your arms down low, if you tilt the controllers 
 upward, while the arms are down low, you highlight the higher targets. This game takes finesse, 
 but most of the songs are too rapid for you to take the time to do so. This can get annoying.
 
  
  Samba isn't completely broken, though. It's just has a bit of a learning curve. You'll eventually 
 find your groove with the controllers you're using with a little practice. Once you get the controls 
 down pat, then you're ready to play an essentially fun game.... that is, if you stick with the Easy 
 and Normal difficulties. Switching to Hard mode can be a huge pain, and it sure isn't fun. When 
 you're shaking and swaying to a certain song on Easy mode, your moves are more stiff as you try 
 to accurately try to hit the seemingly hundreds of rhythm balls flying at you at once. For the 
 life of me, I still can't beat a song on Hard mode. Don't even get me started on the Very Hard 
 difficulty. In fact, I never touched it. Hard mode alone was enough for me.
  
  Now the one thing Samba does get right is the music. A company named Wavegroup was in charge of 
 the music in the new Samba, and they did a fantastic job. There are some fun songs that will definitely 
 get you moving, such as "Samba de Janero," "Vamos a Carnaval!," "The Cup of Life," and one song 
 I haven't heard in a while, "Asereje" (anyone remember the Ketchup Dance?) . There are some more 
 familiar songs infused with a samba beat, including some obvious ones like Ricky Martin's "Livin' 
 La Vida Loca" and Rob Thomas' "Smooth," but there are others that got a complete samba makeover, 
 such as "Take on Me" and "Tubthumping," which sound great in the game. And these tracks are just 
 the tip of the iceberg.
  
  Some other things I should mention: Samba Wii is Wi-Fi enabled. There's a basic leaderboard option 
 (only used among those sharing Friend Codes, sadly) , as well as a Pay & Play option, where you 
 can purchase and download new songs to play in the game. To my knowledge, this is the first Wii 
 game to have DLC, so it's quite an accomplishment. Another thing I forgot to mention were the mini-games, 
 but they all have limited appeal.
  
  As much as I wanted to play a fun game like Samba de Amigo, it looks like the Wii version was a 
 bad way to go. It's still a fun game, don't get me wrong. But all the negative things about, mostly 
 the controls, outweigh the positive. The music is top notch, but combining that with unresponsive 
 controls, especially in the harsher difficulties, isn't such a good mix. I believe the original 
 Samba, with maracas controllers, worked much better than this. If only you could have an add-on 
 to the remote that can read higher and lower motions better than the remote alone, like that new 
 WiiMotion Plus peripheral coming out early next year. That extra accelerometer could've made a 
 better, more accurate Samba experience, and could've gotten rid of that crappy, inaccurate target 
 select business. Care to try again, Gearbox? 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
