-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Samurai Warriors: Katana
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/samuraislash/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Wreaking havoc on legions of soldiers can be mildly amusing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 You're not even playing as one of the historical figures.
 A vastly different game experience that will alienate the series' fan base.
 Atrocious enemy artificial intelligence.
 Horrendous use of motion controls.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  5, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 5.4, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 6.0, 96 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Koei
Genre: Historic Tactical Shooter
Date: Jan 16, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Koei's Sengoku-era-inspired Samurai Warriors franchise hits a new low with this on-rails first-person 
 action game. 

  The Dynasty/Samurai Warriors franchise is about as polarizing as you get. Either you love the series' 
 completely mindless hacking and slashing, or you hate it, not least of all because every entry 
 is essentially the exact same game. This time, Koei decided to mix things up a bit by applying 
 its tried-and-true formula of button-mashing, beat-'em-up action to the first-person on-rails shooter 
 genre. Unfortunately, Samurai Warriors: Katana is as boring as it is uninspired, and includes some 
 of the worst motion controls available on the Wii. Even diehard fans of the series will find it 
 difficult to enjoy; this is a Samurai Warriors game in name only.  

  Like the other games in the series, Katana takes place in the Sengoku era of Japan's tumultuous 
 history. Against the backdrop of several powerful factions warring to unite the entire nation, 
 you will battle with or against the forces of legendary figures such as Nobunaga Oda, Yukimura 
 Sanada, and Ieyasu Tokugawa. In a bizarre twist that is one of the most disappointing parts of 
 the game, you don't actually get to play as one of these historical giants, but rather must assume 
 the guise of a nameless warrior in their armies. In the rare opportunities that you get to see 
 yourself, you're depicted as one of the random soldiers that you spend the entire game beating 
 up by the hundreds.  

           As disappointing as this sounds, that is not Shredder.      

  Each of the less-than-historically 
 canonical stories have overall themes that range from becoming a master ninja to collecting the 
 most attractive women in Japan and then deciding which is the most beautiful (by beating up the 
 ones who are not, of course) . The individual missions you participate in include tasks such as 
 breaking into a heavily fortified enemy stronghold by climbing a poorly placed staircase along 
 the outside, or stopping enemy cavalry with your scoped, semiautomatic musket. As you can probably 
 tell, Katana doesn't exactly take itself seriously. In many ways, the bizarre sense of humor that 
 it exhibits -- such as the always entertaining way in which bosses rag-doll backward in slow motion 
 upon defeat -- works in its favor, but it ultimately proves to be nothing more than a brief aside 
 that tries to take your mind off of the insipid combat system and terrible controls.  

  As a first-person on-rails action game, combat in Katana is as cut and dry as can be. A targeting 
 reticle appears onscreen wherever your Wii Remote is pointed, and whichever weapon you currently 
 have equipped is poorly mapped to its position. Each of the four types of melee weapons you can 
 use work fundamentally the same, in that you target the enemies you want to kill and mash the A 
 button. However, the weapons do differ in the type and degree of gratuitous controller waggling 
 required to use their charged and Musou attacks; by the time you complete the game, you will have 
 thrust your controller at the screen more times than you would care to admit in polite conversation. 
 Ranged weapons are more varied, in that each operates completely differently, but they suffer from 
 the same motion-control issues as the melee weapons. At best, you'll simply point and hit the B 
 trigger, and at worst, you'll fight to swing your controller horizontally at just the right speed 
 while trying to prevent it from interpreting your motion as a vertical toss.  

  The most egregious use of motion controls is not in the way that you must engage in combat, but 
 rather in the ridiculous minigames you're forced to participate in during missions. When riding 
 a horse, you'll have to turn your Wii Remote on its side and tilt it left or right to steer while 
 flailing the Nunchuk to gain speed. When dodging spear soldiers and spiked balls on an excruciatingly 
 slow march uphill, you'll have to turn both controllers from side to side. Furthermore, in what 
 is quickly shaping up to be a video-game-related crime against humanity, whenever you need to get 
 anywhere fast you'll run by alternately swinging your controllers forward.  

  Throughout the game, your normal combat strategy amounts to knowing or guessing when to block. 
 Boss battles are slightly more involving, but in the end amount to nothing more than a matter of 
 memorizing attack patterns through painful trial and error. As if they recognized that these encounters 
 were completely one-dimensional, developers Omega Force mixed things up a bit in select battles 
 by introducing new abilities, such as the power to slow down time to reveal weak spots that wouldn't 
 otherwise be seen. Unfortunately, normal boss fights seem watered-down and frankly incomplete after 
 experiencing some of these skills, and it's unclear why they weren't implemented for the rest of 
 the game, given that it would have gone a long way toward improving the otherwise-stale gameplay. 

  At the end of each mission, your performance is rated and you're awarded gold, which you can use 
 to purchase role-playing-game-style ability upgrades and helpful disposable items, or to add special 
 powers to your weapons. To earn even more money, you can redo story missions or participate in 
 optional trials that assign you a rapid series of tasks. If you want a break from solo play, Katana 
 offers local multiplayer support. Oddly enough, the multiplayer doesn't include co-op, and instead 
 forces you to compete in a number of different split-screen modes.  

  For the entire length of Katana, you will battle wave after wave of entirely dispensable soldiers, 
 samurai, and ninja with artificial intelligence so brain-dead that you'll begin to question exactly 
 how it was that their real-life counterparts ever managed to accomplish anything. Despite the number 
 of enemies onscreen at any given time, they will for the most part politely take turns trading 
 blows with their friends, and in the few chances they get to surround you on the missions that 
 are not on rails, they won't so much as raise a hand against you if you're not looking directly 
 at them.  

           If you enjoy waggling your controller around randomly, this game is for you.      

 
  Katana certainly isn't the prettiest game on the block. Enemies are as generic-looking as ever, 
 and after killing a hundred or so identical swordsmen, you begin to wonder where the cloning facilities 
 are. Every castle, dungeon, and village looks similarly mass-produced, and exploring any of these 
 drab locations induces an overt sense of dj vu. The sound effects aren't much of an improvement. 
 The repetitive sounds of every enemy scream, sword slash, and so on seem to blur into each other 
 endlessly, and the brief amount of voice acting is half-hearted at best. On the other hand, Katana's 
 music is a completely bizarre blend of traditional Japanese instruments and ambient electronica 
 that entirely embraces the kitschy nature of the game -- something that you wish that the rest of 
 it did -- and somehow seems wholly appropriate.  

  While Samurai Warriors: Katana is a departure from the assembly line of the Dynasty Warriors franchise, 
 it provides such a vastly different and ultimately inferior experience that it ironically manages 
 to alienate the fan base that made it so popular. Although it does offer a somewhat lengthy single-player 
 campaign, with side missions and multiplayer, the poor motion controls and the complete lack of 
 compelling gameplay make this a game best avoided.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: snakes3425
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 5, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  The Warriors Series, has always been known for producing games, that are extremely addicting, dispite 
 the repetive nature of it's gameplay, owing in no small part to it's large colorful cast of playable 
 characters, good controls, and compeling story lines drawn from all aspects of Japan's Warring 
 States and China's Three Kingdoms Periods. Samurai Warriors: Katana though, breaks with the traditional 
 mold of a Samurai/Dynasty Warriors game, and the results are a mixed bag. 
  
  One of the game's best features is the fact that it's a first person game, where as most Dynasty/Samurai 
 Warriors games are told from a 3rd person perspective, Katana's first person persepective helps 
 add a sense of realism to the game. Katana has kept much of the Warriors interface intact, including 
 being able to equip and upgrade your weapons and abilities. The graphics of the game are okay, 
 and there is a lot of detail put into the back grounds and armor the various enemies wear, and 
 the controls of the game are fairly easy to use.
  
  However in terms of gamplay, Katana bears all the halmarks of a game that has been canablized. 
 In most Warriors games, the player can select from upwards of 70 different characters, both male 
 and female and each with their own unique weapons and special moves. However with Katana the selection 
 is reduced to one character, though fan favorites such as Oda Nobungaga, make apperences in the 
 game. 
  
  The worst feature of the game though is the loss of menuverability. In most Warriors game, the 
 player is given free reign to move across the board, killing enemies, assissting allies, and completing 
 primary objectives when they appear, however in Katana the character moves of his own free will, 
 and always in a straight line from one objective to another, only stopping to fight enemies. Another 
 major flaw this game has, is the loss of power ups to restore your mushu and health. 
  
  While the controls are somewhat stable, and easy to use, they are also misleading. The box art 
 of Katana leads one to believe that you'll be using the WiiMote's motion sensing feature to preform 
 both basic and special attacks, while using the Nunchuck's control stick to move. However through 
 out the game, the player discovers that the motion sensing is limited only to special sword/spear 
 attacks, while the A-button preforms basic attacks. The only time you fully use the Wii's motionsensing 
 technology to it's fullest, is during a Mushu attack, which is activated by shaking the Nunchuck, 
 and then swinging the WiiMote around.
  
  Over all the idea of a First Person Warriors Game is really ambitious and Katana could easily have 
 been a great game, however it ultimatly has the feeling of a canabalized game when compared to 
 it's Xbox and Playstation counterparts. While the game will undoubitally appeal to fans of the 
 Warriors Series, the game should be rented before deciding to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jacobar
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 10, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  There are so many tales that this game is not covering the things it promised, i must shamefully 
 agree. The controls are a bit difficult to understand at points, especially aiming a bow... There 
 is ONE level where all you have is the bow, shoot six times quickly reload... TO MUCH INFORMATION!!
 
  Anyway, the game is good following the whole japanese history bases like the previous games have 
 been doing. Maybe we might be looking forward to a dynasty warriors for the wii??
  Anywho, The game is good for over 12s as it has been labled as younger children will find it very 
 difficult. The game has about 5 Main Levels in which there are about 6 inner levels containg from 
 3-6 Inner inner levels, which you must complete. Along the way you learn how to handle new weapons, 
 which come in handy after a few more battle. There is a sword (defult) Spear, Hammer and A blade 
 disk thinggy... The ranged are, Bow (first) , Gun, Cannon and something else i cant remember.
  But once you get the hang of the controls for each one, you'll find the game to be a cool breeze.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wahyudil
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  I don't know why people hate it, but for me who love playing virtual katana game in the arcade, 
 this is my game. With lots of variation in stages, character skill and weapon improvement, characters 
 and stories from samurai warrior games, this game is perfect! I spent days for playing this game.
 
  
  Maybe this is not a game for hardcore. This game is good game for busy gamers like me, who want 
 to spent their spare time while drinking tea in the afternoon and need some little action. If you 
 love samurai warrior or dynasty warrior game, buy them instead, this is not the same game, but 
 another different game that has unique control, challenging, and really really fun.
  
  The control is great. There are about 6-7 kind of weapons, each with different control style that 
 make the game rich. But if you play this game with your wii-mote still wrapped in the plastic jacket, 
 then the control will become difficult. Maybe this is the reason why people says that the control 
 of the game is bad. But if you stand in the right position from TV (about 1 M) and open the jacket, 
 the control is smooth.
  
  What I like form this game is that you play as yourself. You will bring your achievement (gold, 
 items, skills, weapons) from one stage to another. You don't need to play different characters 
 again and again through stages to collecting weapons and items. 
  
  But the short scenarios (only 4 campaigns, even you can spent 2-10 hours per campaign) are a little 
 dissapointment. I just hope for more stories and collectibles. Althought the stages is very fun 
 and interesting, I like to play the same stages over and over again for getting the bonus, items 
 or the highest ranking or to gather the gold and upgrade my skills.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arydholm04
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  I am an avid fan of the Dynasty/Samurai Warriors games, I have owned practically ever game since 
 the first Dynasty Warriors came out. When I heard that koei was making a samurai warriors game 
 for the wii I thought, hey this could be a cool idea for some motion based gameplay. However, the 
 problem lies in that this game is an on-rails style game. It's made to play like a light gun shooter 
 sort of like the latest Resident Evil game the Umbrella Chronicles. 
  The game goes through the several different armies of the samurai games and has pretty much the 
 same voice actors as the other games. The gameplay isn't necessarily bad, it just gets old really 
 fast. You pretty much hit the "A" button to slash with your sword and move the wii remote horizontally 
 while slashing to pull off a charge attack. It sounds rather simple, which it is and the blocking 
 system with the "Z" button works pretty well too, but the levels all feel too similar and the game 
 doesn't give you the ability to move on your own other than moving the nunchuk analog stick to 
 look left to right. It's not the worst warriors game, but it could definitely have used a little 
 bit more brainstorming. The core game is satisfactory as far as the warriors games go, but the 
 gameplay is severely lacking in fun and originality. So I guess my final verdict is that if you 
 are a warriors fan, rent it don't buy it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
