-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Scarface: The World Is Yours
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/scarface/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 There are no other Wii games out there quite like Scarface.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 but that doesn't excuse its poor control, ridiculous storyline, and uninteresting mission design.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 18, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.8
Critic Score: 7.4, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 387 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Radical Ent.
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Jun 12, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There's nothing else quite like Scarface on the Wii yet, but the gamepad-to-Wii Remote transition 
 has made this lackluster game play even worse. 

  Scarface: The World Is Yours was a shoddy Grand Theft Auto-style game that was released on the 
 PlayStation 2, PC, and Xbox last year. Now, for whatever reason, Vivendi has decided to bring the 
 game to the Wii. On the surface that's not a bad idea, because there's nothing else like it currently 
 available on Nintendo's platform. But adapting a game with a ton of different controls for a controller 
 that wasn't built for this sort of action makes an already-lackluster game a little worse.  

          In this scene, Virtual Al Pacino fires his agent for getting him into this polygonal 
 mess in the first place.     

  The World Is Yours is based on the movie  Scarface , but rather than duplicate the events of the 
 movie or make some kind of prequel, the developers decided to make a sequel. The only problem is 
 that Tony Montana, the movie's lead character, dies at the end in a blaze of cocaine-fueled rage 
 and gunfire. So in order for the game to occur, they've gone back and rewritten the movie so that 
 Al Pacino's Cuban coke lord gets away at the end, but loses his entire drug empire, his mansion, 
 and yes, even his tiger. Resetting his net worth back to zero and giving you a reason to get revenge 
 sets the game in motion. You need to rebuild your drug empire and exact your revenge on the guys 
 who caused your downfall, one neighborhood at a time.  

  Rewriting the ending to a movie just to justify a sequel is a tough pill to swallow, especially 
 when you're dealing with an ending as memorable as the one in  Scarface . It's likely that some 
 fans of the film will never be able to get over that hump and despise the game for existing in 
 the first place. But if you can deal with the concept -- you'll take control of Montana shortly after 
 the "Say hello to my little friend" line and orchestrate his getaway yourself -- you'll find a foul-mouthed, 
 bloody adventure that does next to nothing with the characters. In the film, you saw Tony Montana 
 grow from a simple refugee to the king of the coke world. In the game, the shock of losing his 
 empire causes Tony to clean up his act and get off the yayo so he can start dealing again. Then 
 you basically kill everyone who wronged you, all while talking about the need to have balls. The 
 whole experience feels flat and often self-conscious. It's as if the creators of the game watched 
 the movie, picked out a few common words that Tony Montana would say ("cock-a-roach," "balls," 
 "f***," "chico," and "coo") , and then set about writing dialogue that uses those words as often 
 as possible.  

  It might not feel terribly true to the spirit of the film, but as a game, Scarface is functional. 
 You're given the open city of Miami to drive around right off the bat, though you'll be doing business 
 in only one part of the city at a time. You start in Little Havana, and your goal is to take back 
 that part of town so you can deal cocaine unabated by the other dealers that have risen during 
 your three-month absence. You take back the streets by going to war with gangs that have taken 
 up residence in various parts of the neighborhood. These gangs are denoted by a skull on your map, 
 and your task here is to roll up to the thugs, open fire, and not stop shooting until they're all 
 dead. You'll also need to buy businesses in each part of town, mainly so that you can use them 
 as drug fronts, and you won't able to advance the story if you don't. But you can't just waltz 
 in and buy each business right away. Business owners have specific tasks that you must complete 
 before they'll sell. That means you'll have to go on a mission. Some of the missions make perfect 
 sense and fit with something Tony Montana would do, like defending a restaurant from attackers. 
 Another has you guarding a speedboat from a fixed gun position on a helicopter while it tries to 
 find shark fins to make shark-fin soup for a wedding party at another restaurant. The slightly 
 goofy missions make the whole game feel disjointed and flippant.  

          Press A to sell coke. Clearly, Scarface is for the children.     

  In addition to the 
 main process of completing missions and buying front businesses, there's the more open-ended goal 
 of making money and building a reputation. You have a reputation level that increases for a variety 
 of reasons, including completing missions, and you won't be able to take on some missions unless 
 your reputation is at a certain level. If you need to earn a lot of rep, that might mean you go 
 several hours without progressing the story because you need to earn money to purchase junk for 
 your mansion, which raises your rep and also gives you access to the stupidly named "pimp my mansion" 
 feature.  

  Or, you can just go on what seems like an infinite number of side missions to help out coke suppliers, 
 usually by defending them from attackers for a minute or two. Once that's done, you can get connected 
 with the suppliers and purchase cocaine. Grams can be dealt on your own to street dealers or through 
 your front businesses, though the street dealers usually give you more money for your product. 
 As you move up the food chain and take over entire neighborhoods, you get access to supply warehouses. 
 Around that point, you can start buying by the kilo and store those fat keys of powder in your 
 warehouse. Once you've stored some coke, you can then go on a distribution mission, which has you 
 drive around to your various front businesses, ostensibly to deliver the coke you've accumulated. 
 But all you really do is drive around and run over boxes that give you money. During this process, 
 gangs will show up and attempt to attack or take out your front businesses, but they never get 
 too hard to deal with. Completing distribution is a great way to earn a lot of cashdirty 
 cash.     

  The game keeps track of two different sums of money. Your cash on hand is treated as dirty money, 
 and when you die, you lose all the grams and dirty money on your person. The only way to protect 
 your money is to go to a bank and launder it, which also lets you save your game. The laundering 
 process isn't automatic, though. Whenever you go to deposit your cash, a golf-swing-style meter 
 appears with various percentages on it. That percentage represents how much of a cut the bank will 
 take for cleaning up your cash flow. You need to hold down a button to start the meter moving and 
 let off when it reaches a success zone at the end to get the lowest rate. This same meter shows 
 up throughout the game and is used to intimidate gangs, fast-talk your way past police, sell grams 
 of coke to dealers, and even disarm bombs. It's a clever system that makes you feel as though you're 
 actually working to accomplish these tasks, rather than just pressing a button, though it's not 
 very hard and you'll rarely fail once you get the hang of it. Two other factors impact some of 
 these meters, too. Your heat with local gangs impacts how much money you'll get for selling coke 
 to dealers. Your heat with the police affects the percentage the banks will offer to launder your 
 cash. You can pay either of them down with bribes, though the best way to deal with the police 
 is to not attract their attention in the first place.  

          Scarface usually looks pretty good, though it has several noticeable flaws with its frame 
 rate and cutscenes.     

  The game's control was fairly standard on the older consoles, with one stick to move and another 
 to turn the camera and aim your guns. On the Wii, the game requires use of the Nunchuk attachment, 
 and the developer managed to shoehorn in every different command, with often-annoying results. 
 For starters, you need to constantly aim the remote at the screen, because it controls both your 
 aiming and your camera movement. There are four different levels of camera control, which alter 
 the amount of screen space devoted to aiming and the amount devoted to camera movement. When you 
 get to the edge of the aiming section (which isn't marked onscreen) , it starts rotating the camera. 
 None of the four settings feels even remotely comfortable or easy to deal with, which means you're 
 getting blasted while attempting to turn and fire. Pushing down on the D pad causes you to do a 
 quick 180-degree turn, which is absolutely key. The analog stick on the Nunchuk moves Tony around 
 the screen. The Nunchuk is also used for taunting and honking your horn, both of which are done 
 by flicking the Nunchuk up, which seems totally random. While it's somewhat impressive on some 
 level that the developer managed to cram a standard gamepad-controlled game onto the Wii Remote 
 and Nunchuk, it's never fun to play, and you'll feel like you're fighting the controls from start 
 to finish.  

  On the visual side, Scarface looks roughly on par with the Xbox version of the game, though it 
 obviously supports only 480p, not the higher-res 720p you could enable in the original Xbox version. 
 The frame rate usually stays solid, and the characters' faces animate pretty well. Unfortunately, 
 though, all the faces show seams between their polygons, which totally ruins every single up-close 
 cutscene in the game. As for the look of the world, the game does a decent job of creating a believable 
 1980s Miami and its surrounding islands.  

          We have no joke here, we just like saying '7,000 balls!'     

  The audio side of the 
 game is all over the place. While the first credit in the game might say "Al Pacino" right on the 
 screen, that's just because the character looks like the original Tony Montana. The final credit, 
 however, is the credit for the voice actor portraying the lead character by doing his best Tony 
 Montana impression. He's pretty good, and just like in the movie, most of his lines are absolutely 
 packed with cursing. And as the movie was back when it was new, this may be one of the most curse-filled 
 games around. The rest of the voice cast is full of fairly big names that don't necessarily sound 
 like the sort of names you'd want in a Scarface game, like Bam Margera and Jason Mewes. The rest 
 of the sound effects are as you'd expect. There are good gunshot effects, and the car engines sound 
 decent.  

  Overall, Scarface: The World Is Yours is more a victim of some poor design choices than any glaring 
 technical issues. The developer accomplished the task of bringing Tony Montana back to life. But 
 by taking the focus off of the gameplay elements that you'd want in an open-city game and putting 
 it more on the game's bland mission design and all the dull side tasks you'll have to do to earn 
 a reputation, Scarface doesn't play to its potential strengths. The end result is a functional 
 game that presents an interesting premise, but underneath you'll find a wholly uninteresting game 
 that plays worse than ever on the Wii. The Wii Remote and Nunchuk are perfectly capable of playing 
 a wide variety of exciting games, but Scarface isn't one of them.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (27 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Wiiownzzz
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2009 11:21 am PT
Review:  I knew someone would have the "balls" to make a GTA like game for the Wii. They did a very good 
 job too. Just like GTA it provides you with wonderful gameplay and freedom to do almost anything. 
 There are some quirks that makes this game unlike GTA but that is not why they made it. Here's 
 is what I got to say. Out of all my years playing video games this game has said the MOST curse 
 words I have ever heard in my life (in video games) ! Knowing Spanish as well makes it even more 
 crucial. Every sentence that this man says has a major curse word in it. I find it very amusing! 
 I also enjoy the bursting blood puddles that bulge out of peoples faces when you shoot them. I 
 have no idea why Gamespot gave this game a horrible score, they are probably rating it under GTA 
 terms. You can't really compare this game to GTA because the purpose of this game isn't to randomly 
 beat up some old lady on the street, lol. All in all this a great replacement for Rockstars GTA 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: copp62
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  i have no idea where gamespot got their facts for this game at but this game doesn't have crappy 
 controls or any of that.
  
  this game is really really hard to find but if you find it buy it. it took me a really long time 
 to find this game but i found it at one of the last places i would ever excpect to find it and 
 that place is K mart. and i now love K mart because i got this game and my wii at K mart. but on 
 with the review.
  
  IGN gave this game a 8.5 out of 10 and said it is one of the 20 games you should have in your collection 
 but does that make it good?? the answer is no. this game is not good it is great and i say no to 
 the question above because it is great on its on. the game is kinda like gta excpect you can't 
 kill pedestians but there are plenty of gang scum to kill. and another thing is you cannot go on 
 rampages or stuff like that because if the timer runs out for you to escape the cops then you are 
 f***ed and the game actually says "You are f***ed" and believe me i have tryed many times to escape 
 tham but there is like hundreds of them and when in this time they do not show your health or ammo. 
 the game story takes place during the last part of Scarface the movie and if you have never seen 
 the movie then you should not play this game. the mansion part i should say is when this game takes 
 place and believe me again that it feels really good to kill that scum who killed tony in the movie. 
 in the game you have to repair your empire by selling coke or cocaine and buying fronts to spread 
 it. the distribute missions are the way you get money and it kinda makes you mad when trying to 
 do these missions. with people trying to destroy your front and you're not even half way there 
 you can't help but scream. but these missions are the way you make money so you are forced to do 
 them. the graphics kinda suck with buildings and trees poping up at the last second but the character 
 models look good.
  
  this game has lots and lots of blood and violence to go around so don't worry if nintendo would 
 cut down some of the blood and all that. the game has a rage mode in which you shoot a limb off 
 somebody or kill them and then you get balls in which if you enough then you go into rage mode 
 which is a fps part where you have unlimted ammo and health and tony tauts them like theres no 
 tomorrow. you are also allowed to have conversations with the people around you except the gang 
 scum and instead of talking to them you taut them. the music takes a different appoach then gta. 
 instead of radio stations there are tape players. and your allowed to listen to it while your blasting 
 gang scum. the game has some pretty nice guns and cars but the world is kinda small. you can buy 
 henchmen that do your dirty work. your also allowed to control them an they are allowed to kill 
 pedestrians and they all have different missions you can do and get money for. you are also allowed 
 to swim in this game but if you swim too long or swim in the wrong sea then you get eaten by a 
 shark. also not even 5 minutes in the game someone gets eaten by a tiger.
  
  After 20 to 25 or so hours you've seen it all altough you can play it again though. or buy more 
 stuff. overall this should be in your wii collection. if you like action shooters and seen the 
 long but great movie then you should have this game but that's if you can find it.
  
  i give Scarface The World Is Yours for Wii a 9.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhofever
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  It may not be Grand Theft Auto , but it does bring back good memories of the free-roaming-in-city 
 games.
  I expected this game to be boring but when I started playing it, I couldn't put down my Wii Mote 
 and Nunchuck.
  
  I would also wake up every morning, have breakfast, then play a little of Scarface. Any game that 
 i spend a lot of time on is a game i definitely enjoy. The gameplay is not what you expect, it 
 has some difference. 
  
  In Scarface, you'll have to be doing drug dealing and some side missions in order to rise up the 
 ranks and get money, and of course, you can spend that money on better cars and cool stuff for 
 your mansion.
  
  Another cool feature is that you can switch to your driver or hitman ( that's if, you've hired 
 them) and take control of them and earn money using them. The money earned is forwarded to your 
 main character, Tony Montana, and so you can bank that money.
  
  It may have made good use of the Wii Mote, but it is fun nonetheless. The graphics are actually 
 quite good for its game style. It is like Driver meets Grand Theft Auto. The visuals are more than 
 what you expect in San Andreas, perhaps even better. 
  
  I don't care what people say, this game is very enjoyable, especially for the Wii since it had 
 hardly any free-roaming-in-the-city games a few months ago.
  Worth the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathew_vartuli
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 6, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  I am going to say this once, if you love scarfac, your gonna love this game. If you got no interest 
 in Scarface, don't bother buying it. For one, i love Scarface, i think it's a great movie and to 
 bring out a game is great. To be honest, the storyline of the game is very weak. You start at the 
 end of the movie, trying to escape from Sosa's gang that comes and to kill you. After you escape 
 in your limo with one of your henchmen , your total empire has been broken and you need to regain 
 you reputation. You go through a series of missions to collect money and drugs so you can buy back 
 your mansion and warehouses. You have to buy back all the shoops, which have some annoying missions. 
 You also travel to different islands to do other dirty missions for the sandman. You than travel 
 to Sosa's mansion in Boliva, and kill Gomez and Sosa. When playing with the wii, some extra cutscenes 
 have been added to the game since it came out after the other game consoles.
  
  The audio is not up to notch, with the voice acting pretty bad. The graphics just as well, for 
 all game consoles. They look horrible. the new exotics page is a good feature, where you can buy 
 henchmen, cars, boats and weapons. The wii control format is pretty good, and it's a good game 
 for the wii because there is no other game like it (excuse the Godfather) .
  
  Scarface: The World is Yours is a great game for someone you like scarface, for others rent it 
 first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: humantnt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  At First I Wasnt Sure On Buying This Game, Im Glad I Did, It Is Such A Fun Game And Well Presented
 
  
  Graphics: The visuals are good not great, They Are Quite Decent but At Times you will notice a 
 flaw here and there, like the blood isnt too great. 
  7/10
  
  Audio: Audio is extremely Good With All The Phrases Tony Montanna Says, Gunfire Etc..10/10
  
 
  The Storyline: A Great Storyline, A Extremely Long One Too A Great Spin-off From The Movie.
  
  The Controls: The Controls are quite Good The interaction Makes It Fun And The Aiming Is Great 
 With The Wiimote.
  
  The Fun: This game is great Fun With driving, Getting Drugs, Making Money, Buying Exotics, Killing 
 Gangs Or Having Random Convo's With People On The Street And Its so cool how when u shoot someone 
 it comes up on the screen in small writing leg shot, nut shot, Groin Shot Etc And It Gives Record 
 Of All Ur Kills Etc, The gangs are found in all citys and u must kill them all.
  
  It Has A Balls Meter, Where u kill An Amount Of People With Certain Skill And When Its Full U Become 
 Invincible, And There is a red circle u must escape it to get away from coppas.
  
  This game is very underappreciated, maybe if people played it before they dissed it, it would be 
 loved by more it is sad the score gamespot gave it, it is truly pothetic for their view on some 
 games but what can you do. This Game Is Usually Compared Against Gta San Andreas But I Say They 
 Are Better Than each Other In Very Different ways
  
  The Good: Driving, Exotics, Weapon System, The Gore, The Cop System, Giant Music Selection.
  The Bad: Cover 
 System, The Dumb Enemys, No Jump Button
  
  This Game Is Really Fun And The Gore Is Excellent
  Anyone Who Hates This Game Should Really Take 
 The Time To Play It, It Will Definitly Change Your Mind I Assure You, This Game May Have It Flaws 
 At Times But They Are Hardly Noticeable.
  
  Real Score 8.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  I got this game at Gamestop last year when I traded in 2 used Wii games and get one new one, at 
 the time there was nothign else out to get so that's why I got it. 
  
  I enjoyed this game, it is very similar to the 80's style of the Grand Theft Auto Vice City of 
 a few years ago. But the gameplay was great the characters were great, there was violence with 
 a chainsaw and cussing like you wouldn't believe, DEFINATELY rated "M" for Mature! I like that!
 
  
  I get tired of boring games without foul language and lack of blood, this game had it all! Drugs, 
 women, blood, cussing, great game!
  
  This game kept me occuppied for hours on end as there are plenty of missions to go through which 
 took around 40-50 hours of overall gameplay time to beat it and even then its still not 100% complete. 
 The gameplay and value on a game like this is great as it is not a game that you will finish in 
 a fea yours or even a week. This game was played pretty much everyday for an entire month and was 
 great on play value.
  
  I would suggest this game to anyone looking for a high play value Wii game as many of the other 
 games are simply too short to be worth thr price that they cost new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sausageroll_78
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  Okay the thing is wait can you guess....... Theres not a posible way that you can kill a random 
 person and the cars cost to much but still hahah.. fun as 
  hell hell
  
  
  
  
  
  Okay the thing is wait can you guess....... Theres not a posible way that you can kill a random 
 person and the cars cost to much but still hahah.. fun as 
  hell hell
  
  
  Okay the thing is wait can you guess....... Theres not a posible way that you can kill a random 
 person and the cars cost to much but still hahah.. fun as 
  hell hell
  
  Okay the thing is wait can you guess....... Theres not a posible way that you can kill a random 
 person and the cars cost to much but still hahah.. fun as 
  hell hell
  
  
  Okay the thing is wait can you guess....... Theres not a posible way that you can kill a random 
 person and the cars cost to much but still hahah.. fun as 
  hell hell
  Okay the thing is wait can you guess....... Theres not a posible way that you can kill a random 
 person and the cars cost to much but still hahah.. fun as 
  hell hell
  Okay the thing is wait can you guess....... Theres not a posible way that you can kill a random 
 person and the cars cost to much but still hahah.. fun as 
  hell hell
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alaarajab
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Becoming the longest alternate ending in the history of the film, Scarface: The World is Yours 
 starts at the end of the classic movie. As venerable Tony Montana, players break out of the drug 
 lord's mansion instead of falling face first into a puddle of blood. Losing everything, Tony starts 
 over from the bottom rung of the Miami drug scene, and it's up to the player to gain it all back.
 
  
  This creates an interesting scenario for a movie based game. Besides rewriting film history and 
 completely changing the point of the movie, Scarface has a lot riding on it to deliver as far as 
 the story is concerned. Sadly, that's the one area the game misses out on entirely.
  
  Scattered between countless drug runs, murder, escort missions and other various side missions 
 is a story struggling to keep pace with the rest of the game. By the time the next plot point arises, 
 you've forgotten the previous cinematic. Slightly upgraded character models seem to be the only 
 noticeable change from the Xbox and PlayStation 2 versions.
  
  Thankfully, the game play is engrossing enough to keep things interesting through an extensive 
 array of missions. An obligatory third person Grand Theft Auto knock-off, Scarface doesn't manipulate 
 the formula enough to feel fresh. What it does is build on that same concept, and in the end, it's 
 a better game.
  
  At the heart of Scarface is targeting, a multi-tiered system that allows for locking on and manual 
 firing. Holding down the auto targeting button allows for precise shots that can lead to a number 
 of gruesome injuries. Becoming the standard for Wii ports, the remote acts as the right analog 
 stick, aiming accurately and controlling the camera. It's a far better aiming device than it is 
 a camera controller, though disorientation caused by a sudden wrist movement is easy to recover 
 from.
  
  To give a purpose to the manual targeting, you'll increase Tony's "Balls" meter with each successful 
 kill. Yes, it means exactly what it says, and can also be filled by spewing vulgar taunts, risky 
 driving or carrying on full conversations with civilians. When filled, Tony can enter a rage mode, 
 making him a dead-on shot from a first person view and regaining life with each kill. This is a 
 solid upgrade on the Wii, as the ability to rapidly shift targets allows for higher counts before 
 the clock ticks down.
  
  The system works nicely to keep the difficulty fair. It takes a second to activate the rage, and 
 a life can be taken in that time. It's well balanced to make the player feel both powerful while 
 maintaining the challenge.
  
  Not all of Montana's work is gunplay though. The game's concept is to rebuild Tony's empire, and 
 this needs to be done the only way Montana knows how. Dealing crack is critical to earn cash and 
 respect on the streets.
  
  Money can be used to dress up the mansion (with items that can be moved anywhere in the house through 
 a clunky interface) , buy businesses to take over turf, or bribe cops and gangs to keep them off 
 your back. The more turf and fancy items you have, the higher your respect and the quicker the 
 story moves along.
  
  Knowing when you're in trouble would be helpful since dying causes you to lose all cash currently 
 on Tony. All cash must be deposited into a bank (which doubles as a save point) or you're at risk 
 to lose it.
  
  With such a focus on cash, Scarface meanders around in dull side missions that become grating in 
 later hours. Dealing drugs, laundering money, bribing cops, and intimidating gangs are all performed 
 through a weak interface that mimics classic golf games.
  
  You simply press a button and time it correctly so you've filled it to the correct spot. Nothing 
 has been done to create a new system for the hardware. It's repetitive, and it's harder to miss 
 than it is to succeed.
  
  That said, Scarface is saved by satisfying shooting mechanics and a sense of taking one of the 
 truly great film characters under your wing. Watching the empire grow, local gangs cowering in 
 fear and owning businesses is enough to carry this title to success. The World is Yours ends up 
 being nothing more than Miami, but there's plenty to do and most importantly, it's entertaining 
 even with the quirks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonyMangtana
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 10, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  You take control of Tony Montana, in his quest to reclaim the streets. The game is diverse enough, 
 you can buy nice cars, do deals, cruise the streets, chose from a large inventory of weapons. Similar 
 to GTA, you control Tony around the streets using whichever means of transport neccessary, compete 
 with rival gangs, etc. The only thing that really lets the game down is you find yourself hopelessley 
 trying to turn the camera round at times so you're facing the target as it has a tendancy of facing 
 the wrong way (the opposite way you want to face) on purpose, which means you could be getting 
 shot at, and facing the wrong way to defend yourself, all due to the damn lousy camera functions. 
 However, once semi mastered it becomes a bit more bareable I guess. Strong points are the fact 
 that it is largely based on the film, so scarface fans are in luck, plus its rewarding to reclaim 
 turf, cruise the streets doing big missions, and blasting rivals to a pulp with a machine gun whilst 
 taunting them with all Tony Montana's famous quote with the nunchuck (whilst blasting the hell 
 out of an opponent) Also contains the original soundtrack throughout the game which is a nice touch. 
 Definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMario_46
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  The Good: Good graphics  Superb licensed soundtrack  It's the perfect game if you're felling 
 bloodthirsty  Miami is wonderfully recreated
  ________________
  
  
  The Bad: Bland animations  Bad camera  Uninteresting missions - Rewrites one of the most iconic 
 scenes of the movie
  ________________
  
  
  Scarface makes it's debut on the Wii with the world is yours, a port of a 2006 Xbox and PS2 game 
 and it's the best version of the game, not that the old ones were great but the new control scheme 
 really helps this one. 
  
  Scarface is based on the 1983 movie of the same name starring Al Pacino as the iconic Tony Montana, 
 a cuban drug lord who's searching for the "American dream" and goes to Miami (where the game also 
 takes place) where he fights mobster in order to become the best. The game is a sequel to the movie.... A 
 sequel? Didn't Tony Montana die at the end? Well yes he did, but the guys at Vivendi rewrote the 
 hole final part of the movie which also happens to be one of the best action scenes ever created-. 
 This time Montana escapes the mansion attack but he losses all his money, drugs and his empire. 
 And it's up to you to get revenge and regain your empire. 
  
  The way the story goes is simply ridiculous, not only rewrites the best ending in any movie but 
 after that it doesn't really get any interesting. You'll take control of Tony shortly after the 
 memorable "Say hello to my little friend" scene and try to escape from the mansion, after that 
 you go to Little Havana and start dealing again until you get all your money back. It's very much 
 like The Godfather game, you'll have to take over business and kill as many enemies as you want. 
 But it also borrows heavily from the GTA series because it's an open world crime game. 
  
  Unlike the Godfather you don't just enter a business and punch the owner until they give it to 
 you. No, this time they will ask you to do something for them, which could be killing one of his/her 
 enemies, defending the business from attackers, or and this is one of the most stupid missions- 
 pick up some papers with your boat in the ocean, but i thought papers in water get wet, you also 
 have to defend a helicopter while it's getting sharks out of the water to make shark soup. Most 
 of the missions are stupid, uninteresting and boring.
  
  But taking over business is not the only thing to do in the game. You also have to kill all the 
 gangs- and there are many gangs, which means shooting everyone you see in front of you. The action 
 in the game is non-stop, you'll take out your enemies by using machine guns, knives, machetes and 
 even the chainsaw. When you kill an enemy using manual aiming you get ball points, which are used 
 to activate the rage or adrenaline mode (used by shaking the nunchuck) . In this mode the game will 
 momentainly transform into a first person shooter in slow motion, wich makes it easier to kill 
 your enemies; the more you kill the more life you gain. 
  
  Enemies respond to the place you shoot them, but no matter the place you'll always see a fest of 
 blood and guts flying around, it gives it a visceral felling to the game, specially using manual 
 aiming and the chainsaw. There are also plenty of car chases and crashes. In one of the best action 
 sequences ever in a game you'll have to take down a gang of thugs in the auto cinema, this part 
 is really mind blowingly fun, though a little hard. This game is obviously not for kids because 
 many of the side missions include coke dealing, to do this you have to get close to the guy and 
 press and hold the a button, after this a circular meter will appear on screen and you have to 
 hold the A button until it gets full and then let off, if you fail you wont be able to sell the 
 drug. This is also used to fast talk cops and for money laundry. It's a really neat idea and better 
 than just presing a button. 
  
  The analog stick in the nunchuck is used to move Tony, lock on with the Z button and you chake 
 it to use the adrenaline mode. To take the gun out you use left or right on the D pad and point 
 at the screen and shoot with B, and every time you kill someone the rumble in the wiimote activates, 
 as i said before it's very visceral and you actually feel like you're killing a mobster. The most 
 annoying thing of the controls is the camera, you have to move the pointer to the direction you 
 wish to rotate the camera. It's very hard to control the camera and the aiming reticle at the same 
 time so you'll get killed many times because of this. 
  
  The city of Miami is wonderfully recreated, there are many bussiness, houses, hotels and people 
 walking around so it's very lively. And you can explore it with cars and boats, there's a lot of 
 vehicle variety and the fact that they are more contemporary than those in the Godfather makes 
 it better. 
  
  Visually it looks on par with the X box version, well a little better, but just a little. That 
 doesn't mean it looks bad, there's a lot of great looking things in the game and the lighting is 
 wonderful, specially in the sunset. Though there's also a lot of bad looking things, the water 
 looks horrible. Another thing that looks pretty bad are the character animations, they're horrible, 
 though not noticeable when you're playing, you'll notice this during cutscenes and close-ups, it 
 just looks like a polygonal mess. Other than that the car models look decent and the city interiors 
 look great. 
  
  On the audio side is where Scarface shines. Not because of the voice acting though, the guy who 
 plays Tony does a decent job imitiating him, but the rest is just lame celebrity voice acting, 
 it could've been better if it wasn't for the script, which consist of pure cursing; in fact if 
 there's nobody around and you shake the nunchuck Tony will start cursing. Where the sound shines 
 is in the soundtrack because not only do they have the original Scarface soundtrack but also because 
 it includes the best variety of licensed songs ever in a videogame. It has plenty of songs from 
 various decades and styles. There's rock, pop, reggea, pop, reggeaton, rap and even country. Many 
 artist are present here, from Judas priest's "breaking the law" to Rick James' "SuperFreak" and 
 Winsin & Yandel's "Callejeros". 
  
  Scarface: The World is Yours is a fun game, only and only if you're into GTA. It also helps that 
 other than the Godfather there aren't many games like this on the wii, though if i were you i would 
 go for the Godfather because even if Scarface is pretty long and has a lot of replay value, the 
 uninspired mission design, bad camera and horrible story brings this game down. It's good but just 
 for a rental. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viictoriio
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  I just couldn't get into The Godfather, so I chose to play Scarface... and that was a great decision!
 
  
  Right from the start you'll get thrown into the game; your empire is gone and you'll need to rebuild 
 it. Easy! So I started with the first few missions and after 2 hours of play I didn't have a good 
 overview on what to do. The story and sub missions are not really seperated and apart from that 
 there's also the driver, enforcer and assasin missions. That's a heck of a lot thing todo!
  
  But after a while it'll be clear what the meaning exactly is... and hey, if you don't like 
 to drive around for fun (who doesn't?) you might as well leave this game alone.
  
  I must say I was GLAD there were some cheats. I used the health cheat on a few missions, because 
 the missions at the end do get very hard. I really don't understand how to complete them without 
 cheats, I had trouble enough completing them with health cheats now and then. :)
  
  Anyway, the story missions aren't that long, but since you'll have to perform a number of drug 
 runs the overall play time to complete the game is very satisfactory.
  
  Once completed the story you can play along for more exotics and reputation... and that's what 
 I'll do right now. (Just finished the last mission...) Great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakeplay
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 30, 2007 1:33 am PT
Review:  i just got the the game on the wii thinking it would be more interactive, well wasnt i dumb the 
 wii remote made it even more difficult, the driving control is sluggish, the layout of the controls 
 made fighting even more difficult and the graphics were terrible what the hell was sierra thinking 
 when they released the game for wii, actually i think the only good thing about this game is that 
 it's got a 30 day return policy which is no use as i threw away my stupid receipt - how annoying... 
 dont get it or your wasting your money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whtddusy517
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 14, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Now I haven't played this game for to long, but I have loved what I have played. I'll start off 
 with how well the voice acting is in this game. It really feels like your watching a movie. Also, 
 the character animations (mainly of Tony, kind of on other characters) is phenomenal. The character 
 model of Tony is really well done, but other characters not so much (especially the guy in the 
 tutorial, it seems like they kind of just tacked him on in there) . Actually, the whole tutorial 
 felt weird and out of place, but whatever.
  
  Ok, graphics, for the Wii are ok. It looks more like a PS2 game but even GTA3 didn't have this 
 many jagged edges. Not sure whats up with that but whatever, the game has its ups and downs (in 
 the sunlight the game looks amazing) .
  
  The control works flawlessly for me. I have it set to expert mode so it is more like a mouse rather 
 than a wii mote. I don't really like the lock on mode, usually I just got for manual aiming since 
 its pretty easy to do anyways (farther away enemy's might be a little harder to pinpoint head shots) .
 
  
  Oh, and definitely not for youngsters. My parents are already questioning taking away from me because 
 of the language (plentiful) , but hey its scarface haha. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exyr_basic
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 14, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  I remember when I started to play the game... The intro stage was not all that fun. But when the 
 free roaming came into play I was almost sold immediately. Being able to dance in the Babylon club, 
 buying cars so your driver can deliver the car you want right in front of you at any time and even 
 being able to buy weapons through a phone call through your very high tech satellite phone, the 
 guns and ammo are all delivered to trunk of your cars being able to access them at any time. It's 
 the little things that makes this game great... The controls you might wonder, how are they? All 
 I can say is that Mr. Jeff who reviewed the game is totally wrong! They are great, the only thing 
 that can be frustrating is when you want to enter rage mode, but when you get the hang of it it 
 isn't much of an issue.
  
  Lastly the soundtrack, it's awesome! Being able to chose from about 5 different genres aswell as 
 the Scarface movie O. S. T (Original SoundTrack) with about 30-50 songs total (not sure, haven't 
 counted them :) ) there is something for everyone here. The best thing about the music is that 
 you can make your own playlists from all the genres and only listen to the songs you want to AND 
 being able to listen to them while running about NOT being in your car. I hated that in the GTA 
 games...
  
  The only thing that isn't so great about this game is the graphics, If that is important for you 
 then you'll be disappointed, if it's not important and you like free roaming games, this is a must! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 15, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Well well well another day another GTA clone, but this time it's backed by one of the greatest 
 gangster icons in the history of film, Scarface. If you haven't played a GTA style game before 
 then this will be new to you. If you haven't heard a game swear then this will be really new to 
 you. But it's not just about blood, guts, cursing, and attempting to get with women, Scarface adds 
 a What if? chapter to the end of the movie from teh 80s. Basically the creators of the Scarface 
 game threw out the ending of the movie and re-wrote it so they could make a sequel of sorts. It 
 probably would have worked better if they had just followed the movie, but Scarface fans probably 
 would have had a cow. Basically Tony doesn't die at the end of Scarface and after you escape your 
 house you have to start a new with the gangsters around town to get back on the top of things. 
 First off the graphics are right on par with the prior GTA installments as well as their clones 
 of the previous generation. One thing that sticks out is that the creators have a recognizable 
 character to draw from. Now the graphics may not be the most detailed at times, and don't stand 
 up against other current gen consoles or the best that the Wii has to offer but it's not terrible. 
 They get Tony's mannerisms down very well and the face animations of the other leading characters 
 are good. The voice acting is great. The guy the they got to play Tony sounds a lot like Al Pacino, 
 also they dialog is plucked right from the movie. The game takes place in the 80s just like the 
 movie did. So you get a pretty good collection of 80 music that you can listen to as well as some 
 80's rides. The level design is pretty solid, while I don't know what Miami is set up like, you 
 feel like you are running around a large city. The controls are solid and easy to pick up and play. 
 They are simplified by the Wiimote as you can point and shoot with it. You can also make comments 
 to your victims which will raise your rage meter. Once full you will become invisible (much like 
 the movie) and kick some buttocks. Further more with the target system you can attack limbs, toros, 
 and heada. That can cause for some bloody deaths. All in all I had some fun with this game. It 
 may not have much more then one or two play throughs worth it but it's something to keep hardcore 
 Wii gamers occupied for a while before the big games come out later this year. If you're a fan 
 of the movies or looking for something new and contriversial then go for Scarface. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NachoMontana86
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 12, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  To be honest, I really enjoyed playing Scarface on the PS2. I felt that it was a solid GTA clone. 
 So when I found out that there was a Wii version coming, I was all up for it. Now that I have played 
 it, I can say that it has everything that I loved about the PS2 version. I just wish there was 
 more to make the Wii version more unique.
  
  What I mean is that I wished the developers would take more time into maybe adding a few new missions 
 so that the game wouldn't feel repetitive at times. Unfortunately, that is the case, as you might 
 have to do a bunch of side missions that seem too generic, just so you can advance to the main 
 story missions. Still, with all that, the ability to use the Wii-mote to aim and shoot makes Scarface 
 more enjoyable to play.
  
  Sound is what really stood out in my opinion. The soundtrack is great, and so was the voice acting. 
 So if you already played the previous versions, Scarface on the Wii is worth a second look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doominatorx6
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 9, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, I wasn't a big fan of scarface on the ps2. I enjoyed it, but felt it failed in comparison 
 to San Andreas (but topping that is nearly impossible) , but on the wii does it get a second chance? 
 I hope so.
  
  Graphics - 6/10
  Tony himself looks good, everything else is ass. Characters hands are chunky, draw distances are 
 decent, but nowhere as good as a gta game, and the facial models make children cry, Decent for 
 a ps2 game, but poor on a wii game.
  
  Sound - 8/10
  Major props to this game for one thing: a swear button. You flick the nunchuck, and you start yelling 
 f-words at civilians, he'll sometimes he yells at the air, funny stuff. The music is decent, and 
 the voice overs are alright too. But the swear button is really where the sound category gets it 
 points. Gameplay - 7/10
  This really is the first GTAish game on the wii so far (feels more gtaish than godfather, i mean) 
 You run around shooting people, getting balls for shooting them in specific regions (im not making 
 that up) but you cant shoot innocent bystanders, yet you can beat the snot out of them, using the 
 wii remote of course. Wii controls are finicky, but very learn-able. Just very fun overall.
  
  Tilt - 8/10
  I don't mind gta style games, but most of them are rushed out crap (driv3r, 
 for example) With the exception of total overdose on the ps2, this is my favorite non-gta sandbox 
 game.
  
  Overall: I was very impressed with this game. I came in expecting garbage, but came out with pleasant 
 thoughts. The controls could've been better and the graphics are fairly ugly, but the solid gameplay 
 and constant uses of the word f**k make this one easy for me to recommend. I was actually amazed 
 ninty didn't censor this one at all, but whatever, you want this game I know. Do yourself a favor 
 and get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sycosi
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  Having been SERIOUSLY underwhelmed by the original clutch of Wii games, and then getting rid of 
 my Wii altogether, I find myself buying the Wii again and picking up Scarface and RE 4. Now being 
 a big fan of the original movie I did fear that the converstion to the Wii would be as bad as many 
 a movie to console convert. However I was greatly relieved in more than one way.
  
  The limitations of the Wii will always be the graphics, and this is to be expected and accepted. 
 having said this the graphics in Scarface are more than adequte for the job in hand. The engaging 
 gameplay, story and entertainment to be had here is more than enough to keep you hooked. The voice 
 acting is absolutely 1st class, with the actor who's does Tony Montana doing a simply brilliant 
 job. There's also much humour to be had being Mr Montana with all his taunts and dialogue. I mean, 
 how can you get bored of saying Die you cock'a'roches! and other more 'rude' phrases that pop up. 
 Its very easy to get immersed in the game itself and expands on the rather dull, GTA, free roam 
 game.
  
  It is a brilliantly violent, well thought out and put together game, well presented, structured 
 and enjoyable mob blaster. With achievable missions and gaming that really do the Wii, and its 
 control system, justice. My favourite game on the Wii at the mo! Excellent!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdechert
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 7, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  Scarface is, overall, a pretty fun game. After the review GS gave it, I expected it to suck. It 
 doesn't. Who cares if it rewrites the movie ending - at least it's not rehashing the movie itself, 
 which is what makes so many movie/game tie-ins so crappy. The controls are a little hard to get 
 used to, but after an hour or so, I was doing great on the most sensitive level. The controls are 
 a lot easier to master than Red Steel or Call of Duty. Once you get the scheme down, it becomes 
 second nature. The gameplay is fun and, though a little repetitive, usually varied enough to keep 
 things interesting. Driving boats, cars, delivery trucks, armored cars, etc. on different missions 
 is great. The ability to load up out of the trunk of your car is great, too. And who can knock 
 the street level coke selling - whenever you see a white dot, make some sweet cash selling the 
 white stuff. For me, it's a tossup between this and Godfather. Both are fun, and Godfather may 
 have Scarface beat only because of the variety of hand-to-hand moves. Though the chainsaw is fun 
 in Scarface, it gets old and is almost useless against guns if you can't go into blind rage mode.
 
  
  Fun game. Way better than GS gives it credit for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_offical_jim
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 3, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  First lets get this out of the way... do the controls work? Well they do mostly. You just point 
 you remote at the sreen and you can turn your camera and aim. It has different types of camera 
 sensitivaty and it's pretty good. The missions are somewhat fun and it's kind of fun to 'build 
 you empire'. The graphics are last gen but you shouldn't be expecting anything better. I like the 
 sound in this game and the voice actor did a good job. On the other hand the car control is bad 
 but in time you will get used to it. If you really need your GTA fix give it a rent and you might 
 like this game. Just keep your fingers crossed for Rockstar to announce a Wii GTA game. First they 
 have to work out getting Manhunt 2 on the Wii with the AO rating and all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheik_n_Zelda
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 10:31 pm PT
Review:  http://www. projectcoe. com/nintendo/games/scarface_wii. html? var1=sc3
  
  One of the most common beliefs in gaming is that new releases which coincide with a current or 
 past movie are worth even less than the price of the theatrical viewing pleasure. 99% of the time, 
 that holds true when yet another quick movie-to-game cash-in is farted onto store shelves. Nowadays 
 it is a publisher's wet dream to score on a popular flick's entertaining plot by regurgitating 
 it [albeit poorly] into a virtual recreation featuring some run-of-the-mill platforming elements, 
 beat 'em up stages or lame collect-o-fests. Scarface: The World Is Yours takes a unique approach 
 in this manner by allowing players to follow a script which rewrites the ultimate demise of Tony 
 f'ing Montana at the end of his movie. Is that bad? Well, to fans of the controversial 1983 film, 
 perhaps, but to those of us Wii owners that have been waiting for a game of this nature, it's a 
 step in the right direction. Scarface just happens to be a true testament to future third-person 
 Wii shooters.
  
  Mr. Montana is such a joy to command due to mechanics that make sense and feel natural. The nunchuk's 
 stick is responsible for all his bipedal movement, and the unit's motion sensitivity allows you 
 to taunt enemies and enter Blind Rage mode, which I'll elaborate upon shortly. The remote is responsible 
 for everything else, including camera control, using your equipped weapon and accessing your virtual 
 armory/city map, etc. This interface is essentially what drives the third-person shooter engine 
 that appropriately features four sensitivity settings of camera manipulation, which proves ideal 
 for players of differing levels of comfort. Now about that Blind Rage, which represents its namesake 
 well. With timely taunting and inflictions of bodily harm upon your foes, whether with your fists 
 or guns, you fill up your 'Balls' meter. Once full. giving the nunchuk a good shaking [acting as 
 if you're really pissed off] has you shift into a pleasantly surprising first-person view. I hope 
 FPS developers pay attention here, as Scarface could prove a helpful foundation for the 'point 
 and shoot' setup of upcoming releases. Anyway, when you initiate Blind Rage, all enemies are instantly 
 pointed as they come into view, and one pull of the trigger takes them down. You also recover health 
 with your kills, which is a godsend during potentially overwhelming missions. It can be frustrating 
 though, especially in latter tasks of the game, to lose your Balls meter when killed, and have 
 nothing when you restart and face the same nasty mobs.
  
  Being behind the wheel also comes across as very intuitive. Just as it's simple to control Tony 
 himself, it's pretty much the same for the game's 30+ vehicles. The analog stick takes care of 
 steering, C is your brakes/reverse, and A is acceleration. Fairly straightforward no? To make things 
 even sweeter, firing your weapon while cruising around is more effortless than you may initially 
 come to grasp. You draw out your gun of choice with the D-Pad, and instantly have full IR control 
 of the reticule with the remote. While maintaining control of your ride, drilling annoying adversaries 
 comes easy as you point and fire with B.
  
  With the control interface out of the way, just what is it about the game that has you doing all 
 this? Simply put, a man known only as 'Sosa' ordered an ambush on your mansion for one obvious 
 purpose. However, the plot's rewriting has you actually escape. Tony is then left on the streets 
 with no cash, no home and a city-wide belief that you're a goner. With that not being the case 
 though, the game's subtitle explains your goal very well: restore your reputation, retake command 
 over your previously lost Miami empire, and along the way, eliminate targets of interest from your 
 past. This involves a number of tasks, including the accruing and selling of coke (not the soft 
 drink) , the taming of local gangs, and the purchasing of the area's lucrative narcotic fronts. 
 Essentially, you do jobs that net you valuable cash and drugs that can be distributed through your 
 newly acquired businesses. When obtaining drugs, you help Tony along by waiting for an empty circle 
 prompt to appear on screen. At this point you must hold the A button to fill it up, but stop before 
 going past the meter's origin. It can be easy to slip if you're not careful, which results in unpleasant 
 consequences, but usually it's not difficult. You do the same when attempting to intimidate gang 
 members or fast-talk a cop to lower your overall Heat with either faction. It can be particularly 
 irritating with the police though, as the higher your Heat is with them, the harder they are to 
 lose. They can eventually become inescapable, which screws you over in missions or gang-related 
 gunfights. In addition, all money you accumulate from missions or selling coke is considered 'Dirty 
 Money'. If you die before you deposit it in a bank, wave bye-bye to it. Therefore, in order to 
 convert said cash to 'Clean Money', you must help Tony launder it, which also requires holding 
 A to fill one of those on screen prompts. Depending on the result, the bank will profit anywhere 
 from 5% to over 25% of your investment. Obviously, the less the better for you, as your clean cash 
 is what's used to purchase upgrades and other desirable goods. This can include your henchmen, 
 cars, boats, items for your mansion and so on and so forth. Much of this merchandise turns out 
 to be expensive, so you'll need a ton of money to buy it all during or after the story completion, 
 which does add some replay value. The main mission itself runs in the neighborhood of 30 hours, 
 so you should be plenty occupied with the game's many offerings.
  
  Moving on, Scarface also comes with quality sound production. The voice work is well-done and the 
 game's diverse soundtrack, complete with the movie's song lineup, livens the world's atmosphere 
 quite nicely. Although, if there's any ONE aspect that should keep Scarface out of the hands of 
 minors, it's the voiced dialogue. If you think that the characters of South Park are potty mouths, 
 Tony Montana may very well make those fourth graders look like saints. While I can't recall all 
 the words off-hand, it probably isn't inaccurate to surmise that our Cuban anti-hero relays just 
 about every naughty word in the book. Not necessarily sexually-oriented, but profane. But hey, 
 Montana lost everything at the start of the game, so if I were him, I'd be pretty pissed too. Although 
 in the case of Mr. Say Hello To My Little Friend, it will as might as well be considered 80% of 
 his vocabulary. It does come off as juvenile occasionally and at times completely immature, but 
 it at least pays tribute to Tony's movie counterpart and helps maintain the game's intended emotion. 
 Finishing this off, the audio effects compliment just about everything, whether it's the car and 
 boat engines, gun blasts or sounds of general chaos.
  
  Finally, we have what also makes Scarface a more quality title over what many Wii owners compare 
 it to, The Godfather, and that's the graphics. Even though the very sizeable and open city of Miami 
 is constantly streamed from the game disc, the frame rate rarely if ever has any hiccups and actually 
 looks pretty darn good. The buildings are generally unique and fairly detailed, and the lighting 
 helps give the always summer city a nice feeling of realism. It's not the most beautiful game ever, 
 but it's definitely one of the best looking Wii titles thus far, which is a real blessing to most 
 of us. In addition, the cars, weapons and boats help keep the game's action feeling fresh with 
 their plausible array of options. Lastly, the characters don't show a whole lot of emotion expression-wise, 
 but they at least look decent and animate well, even if the bodily textures appear muddy. I just 
 didn't know humans had webbed hands.
  
  As I bring this to a close, let's get one thing straight. Wii needs its third parties my fellow 
 gamers, and there is a nice handful of titles out there worthy of your investment. You MUST remember 
 that money is generally the only thing that talks in this industry, as is with any other business. 
 Nintendo fans have whined and moaned about the lack of outside support since the days of N64, but 
 you have to realize that it's not just up to the corporate big whigs to pull strings behind the 
 scenes. If there's no reliable market, there's no game to be purchased. If you enjoy third-person 
 shooters or sandbox games as a whole, I strongly urge you to check out Scarface: The World Is Yours 
 in some fashion. It may be a year-old port, but it's wonderful that it never really FEELS like 
 one, as the Wii control actually upgrades what may have been a previously iffy experience. I've 
 had a blast with the game, and I'm certain thousands more of you could as well. Remember, it's 
 Tony f'ing Montana! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vinnie222
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 6, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: 4 diffrent speeds of camera control, Shooting is fun, Great voice acting and music, good 
 story once you get passed the whole tony does not die thing
  
  Bad: Its a port from the PS2 and boy does it show, The story changes the a huge part of the movie 
 that would make any Scarface fanboy cringe. Its not Al's voice. First off let me say if you loved 
 the movie and hoped for a prequel or even beable to play throught the movie events you are going 
 to be dissapointed the only thing this game has to do with the movie is the chartares themselves. 
 If you can get over the fact that this game rewrites the movie then you are in for a treat. The 
 game is set after a falied raid on Tony's mansion, and Tony has to rebuild his coca empire. There 
 are verious ways to do this. You can sell coke, kill gang members, or of corse do the main story 
 line. Speaking of wich the story line while does rewrite what is arguably the best non Itlian Mafia 
 movie of all times is good, not to mention while the V actor is not Al he is realy good. Not only 
 is the sound and story good but the game play is nice. The core game play has not changed from 
 last years xbox and PS2 games but the real gimic is the gesture based controls. You use the wii 
 mote like a mouse to shoot and control the camera. The use of the wii mote is some of the best 
 Ive seen. I particulary like the use of the horn which is swinging the nunchuck up which i use 
 in unison with the one finger salute which works nicely. But not all the gesture based controls 
 work that well. The most noticable is the Taunt/Blind rage gestures. Both gestures are very very 
 close but have very diffrent effects. One you throw your hands up and utter one or more profanities 
 while leaving you defenceless while the other makes you a killing mad man who regains health by 
 killing and takes no damage. Iam sure you can see where this is a problem If you are low on health 
 you are going to try to go into blind rage to get more health and kill many people you shake the 
 nunchuck only to throw your guns up and you find your last words Come and get some you Cockaroaches 
 . The other draw back in this game is the profanity is way way way over the top. You might say 
 but Vince its Scarface. but comon' is it really nessisary to say F*** S*** @$$ ( that is an exact 
 quote of a taunt) . Now I am a highschool student so I have heard/said my share of profanity but 
 hearing some of this stuff even with my parents outside makes me uncomforatble. Sure this game 
 is not great and some say its GTA Vice city but at the end of the day its a good boarderline great 
 Gta clone for the Nintendo WII 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chadni
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 21, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Due to the Gamespot review for the original version, I avoided playing Scarface on the Xbox until 
 I found it in a bargain bin and gave it a whirl. I had noticed that the game was consistently popular 
 at GameFly and wondered why a game so bad would consistently stay so popular. Reason? It's actually 
 a lot of fun to play. I was extremely disappointed to see the Wii reviewer spend the first page 
 again whining about the plot not fitting the original movie. All you original gangsters out there 
 can skip this one. The rest of us can have a good time racking up (no pun intended) high Balls 
 scores when we drop our enemies while running around Miami for the betterment of our illicit empire. 
 This game is not nearly as refined as GTA but surely doesn't deserve such bad press. I have begun 
 to second-guess more reviews here particularly when I feel the choice reviewer's childhood dreams 
 are being trampled on by a basic premise of the title. Get over it. Continuity between movies and 
 their game tie-ins has never been a major priority of the developers. Is it a lot of fun to swagger 
 around Miami as a foul-mouthed Tony Montana? You betcha. Anybody who has played the Wii knows that 
 some of the control mechanisms can be tricky. Mastering the SSX: Blur uber motions took some time. 
 But it was doable. So are these. Flip of the wrist to honk a horn? I can handle it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kungphooey
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 1, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  This game seemed fun when I tried it on ps2, but on wii its just boring. The gameplay takes a hard 
 hit. The whole point and shoot thing is ok, but the driving around stinks. Selling coke and buying 
 cars is kind of fun, but godfather and grand theft auto leave this in the dust. The graphics are 
 kind of bad. You can see little black lines around the characters faces and everything looks pretty 
 dull. The cars look horrible too, especally the regular steet ones. The voice acting is okay, but 
 the music isnt my taste. This game doesn't last very long, and once your done, you can drive around 
 your fast cars and shoot things, but that sums up the entire game. So bottom line, this game is 
 just below par. One of those games that shouldn't have been re-relased. O well.
  
  Still at times this game is very enjoyable, like then you go into rage mode. Or when your selling 
 cocaine, but there arn't enough good moments to forgive all the tough ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sZZZlepy_101
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 18, 2007 5:00 am PT
Review:  Pros 1. camera movement responds smoothly to the wii mote's motion (unlike SCDA)
  
  2. Gun battles feels more cooler using the wii mote 3. chainsaw mode feels better with the more 
 realistic interaction to it using the wiimote.
  
  4. still keeping up the great voice acting (putting the F's back in action)
  
  5. story line 
 still can please scarface fans 6. controls can be easily learned Cons 1. obviously the wii isnt 
 a Graphics wise console so the game looks rather ported. eg. clearly noticible jagged lines, muddy 
 textures, washed out character details etc. 2. lots of repetetive missions 3. still cant kill civilians! 
 4. enemies can get very tough 5. using the nunchuk to drive vehicles is quite a shame cause they 
 should have used the wiimote tiliting motion instead!
  
  Bottom line even if its not much of an ideal game this is the only GTA like title so Wii players 
 might want to check this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto703
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  First just let me say you will have a lot of fun is this game. As soon as you get told what the 
 controls are I doubt you will have any problems once you get famliar with them. The game is really 
 immersive and the gameplay helps with the experience. The game has music from the game not to mention 
 cheesy 80's music. Seriously who does not like cheesy music?
  You will get a lot of bang for your buck if you don't rush. It took me around 25 hours to beat 
 it while just trying to to rush. At points in the game it can get repetitive but not for long usually. 
 Overall I had quite a good time with this game. I reccomend you atleast give it a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: triongamefreak
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 15, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is the surprise in this game, once you play through the tutorial, you will instantly 
 get the control scheme. In some aspects, i prefer the Wii's control scheme to that of a run-of-the-mill 
 controller. It makes driving more interesting, and with the ability to designate your own level 
 of sensitivity for the controls, it completely blew my mind. Aside from a few occasional mishaps 
 with the camera, this game is solid. The part of the game that you might not expect to blow your 
 mind is the graphics. The Wii version of this game is something short of spectacular. The stream 
 isnt very crisp, and not very clear either. It looks somewhat poorer than the Ps2 version. But 
 its not horrible to look at. At this point, im just glad to have a sandbox style game on the Wii. 
 The sound is a very solid aspect of the game, with tunes from the original movie, as well as new 
 hip-hop and other genres. Its will be a satisfying experience for anyone unless you have a particularly 
 odd taste in music. This game has a good bit of content. It will take around 20 hours to play through 
 this game. Although it doesnt go astray from the main storyline and has no side missions, it still 
 has a great bit of fun to be had.
  
  All in all, Scarface: The World Is Yours for the Wii has been what i think of as an improvement 
 from the previous versions of the game, aside from the graphics. If you want a solid GTA Sandbox 
 style game for your Wii, this is a game for you... actually it's the game for you..... simply because 
 its the only game of its type currently availible for the Wii. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
