-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sega Bass Fishing
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/segabassfishing/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fish behave realistically.
 The Wii Remote and Nunchuk work well as a rod and reel.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Has about as much depth as the average arcade game.
 Graphics look old and plain; the water effects are pitiful.
 No multiplayer or online support.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 15, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.2, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 6.1, 73 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Cavia Inc.
Genre: Fishing
Date: Feb 26, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This shallow fishing sim offers nostalgic fun for a moment, but its dated look and lack of new features 
 make it a hard sell. 

  In the late 1990s, US arcades were exploding with wacky arcade games in an attempt to draw back 
 the crowds of years past. Sega Bass Fishing, with its big screen and clunky fishing controller, 
 was right at home next to the skateboarding simulations and safari driving games. Like the Dreamcast 
 port before it, the new Wii version brings all the flashy silliness of the old arcade to your living 
 room. Sadly, despite a small sprinkling of extras, the core game remains largely untouched. If 
 you played the arcade version or the Dreamcast port, then you've already played this game.  

           There area a couple of new maps and one new mode, but this is the same "Dam Area" seen 
 in previous versions.      

  Sega Bass Fishing offers four modes for you to get your fish on: Practice, Arcade, Tournament, 
 and Nature Trip. Practice mode is a good place to start to familiarize yourself with the fishing 
 controls. Arcade mode is exactly what it sounds like: a perfect re-creation of the old arcade game, 
 minus the quarters. Tournament mode has you fishing in 10 different spots in a ranked competition 
 to score the most fish. Finally, the new Nature Trip mode lets you fish without strict time limits 
 and cheesy Sega rock music.  

  Like the old arcade game, you will have seen everything Sega Bass Fishing has to offer within the 
 first five minutes. Fishing through the tournament will net you new lures and a few trophies if 
 you perform well, but other than that, there isn't much to find here. This shallow feel could have 
 been avoided had there been more customization or options. You can pick where you cast but not 
 how far out, and casting side arm or overhand is done at random. Other than the lures and map settings, 
 there isn't much you can do to drastically change the experience. Both Arcade and Tournament modes 
 make you fish against the clock, which can get frustrating quickly because just like real bass, 
 sometimes they bite and sometimes they don't. There are no multiplayer modes or online features 
 to hold your attention after the single-player is over.  

  Sega Bass Fishing might not be much deeper than the fishing minigames offered elsewhere on the 
 Wii, but at least it controls well. Casting is done with a flick of the Wii Remote, though as previously 
 mentioned, how you flick doesn't really matter. Your control over the rod doesn't start until the 
 lure hits the water. Once there, you can flick and shake the rod to dance the lure around in the 
 water. You can reel in your line using the buttons on the Wii Remote or by winding the Nunchuk, 
 which is the better choice because it offers more levels of sensitivity. Hitting the right spot 
 with the right lure can mean the difference between landing a 12-pound bass or a guppy. You'll 
 want to select your lure according to the temperature, time of day, and weather. The default lures 
 available at the beginning work OK, but you'll catch more fish if you can unlock the fancier models 
 through the Tournament mode. Each lure functions a bit differently; some require a steady reel, 
 while others need to be yanked around to attract fish. Though selecting the right lure helps, many 
 times, success is left up to chance.  

  Once a fish bites, and you've yanked the Wii Remote upward to set the hook, the battle begins. 
 While the smaller fish are easy to pull in, hooking a big bass can result in an epic struggle. 
 Just as it did in the arcade, a goofy-sounding voice will shout out commands when you've got too 
 much tension in your line or when you need to tilt your rod. The Nunchuk replicates the old fishing 
 controller well, letting you crank it when you first get the catch and slowly reel it in when the 
 tension is tight. The inaccurate line-tension gauge and the lack of feedback to tell you if you're 
 tilting your rod enough hamper the fun of snagging a big one. These annoyances result in a few 
 broken lines or loosened hooks, but they don't happen so often that they completely ruin the experience. 

  It's been 10 years since the original Sega Bass Fishing debuted in arcades, and the graphics look 
 like it. Sure, they've been smoothed out a little and most of the textures look a bit cleaner, 
 but the Wii can do much better. The completely generic fisherman looks like he wondered out of 
 Time Crisis, and the water effects are shameful for a game with so much water. Even the menus and 
 heads-up display are identical to the old version. At least, the fish animate and behave realistically. 

           The constant alerts and warnings that pop up when reeling in a fish give the game a frantic 
 feel.      

  The sound is classic Sega. Your fisherman enthusiastically spits out "Bite it!" every few seconds 
 while Sonic The Hedgehog-style elevator rock bumps in the background. Hooking a fish brings up 
 the tension gauge, which is accompanied by an assortment of warning alerts and bleeps. It definitely 
 bumps the excitement level of the sport up a few notches. The Nature Tour mode ditches the music 
 for ambient sounds but keeps the nerdy fisherman's voice.  

  Sega Bass Fishing won't keep you entertained long. As a stand-alone game, it doesn't offer much 
 more than the handful of fishing budget games or minigames found in the dozens of Wii minigame 
 collections. You might find some quick nostalgic thrills with Sega Bass Fishing, but this is one 
 catch you can throw back.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: N1nt3nd0gam3r
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 17, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  I was at the store and I hadn't gotten a new game for my Wii in a long time I was like well I like 
 fishing so I will get this one. Well I got it and I guess I misunderstood I was reading the box 
 on the way home and it said "Catch over 4 types of Bass!!!" I was uhhhhh that is crappy. Anyway 
 I got home put it in and was like well this is not very good. There is a reason it got a 5 star 
 rating out of 10 stars. Not a very good game that's why!! The details and graphics are terrible. 
 You find yourself doing the same thing time after time after time. All the gameplay is basically 
 the same. There is not a lot of detail in the fish and the controls were poorly thought out. The 
 levels are all o. k. and that's about it I haven't played it since two days after I got it and that 
 was like a week and a half ago. I would not suggest buying this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mack2D2
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 23, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Before you go and play this game you need to know that it is retardedly simple. You can't cruise 
 around a lake and pick a cove with your boat, you choose from a pre-designated selection of coves... 
 such as "brook", "country", "marsh", etc. Each minute in real life is one hour in the game, and 
 for most aspects you will play 4 minutes (hours) at a time. You get to slide left and ride with 
 your boat and your cast is always as far as possible, no short casts in this game.
  
  With that said, this game is fun. I bought it with faulty memory, I must have combined a few old 
 fishing games into one because I remembered being able to cruise a lake and pick a spot to fish 
 in the Dreamcast version of this game... because of that incorrect recollection, when I first played 
 this game I was very upset. I wasn't prepared for it's shallowness... but now that I've given it 
 time and played with some friends, and let friends borrow it to try and break my records, I've 
 discovered the fun of this title. It is plain and simply, an arcade game.
  
  This is a game for those of us who used to go the arcade and try to get our names on the credits 
 so high up that no one could ever de-throne us. Buy this game, catch yourself a 20+ pound bass 
 and watch all your friends fail try after try to top you... that's the fun of a title like this. 
 If you don't have a few friends to play your wii with, don't get this game because the lasting 
 appeal will be incredibly small. Also, while the game is often listed as needing a nunchuck to 
 play, it isn't necessary... you can reel with buttons A and B, and some of my friends actually 
 find this much easier and more fun.
  
  For those fishing game fans who want a challenge, there is a "Nature mode" where time passes as 
 it does in real life... no minute = hour thing, when an hour passes in RL then an hour passes in 
 the game too. Fish aren't as hungry and don't approach your lure as aggressively, and you'll have 
 to work your lure correctly to catch anything... and the different breeds of bass actually fight 
 in a manner similar to real life also. For an added difficulty bonus, try fishing in the rain at 
 night on nature mode. While this adds a little to the lasting appeal for the people who like to 
 fish alone, without friends to set records against, I still wouldn't suggest this game to anyone 
 looking for a heavy single player experience.
  
  Personally, I pop this game into the Wii when I have a few minutes to kill... waiting for my girl 
 to dry her hair before going to a movie, or whatever... it's a great game for a quicky... and sometimes, 
 trying to drag in that huge bass makes me want to flake on the movie and keep fishing!
  
  This game gets bonus points in my review for having a sealed and new sale price of 30 bucks... 
 charging anything more would have lost it points, it's too simple a game to justify 50. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
