-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sega Superstars Tennis
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/segasuperstarstennis/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Characters, courts, and music based on classic Sega games.
 Many minigames combine tennis with the gameplay of another game.
 More than 100 different challenges.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Actual tennis is pretty average.
 Some levels use their source material much better than others.
 Many of the characters are D-listers.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 24, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.2, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 356 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Sumo Digital
Genre: Tennis
Date: Mar 18, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The tennis is merely average, but the challenges and minigames in Sega Superstars Tennis are creatively 
 done and a lot of fun. 

  After Sonic's recent lackluster performance in Mario &amp; Sonic at the Olympic Games, you'd be 
 forgiven for having low expectations for Sega's next sports game to feature mascots: Sega Superstars 
 Tennis. Although the characters aren't all A-listers and the actual tennis isn't particularly great, 
 the game's actually pretty good thanks to interesting court design, loads of classic music, and 
 the fun minigames found in superstars mode.  

  Sega Superstars Tennis features 16 characters from classic Sega games. Each player is rated for 
 speed, control, power, spin, or all-around ability. The eight characters that are unlocked from 
 the start include: Sonic, AiAi from Super Monkey Ball, Nights, Ulala from Space Channel Five, Beat 
 from Jet Set Radio, Amigo from Samba de Amigo, Tails, and Dr. Eggman. The unlockable characters 
 aren't quite as interesting and mostly consist of lesser characters from the same games, though 
 Gillius from Golden Axe and Alex Kidd are worthy additions to the lineup. The courts on which you 
 play and the music you hear while you play are inspired by the game's characters and are sure to 
 please anyone who has enjoyed Sega's games over the years.  

           Admit it, you've always wondered who would win this epic showdown.      

  The characters, 
 levels, music, and even some of the gameplay from these classic franchises are put to good use 
 in superstars mode. This mode is made up of 14 different worlds, each of which is based on a well-known 
 Sega game. The roster includes Super Monkey Ball, Puyo Pop Fever, Samba De Amigo, OutRun, Virtua 
 Squad, Sonic the Hedgehog, Nights, Space Channel Five, ChuChu Rocket, Jet Set Radio, and more. 
 Each is filled with challenges that range from winning single and doubles matches to minigames 
 that mix tennis with gameplay from the franchise on which the area is based.  

  Many of these challenges are really fun, and some of them are especially creative. In the Virtua 
 Squad minigames, you shoot (aim the ball at) the bad-guy targets that pop up while trying to avoid 
 hitting the civilians, just as you would in Virtua Cop. In Puyo Pop Fever, you're essentially playing 
 the actual puzzle game and clearing the Puyo with tennis balls. ChuChu Rocket is also a lot of 
 fun. Just as you did in the Dreamcast game, you have to lead the mice to their rockets by changing 
 the direction of the arrows on the level and avoiding cats -- only this time you change the arrows 
 by hitting them with tennis balls. It's amazing how well some of these games mesh with tennis, 
 and the ones that are done well are really a lot of fun. The only knock against these stages is 
 that the game doesn't do much in the way of explaining the gameplay, so if you've never played 
 ChuChu Rocket before, you're going to be clueless as to how to proceed here.  

  All of the levels in superstars mode are not created equal. The Jet Set Radio stage has the look 
 of the game, but the tagging minigames are frustrating and uninteresting. Running around the court 
 while collecting rings in Sonic's stage isn't too exciting, either. The superstars mode feels unfinished 
 in places because some of the levels have very little or nothing to do with the game on which they 
 are based. OutRun's court has the look of OutRun, but there are no challenges based on the game. 
 The same goes for Samba De Amigo and Space Channel Five, although some of the excellent music from 
 those games is featured. Golden Axe is particularly noteworthy because, aside from not having any 
 challenges based on the game, the level in which it takes place isn't even based on Golden Axe; 
 it's Curien Mansion from House of the Dead, complete with zombies. But even with these issues, 
 superstars mode is an entertaining and enjoyable way to play tennis.  

  It's a good thing that superstars mode is so much fun, given that the actual tennis in Sega Superstars 
 Tennis is merely average. The simple controls mean that it's easy to pick up and play, but you'll 
 have mastered the gameplay in a matter of minutes. There are a few different control schemes on 
 the Wii and they work fine, though the motion controls don't add much to the experience. In all 
 versions the controls are tight, but there are times when you'll hit the button to swing and your 
 character won't respond. This seems to be the game's way of punishing you for getting to the ball 
 late. This is kind of cheap, but if it didn't happen you'd rarely lose a point because it's so 
 difficult to hit a winning shot that you're almost always in position to return the ball. Lobs, 
 drop shots, and net play are ineffective, which means that you'll spend your time hitting from 
 the baseline, trying to run your opponent back and forth from left to right until he or she can't 
 get to a shot. Each character has a superstar ability that can be activated once the star below 
 the character begins to flash, but these abilities aren't much help and serve only to interrupt 
 play. There is a distinct difference between the different play styles of the characters, which 
 makes for some variety in how you attack each opponent, but don't expect too much challenge from 
 the artificial intelligence. It's generally fairly easy.  

  Sega Superstars Tennis gameplay is fun, but it's so simple that you probably won't want to play 
 online, given that the points can go on forever. However, if you do go online on the PlayStation 
 3 and Xbox 360 (there's no online mode in the PlayStation 2 or Wii versions) then you'll be pleased 
 to know that the game features a surprisingly robust online mode that runs well and is lag-free. 
 You can play a quick match, a ranked match, and even enter a tournament. Additionally, you can 
 use the TV mode to watch the game's best players do their thing live or just enjoy highlights from 
 matches. Unfortunately, you'd be hard-pressed to actually use any of these great features because 
 almost nobody is playing online. We never saw more than four people online at one time, which is 
 a shame considering how much effort the developer put into this aspect of the game.  

           Some of the minigames do a great job of combining the gameplay of their source material 
 with tennis.      

  You won't be amazed by Sega Superstars Tennis' visuals, but it's a decent-looking game that makes 
 good use of its source material. The courts and their surroundings look like they were ripped straight 
 from the games on which they were based. The characters aren't particularly detailed, but they 
 all look fine and are nicely animated. Sonic will spin to get to hard-to-reach shots, Beat will 
 skate around the court, and Nights hovers just above the court while gliding to and fro. Although 
 the game is hardly pushing the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 to their limits, the frame rate isn't 
 always steady, particularly on the PS3. Some courts are worse than others during singles play, 
 but the frame rate chugs on any stage if you're playing doubles.  

  If you're looking to play traditional tennis, then you'll want to stick with Top Spin or Virtua 
 Tennis. But if you want a lighthearted tennis game, enjoy minigames, and have a special place in 
 your heart for the glory days of Sega, then you'll find a lot to like in Sega Superstars Tennis. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (23 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gokuplusvegeta
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  what i see is that a very good game is here for the world!
  but one of the best webs ever has it's link!
  so i am basicly telling that sega tenis is so super 
 of course amazing!
  it is very snappy!
  (click, click)
  and it does a litlle exersise so how would hate it?
  just plain fun
  but on the wii there isnt 
 that much of good graphics though
  i am sorry but for graphics i would choose the one and only XBOX360
  but XBOX360 cant really 
 do exersise and breaks really fast so PSP is good to!
  anyways back to the game i gave it a 8.0 for its poor players come on you got to admit we need 
 better players for the game!
  ya thats the real person who saaid ya i shoud agree with gokuplusvegeta!
  this is game sense 
 people!
  we love it: O
  atlesat the players are superstars!
  so i hope you agree with me
  and renember this is a super supoer amazing killa to get you socks 
 off game i reapeat a super super amazing killa to get your socks off game that everybody is mad 
 for like me
  ya i am so so so o so crazzy of this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioboy333
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game at first. I thought it would be okay. It was boring a bit the courses look good. That 
 is the good point. The mission are okay. The hitting of the tennis ball is a bit delayed. They 
 have characters they I never heard of like Beat. The game isn't all bad it is kind of fun at first.
 
  
  The specials are fine with some characters. Sonic's is bad because it is to easy to hit back. I 
 can't remember the rest. Anyway the speicals can take a while to build up. Now more into the missions.
 
  
  Some missions are easy to do some are almost impossible to do. Also some are just crazy. Anyway 
 I did not like it alot. So you should rent it first. I forgot to tell you it is kind of slow. Also 
 kncules isn't in the game. Remember it isn't all bad. It is fair. Well that is all I have to say 
 about this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Th3rdWiiBro
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  I have played this game for a while now and it was a favorite of mine. The game offers a great 
 variety of movement and its fun to show off your fore hand and back hand. Soon, though, as you 
 unlock the characters and basically finish the game, it can get very boring. I haven't tried online 
 but there isn't much to do after you finish, most games are like this, this game then turns into 
 a game you would play with visitors and friends. This is a very fun game all around though, and 
 I definitely recommend it to anyone who enjoys tennis, exercise, and spiking the snot out of sonic. 
 =] This game can really bring out the good sport and poor sport in you and I usually get really 
 into it. The game doesn't equal the standards of the Top Spin series but it comes very close. Buy 
 this game and you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwaitman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  On the out side, sega superstars tennis looks like SSBB, exept tennis and without nintendo. but 
 its not like that. Its almost better! In what game can you blast the evil inhabitants of curien 
 mansion with tennis balls and write graffiti in the world of jet set radio in the same day? Now 
 on to the charecters. Every single awesome sega charecter! THeres Ulala and pudding from space 
 channel 5, NIGHTS and Reala from NIGHTS, Beat and Gum from jet set radio, and even a retro gillius 
 thunderhead, and 3-D alex kid! Does get any better? yes, it does. You can choose from three controller 
 modes, play as Amigo, blast aliens in a space harrior themed world, and even be eaten by (very shiny) 
 zombies! so, on the bottom line get this game if you like  
 bite marks, raquet throwing undead monsters, or creepy reporter chicks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowSonic20
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  In this Sega tennis installment, all of the company's most famous characters come together once 
 again. For those that played many of the Sega series in the Dreamcast, you are definitely going 
 to see many of your favorites in this game including space channel 5's Ulala, Samba De Amigo, Jet 
 Set Radio and even older Sega characters that include Gillius from Golden Axe, Nights and many 
 more. There is no actual storyline in the game which is a bit sad because it would have been interesting 
 to see all Sega characters interact with each other in some cut-scenes, besides the traditional 
 intro cut-scene. Still, does Sega manage to create a great new tennis party title? Read on and 
 find out!
  
  The Wii version of Sega Superstar Tennis offers 3 control types so you can choose which one you 
 play best with. The first and default control option they give you it's similar to Wii sports: 
 tennis game. In which, you only use the wiimote to make the motion of racquet and hit the ball 
 at the right time. The character automatically follows the ball himself but you can also control 
 your character with the D-Pad if you like.
  
  The second control option is using both the wiimote and the nunchuk. The wiimote is use to perform 
 the motion of the racquet and the nunchuk to move your character, which means the character will 
 not move automatically. And the third control option is using the wiimote sideways where you hit 
 the ball with the number 2 button or number 1 (one hits the ball slower and the other faster) and 
 move the character yourself with the D-Pad.
  In some of the minigames, a specific control type must be use, so eventually you will get the chance 
 to try each type of control. All of these control options work nicely, it all depends which one 
 you dominate more.
  
  They are different types of modes to play including tournament, superstars, minigames and exhibition 
 for multiplayer experience. The Superstars mode is the important single-player mode that includes 
 different types of challenges, tournaments, exhibitions and many more in different courts of famous 
 Sega games. In this mode as you progress, you can unlock new courts, new characters and new minigames. 
 Most of the secret characters can be unlocked by defeating them in the tournament they appear in. 
 They are different worlds to unlock in which each world is a different Sega game that definitely 
 gives you excitement to see what other Sega games are going to appear. One of the worlds is House 
 of The Dead where you knockout zombies by throwing balls at them.
  
  Unfortunately, some worlds didn't get an official court or some playable characters. For example, 
 in the Puyo Pop world you are popping puyopuyo balls like the classic game. However, you play this 
 game in the NiGHTS court, not an official Puyo Pop court and they are no characters playable from 
 the series. And this also happens with other game worlds featured in the Superstars mode. Despite 
 that, it still manages to keep you entertain for a while and gives you some difficult challenges 
 that will keep you coming for more.
  
  The normal tennis games are simple, fun and offer nice controls. Each character has a unique power 
 up move, just like in Mario Power Tennis (Power Shot) . Shadow can transform into hyper shadow and 
 every time he hits the ball, when the opponent touches the ball he is transported (chaos control) 
 to another area of the tennis court and freezes for a few seconds. Dr. Eggman can throw spike electric 
 balls every time he hits the ball. You can play in singles (one vs. one) or in doubles (two vs. 
 two) . There is a total of 16 characters to choose from and each of them are unique physically and 
 in gameplay, so there is something for everyone.
  
  Visually, the characters do look pretty good and is nice to see some old classic characters that 
 we never get to see in 3-D or on a recent console. The court designs are decent but are missing 
 some sort of excitement in the crowd even some look quite a bit blurry. One disappointing court 
 is Sonic's court that even tough it features some sonic characters in the background; the rest 
 is just simple typical grass of green hill zone. Honestly, they are more stages to represent sonic 
 not just green hill zone that is already getting really old by now. Yet, they are some nice looking 
 courts like Nights' that is in a beautiful water floor.
  
  Some of the special effects within the power-ups do look nice but the animation of the character 
 getting ready to perform it feels a bit bland (like when sonic transforms into super sonic) because 
 the background behind them is just a plain color. In the end, Sega superstar tennis delivers some 
 decent graphics but does not uses the full potential of the Wii and does not deliver quite a great 
 level of detail for the characters or the courts has it should be. Sonic has looked better in Sonic 
 and the Secret Rings than in this game.
  
  Has expected, the soundtrack is full of classic songs from each game series featured in the game 
 and there is also unlockable songs so you can decide which one you want for that specific court. 
 Yet, when it comes to the sound effects they are not in such great quality as it should be like 
 if they were added in a rush. Same happens with the voiceovers that are not many featured considering 
 how characters like sonic are common to have a lot. Despite a few bugs in the sound, it still manages 
 to do a decent job.
  
  The other versions of the game for Xbox 360 and PS3 feature online play, but strangely enough Sega 
 decided not to include it on the Wii version. Why exactly? Nobody knows but it definitely is disappointing 
 that is not included it on the Wii version. The game still delivers up to 4 players offline multiplayer 
 that is always nice to invite a pair of friends and just have fun with an easy to pickup and play 
 tennis game. However, if you want to play doubles and there is only 2 human players, they automatically 
 put the second human player be with the other human player instead of each player having a computer 
 player.
  
  Overall, Sega Superstars Tennis offers a nice pick up and play tennis game similar to the likes 
 of Mario tennis and while you wait for a new installment of Mario Tennis on the Wii, this one should 
 do for now. If you are a fan of Sega games then there is quite a lot for you to like in this title 
 and certainly you will feel familiar with and for the price of 30 dollars right now on the Wii, 
 it's definitely worth it to play or at least rent it and enjoy some tennis action with Sega characters! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSmokeNinja
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun. And how do you think I know... because I rented it. I enjoyed playing this 
 game Shadow, Sonic, and Reala were my top characters though. It took me a while to get the hang 
 of this game, but once I did I was pretty good. The first thing I liked about it was the specials. 
 Shadow's special seemed to be imposible to get through. The second thing that I liked was the levels 
 or courts ( whatever you want to call them) my favorite one of them all is the jetset radio, my 
 second favorite was The Haunted Mansion level
  
  The third that I gave this game a 10 is because of the graphics. That was pretty nice too.
  
 
  Also the tournament mode was fun too I had often found myself playing that mode. Its too bad that 
 I had only rented the game, and right now I'm trying to buy it. Hopefully I can find it for a good 
 price on ebay ( thats where I get most of my games)
  
  This game is one of the best games that I have played.
  
  I didn't see anything wrong with 
 it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicphoto
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  In this Sega tennis installment, all of the company's most famous characters come together once 
 again. For those that played many of the Sega series in the Dreamcast, you are definitely going 
 to see many of your favorites in this game including space channel 5's Ulala, Samba De Amigo, Jet 
 Set Radio and even older Sega characters that include Gillius from Golden Axe, Nights and many 
 more. There is no actual storyline in the game which is a bit sad because it would have been interesting 
 to see all Sega characters interact with each other in some cut-scenes, besides the traditional 
 intro cut-scene. Still, does Sega manage to create a great new tennis party title? Read on and 
 find out!
  
  The Wii version of Sega Superstar Tennis offers 3 control types so you can choose which one you 
 play best with. The first and default control option they give you it's similar to Wii sports: 
 tennis game. In which, you only use the wiimote to make the motion of racquet and hit the ball 
 at the right time. The character automatically follows the ball himself but you can also control 
 your character with the D-Pad if you like. 
  
  The second control option is using both the wiimote and the nunchuk. The wiimote is use to perform 
 the motion of the racquet and the nunchuk to move your character, which means the character will 
 not move automatically. And the third control option is using the wiimote sideways where you hit 
 the ball with the number 2 button or number 1 (one hits the ball slower and the other faster) and 
 move the character yourself with the D-Pad. In some of the minigames, a specific control type must 
 be use, so eventually you will get the chance to try each type of control. All of these control 
 options work nicely, it all depends which one you dominate more.
  
  They are different types of modes to play including tournament, superstars, minigames and exhibition 
 for multiplayer experience. The Superstars mode is the important single-player mode that includes 
 different types of challenges, tournaments, exhibitions and many more in different courts of famous 
 Sega games. In this mode as you progress, you can unlock new courts, new characters and new minigames. 
 Most of the secret characters can be unlocked by defeating them in the tournament they appear in. 
 They are different worlds to unlock in which each world is a different Sega game that definitely 
 gives you excitement to see what other Sega games are going to appear. One of the worlds is House 
 of The Dead where you knockout zombies by throwing balls at them. 
  
  Unfortunately, some worlds didn't get an official court or some playable characters. For example, 
 in the Puyo Pop world you are popping puyopuyo balls like the classic game. However, you play this 
 game in the NiGHTS court, not an official Puyo Pop court and they are no characters playable from 
 the series. And this also happens with other game worlds featured in the Superstars mode. Despite 
 that, it still manages to keep you entertain for a while and gives you some difficult challenges 
 that will keep you coming for more. 
  
  The normal tennis games are simple, fun and offer nice controls. Each character has a unique power 
 up move, just like in Mario Power Tennis (Power Shot) . Shadow can transform into hyper shadow and 
 every time he hits the ball, when the opponent touches the ball he is transported (chaos control) 
 to another area of the tennis court and freezes for a few seconds. Dr. Eggman can throw spike electric 
 balls every time he hits the ball. You can play in singles (one vs. one) or in doubles (two vs. 
 two) . There is a total of 16 characters to choose from and each of them are unique physically and 
 in gameplay, so there is something for everyone.
  
  Visually, the characters do look pretty good and is nice to see some old classic characters that 
 we never get to see in 3-D or on a recent console. The court designs are decent but are missing 
 some sort of excitement in the crowd even some look quite a bit blurry. One disappointing court 
 is Sonic's court that even tough it features some sonic characters in the background; the rest 
 is just simple typical grass of green hill zone. Honestly, they are more stages to represent sonic 
 not just green hill zone that is already getting really old by now. Yet, they are some nice looking 
 courts like Nights' that is in a beautiful water floor.
  
  Some of the special effects of the power ups do look nice but the animation of the character getting 
 ready to perform, feels a bit bland (like when sonic transforms into super sonic) because the background 
 behind them is just a plain color. In the end, Sega superstar tennis delivers some decent graphics 
 but does not uses the full potential of the Wii and does not deliver quite a great level of detail 
 for the characters or the courts has it should be. Sonic has looked better in Sonic and the Secret 
 Rings than in this game.
  
  Has expected, the soundtrack is full of classic songs from each game series featured in the game 
 and there is also unlockable songs so you can decide which one you want for that specific court. 
 Yet, when it comes to the sound effects they are not in such great quality as it should be like 
 if they were added in a rush. Same happens with the voiceovers that are not many featured considering 
 how characters like sonic are common to have a lot. Despite a few bugs in the sound, it still manages 
 to do a decent job.
  
  The other versions of the game for Xbox 360 and PS3 feature online play, but strangely enough Sega 
 decided not to include it on the Wii version. Why exactly? Nobody knows but it definitely is disappointing 
 that is not included it on the Wii version. The game still delivers up to 4 players offline multiplayer 
 that is always nice to invite a pair of friends and just have fun with an easy to pickup and play 
 tennis game. However, if you want to play doubles and there is only 2 human players, they automatically 
 put the second human player be with the other human player instead of each player having a computer 
 player.
  
  Overall, Sega Superstars Tennis offers a nice pick up and play tennis game similar to the likes 
 of Mario tennis and while you wait for a new installment of Mario Tennis on the Wii, this one should 
 do for now. If you are a fan of Sega games then there is quite a lot for you to like in this title 
 and certainly you will feel familiar with and for the price of 30 dollars right now on the Wii, 
 it's definitely worth it to play or at least rent it and enjoy some tennis action with Sega characters! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpunk96
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 12:54 am PT
Review:  So I'm A HUGE Sonic/Sega fan so you may be wondering what's my take on this game. Is it bad, Is it 
 good..... well it's kinda in the middle. Here let start by explaining the gameplay.... it's tennis... with 
 Sega characters.... that's it. Ok how about the controls..... in the middle, by that I mean the normal 
 control works fin while the motion controls are nothing short of broken (I'm sorry to say) . Well 
 how about the character select.....? Also in the middle, I mean you have the Sonic, NiGHTS, and Golden 
 Axe character (s) , but besides that their's really no other good picks. Now on The A. I., it's close 
 to impossible to beat them, it's really annoying. Now ths game (unlike the 360 and PS3 versions) 
 has no online, which I don't have alot to say but that it sucks. The game's graphics are decent, not 
 great, but they don't hurt the eyes. Now where the game really shines is the collection of classic 
 Sega Music and really fun minigames that pay tribute to classic Sega games and the courts that 
 do the same. All, in all if you really like Tennis and/or classic Sega this game may be worth a look, but 
 besides that, avoid it.
  NOTE: Only reason I gave it a 7.5 is because I'm a Sega guy, it's more of a 7 or 6.5.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjgamefreak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  To say the least this game is a real fun game, but the flaws make it hard to play though. For example, 
 when you are serving sometimes you try to hit the tennis ball but you miss a few times, that happens 
 to me alot. The graphics are quite impressive, and.......... well this game is pretty hard. In this 
 game you can choose what difficulty you want, but when you play a first time then it's hard to 
 know what to do, and the delayed controls make it worst, but after a while it gets easier and easier 
 to learn. There are a few game modes like Match mode, Superstar mode and a mode you can play mini 
 games on, lets just call this Mini game mode. Match mode is nothing more then a multi player mode. 
 You can choose to play singles mode or doubles mode. Singles mode is just you vs. your opponent. 
 In doubles mode it'; s tag team vs. tag team. Superstar mode is a type of tournement mode, you choose 
 which court to choose from then you have a tournement in that court. Mini game mode is real cool, 
 it's a mode with a load of mini games from all of the sega characters in this game. Although there 
 are flaws and delays it's still a fun game. Oh yah I almost forgot that there are four ways to 
 play this game. Standard, W/nunchuck, Traditional or classic remote. Standard is where you hold 
 and use the Wii remote like a tennis racket, W/nunchuck you use the analog stick, traditional (which 
 is my favorite way to play) is holding your Wii remote the classic way. I can't tell you about 
 using the classic remote because I don't have a Wii remote unfortinately. Heres aother thing, you 
 can use special move when the sar under your character is filled up. To do that you press A and 
 B at the same time. Overall this is a fun game, though there are flaws and delayed controls.
  
  
  
  Overall 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefanforlife
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 31, 2008 4:02 am PT
Review:  Sega Superstars comes back the first was an Eye Toy game from the PS2 now Sega Superstars returns 
 for Tennis with a whole new control system on the Wii. This game was developed by Sumo Digital 
 who developed Virtua Tennis 3 but this is not even close to that.
  
  Sega Superstars Tennis brings out all those Sega legends from the past put stages or even characters 
 and even add some of the classic music. The stages you will see in this game are Space Harrier 
 (which it is fantastic theme music) , Puyo Pop Fever, Sonic The Hedgehog - Green Hill Zone and Scrap 
 Brain Zone they even add the music, Virtua Squad, Nights, Super Monkey Ball, Space Channel 5, Samba 
 De Amigo even more. Alex Kidd has been brought back as a playable character as for the rest you 
 should know them well any Virtua Fighter people do not even feature on this game.
  
  Here is what the game has and does
  
  Planet Superstars - This is the main mode in the game 
 you get over 100 challenges and various different levels from Sega classic gems. When doing these 
 you will unlock music, characters, courts and mini games. Each stage will have a set mission as 
 for Sonic you will have to collect rings and dodge spiked balls and bombs, Super Monkey Ball has 
 you putting the balls in the hoop things, House of the Head stage (though it's called something 
 else) this will see you fighting off Zombies, as for the rest you will have to do tournaments and 
 other matches.
  
  Match - this is simple this is just where you can make a match of up to 4 players.
  
  Tournament 
 - Here you can play with friends or against the computer and chose different courts to take part 
 in.
  
  Games - This is where the mini games are you will have some unlocked at first but as for the rest 
 you will have to do superstar mode to unlock those. These games are really what you do in Planet 
 Superstars mode they are fun.
  
  The game is good fun and entertaining though versing the Computer is stupid sometimes when your 
 in a double match and your partner is the computer it will take them 3 serves to hit the ball this 
 is annoying. The controls on this game however respond when your hitting your Wii mote which is 
 better then the slow response Rockstar Games presents Table Tennis did.
  
  There is no online play which is a shame it would of made this game better in reply value. Instead 
 of an online system we get 3 control methods just using the Wii mote, Wii mote and Nunchuk or the 
 classic controller. Sega Superstars is a good game which is really down to the control system of 
 the Wii. Now I hate tennis games but this is pretty fun plus it gives you a chance to remember 
 some of the classic old times from Sega. I have to say this I love that theme music on the menu 
 screen it's awesome. If you see this game under 19.99 it's worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockstarDX
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 26, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  
  Introduction
  
  Oh Sega Superstars Tennis. What can I say about this game? It's the second one in the Sega Superstars 
 series where all of your favorite Sega icons like Sonic, Nights, Aiai, Samba, and more gather together 
 for another awesome crossover game. Similar to Nintendo's Smash Bros. But Superstars tackles numerous 
 genres. Last time, it tackled a collection of games for the PS2. It took creative use of the eyetoy. 
 Now they are back and are taking it to the courts. That's right, we get to see the blue blur play 
 tennis this time. This is Sega Superstars Tennis.
  
  SuperStardom
  
  This game is made on the Virtua Tennis 3 engine and developed by Sumo Digital. The people behind 
 Virtua Tennis 3. So you already know this game is not that bad. The main thing you'll be doing 
 in the game is alot of unlocking. And you unlock by playing Superstar Mode. You select a series 
 and play missions based on the series. Like for the Sonic missions, you'll be playing the Sonic 
 mini game and playing tennis in the Sonic courts like Green Hill zone. You can unlock characters, 
 mini games, and courts through this mode.
  
  This mode is a nice way to unlock stuff. But it can get real repetitive with the mini game missions. 
 In series that have a mini game, you'll be playing at least twenty missions on them. Instead of 
 some tennis. I like the mini games, but I don't want over 50% of the game to be mini games. I want 
 it to be half tennis and half games. Tennis barely gets a part in Superstar mode. I wished they 
 came up with a better like a story mode though. Would've been nice to to see the Sega stars interact 
 through story. Maybe we will in the next Sega Superstars game.
  
  The Tennis
  
  This is what the game is all about. The tennis. It's pretty similar to Virtua Tennis 3. Which is 
 good. But they decided to make it easier and simpler for the casual audience. Nothing wrong with 
 that. There are four control schemes. But why no GameCube option? Aww. The best control is probably 
 the Wii Remote and Nunchuck. It's alot like Wii Sports' tennis but you can move. Which is great. 
 And also a little tiny bit more difficult. Also, they were bound to add this. A special power. 
 When your star on the bottom of you character is shining, you can activate the Superstar power. 
 When using it, it has a special effect to your opponent when you hit it to your opponent. For example, 
 Shadow's transports your opponent to a different spot with chaos control when your opponent hits 
 the ball back. Confusing him/her. 
  
  All superstars power are fairly similar and different. They don't have as much effect that you'd 
 think they'd have on the game, which is good. But they still are useful. The tennis is average 
 at best. It adds really nothing new to the tennis formula. But it does get the job done. Pitting 
 Sega characters in the tennis court. That's all this game merely is.
  
  The Games
  
  The game does excel in something. There are mini games in the game that combine tennis with elements 
 from Sega games like Sonic The Hedgehog and Jet Set Radio. For example, in the Sonic game, you 
 collect rings and avoid the spiky electrified filled balls thrown by the robots on the other side 
 of the other court. Another game in the Super Monkey Ball game. Where you have to hit the monkey 
 balls into the goals seen in the Super Monkey Ball games using tennis balls.
  
  The mini games are quite fun. They take some great use of tennis normal elements with elements 
 from the Sega games and combine them perfectly. The only great part of the game. But they do get 
 repetitive if played too much. Especially in Superstar Mode. So make sure to not play them too 
 much. It may really frustrate you with its difficult tennis aiming strategies in alot of games.
 
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics are quite sharp. I don't think I can notice many differences with this version compared 
 to the 360 version. That's great. It's about time the Wii version is not really dumbed down from 
 the 360/PS3 version. Of course, 360 version is better in terms of graphics. The models and courts 
 are designed very colorfully and nicely. The menus are great too.
  
  Sound
  
  The background music for menus and courts are excellent. Alot of the tracks are used from the games 
 that are supported in this title. All in one great package. There are even multiple songs you can 
 use for each stage. The sound effects are good too and get the job done. Voices aren't too major 
 here. There are only little bits of them in here so they don't get in the way.
  
  Replay Value
  
  The game doesn't offer that much replayability if you don't have a group of 
 friends to tell the truth. This is the weakest point of the game. You won't be coming back to play 
 the game. There's just not much to do other that Superstar Mode. That mode can get a little repetitive 
 too. If they only added a funner way to unlock stuff and more content. Sixteen characters just 
 doesn't seem enough from the large roster of Sega characters. Why ain't Knuckles and Billy Hatcher 
 in there? Also, where's online for the Wii version? It could've really saved it.
  
  Buy or Rent?
  
  Is this game a buyer or a renter? I can't believe it, but I'm saying a renter. 
 Why? Replay value is why. You won't be coming back for more. But I may not be the best critic for 
 such a game because I really don't like tennis games so much. The mini games made me buy it though. 
 If you liked Virtua Tennis 3, you'll defiantly like this and it's worth a buy. If this game only 
 had online play for the Wii version. The mini games are worth checking out for the Wii version 
 however. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddpramo
Rating: 8
Date: May 4, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  At first this game seem difficult to play but once you get the wii remote controls down it is very 
 fun. If you are going to play this with children they may prefer to use the traditional control 
 style (using the d pad instead of motion sensors) as it can be difficult for them to play witht 
 the other styles. I'm glad that they still incorperate the d-pad option since it is easy for younger 
 ones to catch on that way. My daughter (7 years old) can play very well using the d-pad. When going 
 it alone though this game is also very fun and it even gets you a little work out and almost feels 
 like you are playing a real game of tennis except you don't have to go chasing down the ball every 
 time it leavs the court which is a great plus. If you are looking for a fun family game to play 
 or just want a good arcade style tennis game Sega Superstars tennis is the one for you exspecially 
 if you are sonic fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soenderup32
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 11:50 pm PT
Review:  SEGA Superstars Tennis is a good and entertaining game, but the steering drags down the game, for 
 good! 
  
  In singleplayer you can play a few zombie games, where you have to shoot zombies, that are coming 
 up the ground, with tennis balls  that's very funny in both singleplayer and multiplayer, but 
 after 20 minutes, when the zombie-levels are finished, you find yourself bored, in the same tennis 
 matches again and again. Normal tennis games in this games gets very boring, because of the steering 
  it's always the same! 
  
  The controls are lame and they don't use the advantage of the Nintendo Wii remotes! It's far out, 
 to make a game, who doesn't use that advantage! The steering works with the buttons only!
  
  The graphics is a bit better than average and you don't ever get confused while playing.
 
  
  The game isn't worth the money and only the zombie games and one hour of normal tennis games are 
 worth playing! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAK1294
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Firstly if you are going to get this game, i would say get it on the wii because it feels like 
 your really in the game ( Depends if you have a wii) . Also even though i have put easy its still 
 a great game i would say give it a try (its great for multiplayer!) . Also there are many different 
 courts in the game, and each character in the game has a special power e. g. egg man throws bombs. 
 But you can only unlock it if your star starts to sparkle. To get the star to do that you have 
 to hit the ball more and score against the other players. I think they should of put coins in the 
 game so you win matches, save up, and buy knew characters or tennis courts. Thats the only thing 
 i didnt like in the game apart from just few other stuff. So i wouldnt really recommend it to someone 
 that like sports games.... but i would! because this isnt an ordinary tennis game this is a jacked 
 up tennis game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  As far as tennis games go, this is really medicre at best, high difficult for beginners makes for 
 some frustration out of the box, granted this really is best played multiplayer but still doesn't 
 make the actually 'tennis' part any good at all, many of the characters specials are pretty unbalanced 
 - Think Dr Eggman here with his annoying stunning attack, this could have been so much better if 
 they had stuck with Wii Sports tennis style of play - Superstars method of hitting the ball is 
 very boring and takes alot of skill and patience to learn until you can actually start having fun 
 - because of this fact, Sega essentially 'bribes' you with a collection of uninspired mini-games 
 to distract you.
  
  What would have made this game so much better would be alot more control over the ball than simply 
 waving the remote seemly randomly to hit the ball and have the CPU decide what direction its going 
 to head in, this makes for some highly tedious matches resulting in a win for who's special becomes 
 ready first - which makes me wonder alot about the design of the game, if the specials are perhaps 
 one of the few ways to win.
  
  Anyone looking for a decent and 'fun' tennis game should either stick with Wii Sports or maybe 
 rent this first to see if its your cup of tea, otherwise wait for Top Spin 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursemarkChris
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  By Christopher Morriar HR: 176
  Ms. Aurora
  Websites: Ideafinder. com & About. com Authors: Bells Mary & Unknown 
  George Washington Carver 
 was born on July 12, 1864. In a small town in
  Missouri, called Diamond Grove. Until in 1874 when he left the farm where he was born and eventually 
 settled in Minneapolis, Kansas where he was turned down by the University of Kansas, but was soon 
 excepted to Simpson College, before transferring to Lowa State College of Agriculture , and Mechanic 
 Arts, which is now called Lowa state University. 
  After years of dedicated work at Lowa State College, he earned his Bachelor of Agriculture degree 
 in science , and then a Master of Agriculture degree in 1896. He became the director of agricultural 
 research that same year. Where he remaind until his death in 1943. He devoted his life to understanding 
 nature, and the many uses for the simplest plant life. 
  Carver revolutionized southern agriculture by introducing peanut, soybean, and sweet potato, to 
 replenish the nitrogen in the soil, which during that time, had been largely depleted , because 
 of cotton growth . But he didn't stop there, he kept working hard until he got his Honorary degree 
 , a Doctor of science.
  He soon created more than 300 peanut based products , including milk, cheese, flour, ink, dyes, 
 wood stains, soap, and cosmetics. In addition , Carver developed 118 sweet potato based products 
 , including vinegar, molasses, rubber, ink, and postage stamp for glue. He worked diligently for 
 the rest of his life, until the day he died, January 5th, 1943.
  But before he died , he donated all of his savings to establish the George W. Carver Foundation 
 at Tuskegee University. George Washington Carver is now in the National Inventors Hall of Fame. 
 His legacy still living in the hearts of many African-Americans, and will live on for many, many 
 more years. So don't forget about the peanut man, George Washington Carver.
  
  Chris thanks you for reading!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wael_rajab
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  This is a really fun game playing going through story mode with sega characters and unlock alot 
 of secret stuff including Characters. And all the mini games in Sega superstar tennis are a thrill 
 to play
  
  Multiplayer u can play against your friends 1 on 1 or team and you can do alot of crazy tricks 
 playing your friends.
  
  Naturally, if you're going to do a character-based tennis game, Virtua Tennis is a fantastic foundation 
 to build off of. And in the three-plus years of life the Nintendo DS has been without that property, 
 the appearance of SEGA Superstars Tennis is, at the very least, something noteworthy on a system 
 that hasn't really excelled in the sports department.
  
  If you replaced the traditional tennis courts with ones taking place in such SEGA universes as 
 Sonic the Hedgehog's Green Hill Zone, the Nights dreamworld Nightopia, and House of the Dead's 
 Curian Mansion, and then replace the professional athletes with Sonic and Tails from Sonic the 
 Hedgehog, AiAi from Super Monkey Ball, Beat from Jet Grind Radio, and Ulala from Space Channel 
 5, you'd get SEGA Superstars Tennis. And that's exactly what Sumo, the developer of Virtua Tennis, 
 has done for SEGA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrSalvador4
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  Sega grabs a bunch of characters and out them into a Tennis game. For all you who said "pzzz, mario 
 tenniz rip-off, what's next, sonic kart?". So, because Nintendo did it first, no other company 
 in the world can do it, right?
  
  Graphics: They are OK, not bad but not mind-blowig
  
  Sound: Great Music and cool voice acting (except for Gilius voice who sounds like a pedophile)
 
  
  Controls: The motion controls are BAD. You can't direct the ball, you just press with the d-pad 
 where you want it and you swing. So, play with the wiimote sideways.
  
  Characters: There are cool ones like Sonic, Amigo, NiGhts and Alex Kidd. But there are also lame 
 ones like secondary characters from Space Channel 5 or Jet Set Radio. I would have liked to see 
 some Street of Rage characters, or Vectorman, or the guy from Comic Zone. Oh Well...
  
  Gameplay: It's Just Tennis. Yet is inexplicable fun and adictive (like Virtua Tennis) . All The 
 characters have powerups, for examplo Amigo's, when you hit the ball, Maracas appear in the enemy's 
 side of the court which block his view. The minigames are a lot of fun, specially the Virtua Cop 
 one.
  
  Overall: Sega Superstar Tennis is a pretty good game. Not a must buy in any way, but recommended 
 if you are either a Tennis Fan or a Sega Fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: child_of_lileth
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 20, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  So, Sega decided to make a tennis game again. That's ok cause we've all at least heard of the Sega 
 Virtua tennis games. But this one is different because it only has Sega Mascots as playable characters. 
 Sonic, Aiai, Nights, and others are all playable in this game. There are 8 characters to pick from 
 in the beginning and you can unlock more from playing certain games.
  
  The graphics are pretty good. I wasn't expecting a whole lot plain this on the Wii. But they aren't 
 bad or anything by Wii standards. The character animations are really good when they are playing. 
 The only thing I have a problem with animation wise is that they don't move in relation to what 
 they are saying, if anything at all. At the most, ya see Sonic say something for wining the match 
 but all ya see is him smile.
  
  The sound is good. There are unlockable tracks that can be found the same way ya get more characters 
 and stages. The music will get a little annoying if ya play a match that goes on for over 5 minutes 
 in a best of 3 situation though. The songs in the game are songs that relate to the stages and 
 areas so it keeps in the Sega theme very well.
  
  The controls are very easy to get used to. They have 3 methods for the Wii controls. The Wii remote 
 by itself. It uses the motion sensing to register your different movements as different types of 
 swings. You can Use the Wii remote and nun-chuck. Ya use the analog stick to move with this one. 
 And you can play with just the Wii remote but use it like ya do with the NES games on the virtual 
 console. The 3rd method is what I always use and it responds pretty well.
  
  There is a multi player mode for pretty much everything in the game, so if ya have a friend or 
 someone to play with or against this game will be good for that if your into sports games or just 
 tennis games in general. It plays like a regular tennis game except the superstar mode.
  
  Each character has a superstar meter that builds up from rallies and scoring. Once its charged 
 you can activate the characters special ability. Everyone does something different. For example, 
 Sonic goes super (of course) and can hit the ball and make it change directions while on the opponent's 
 side of the court. 
  
  This game is fun as a single player game but its probably more enjoyable if ya play as a party 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndYOU
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is average, but there's nothing wrong with average, don't get me wrong. Sega Superstars 
 Tennis is, in my opinion, Sega's minor answer to Brawl. The msuic in this game is actually pretty 
 good, a little repetitive, but good. The characters in this game are pretty cool, and there are 
 some characters in that I'd never expect to see. There's only one thing that bugs me about the 
 characters, and it's very minor: They call Dr. Robotnik "Eggman", and it seems that there's a bit 
 of an overkill on Sonic characters, but it's Sega's flagship series, so it's understandable. The 
 one part of this game that really gets on my nerves is the controls. The Nunchuck/Wiimote combination 
 works okay, but all the other configurations are frustrating. All in all, if you're looking for 
 a tennis game with some quality, Sega Superstars Tennis should keep you for a few months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StillFreeTagger
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  Ever since Mario Tennis was released back in the day for the N64, the sport has become an official 
 part of gaming. Sega has decided to join the craze with Sega Superstars Tennis. The main reason 
 I picked this up is, although it isn't a sequal to the series, it marks the return of Jet Set Radio!
 
  
  Sonic the Hedgehog has been quite busy these last few years. A few ok games, olympics with Mario 
 and even Brawling with the Nintendo group. Now he and his Sega comrads are up for a rousing game 
 of tennis.
  
  Characters from many Sega franchises return to smack around a green ball. Characters from Sonic, 
 Jet Set Radio, Space Channel 5, and more are playable. Some NPCs from the series include Blaze 
 the Cat and even DJ Prof. K as a ref in the Shibuya-Cho court. Each character has a special move 
 to help score a few points. As per usual, Sonic transforms into Super Sonic as his special.
  
  The visuals for the game on the Wii are ok, but not as what is to be expected on the 360 or 
 PS3. Characters and courts still retain the look they had in their own franchises, only updated. 
 The game looks good.
  
  The sound in SST is one of it's high points. Green Hill from Sonic brings back memories of first 
 playing as the little blue dude. These songs will let you know that Sega spared no expense and 
 will get you in the mood to play some tennis!
  
  The controls for the Wii are smooth in some ways, but at times are a bit sketchy. You use the control 
 stick to move and swing the Wii-mote to swing your racket. However, the slightest flick of the 
 Wii-mote can make your character swing unintentionally. This can cause a miss in play.
  
  Superstars Tennis also has a mini-game mode apart from the usual tennis. The mini-games pit your 
 character in a challenge similar to the gameplay of the Sega game you're competing in. House of 
 the Dead has you shooting zombie with a tennis ball, while Jet Set Radio has you tagging up Tokyo. 
 Some of these challenges are interesting, some are quite boring. They're great to kill some time.
 
  
  The only main unlockables are extra characters. That's about it. If it were up to me, the entire 
 GGs crew would be playable.
  
  If Nintendo can be successful with sports, then so can Sega. SST is a good game, especially while 
 playing with friends. If you're a fan of any Sega franchise, pick this one up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ccooldudecool
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  The Sega Stars are back playing/PWNING/Killing. Each other in tennis! 
  The stars from Sega games ( Mostly the more popular games ) Are here!
  Such stars include:
 
  Beat the techno looking dude. AiAi Teh Monkey ( Super Monkey Ball ) . Ulala, Amigo! Nights from 
 Nights. The evil ( Or as allways tries too be ) Dr. Eggman and of course too stop him is Sonic! 
 And of course more!
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is sub-par but isn't the best ever of course.
  
  Music: The music 
 fits with most/some stages but could be loads better.
  
  Graphics: If you kinda look at the characters you can notice a few pixels are off for example sometimes 
 you can see Dr. Eggman missing a yellow pixel. Very Minor for most people otherwise very nice graphics 
 overall.
  
  Mini-Games: There's a few mini games and one of theme as an example is Zombie where you have too 
 hit the Zombies coming after you with tennis balls. Interesting the zombies look sickly gross/good. 
 And it's somewhat fun ( can get boring though ) Not too mention you can do Multi-Player in zombie! 
 So in multi you try too hit the most zombies for pts
  
  
  Main Game:
  Yes you do play tennis hence the name tennis in such locations that are interesting as Sambre De 
 Amigo which has a interesting taste of music.....
  You start the match if your serving by filling up a power meter ( of stars ) and you serve! And 
 don't mess up or there Will be a fault. Just like you excpect you swing with your Wiimote ( Wii 
 Remote ) And on with the match!
  And yes each character has something different but not much sadly, Nights can fly around, Sonic 
 is fast and zigzags around the court. You can execute special moves like where Amigo makes the 
 ball go crazy and maraca's follow it which is really hard too stop it! There's of course other 
 courses and power up's for you too try/unlock. You can execute some combos of your own. 
  
  Overall Difficulty:
  
  Gameplay: Med. 
  Strategy: Easy - Med.
  Overall: Med. Just right. 
 
  
  So my final thoughts hmm it's really a good game. You can compare this too Wii Sports Tennis which 
 was nice ( of course more of a mini-game ) But this has characters ( there's some you need too 
 unlock ) 
  "Power- Ups" 
  "Stages/Stadiums and Mini-Games"
  Buy if: Your a Sega Fan, Want a cute Tennis game, Something too occupy you for awhile, Multi - 
 Player Sports game.
  Don't Buy if: You hate Sega, Your a hard-core tennis player ( or a hard-core gamer in general. 
 )
  This can occupy you for awhile but after playing this for a month ( or weeks ) you'll be bored 
 even with a friend after awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: semixx
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  SEGA superstars tennis had a quick and somewhat secret release, strange actually; the only adverts 
 were shown 1 day before. But they should of spread it better. Holy macaroni almighty fudgepacks 
 its A. M. A. Z. I. N. G. 
  
  Absolute
  Masterpeice
  Addictive
  Zainy
  Immersive
  New
  Game
  
  Cool eh? Talk about a hell-offa-game. 9th on Wii is incorrect. Either 1st or 2nd considering 
 im from the UK and havnt played super smash brothers brawl yet. Some of you may be dissapointed, 
 and yes there arn't all that many characters or stages, but i'm sooo not complaining.
  
  For me, I will continue playing this through the ages...
  
  ********************GET THIS GAME**************************
 
  
  And remember the game is:
  
  
  
  The answer is simple, 
 and this is no kiddie game, anyone could love it. 
  The gameplay is cool (I love sonics super transformation) and a superior multiplayer. Its just 
 fun fun fun. IM ASKING YOU PLEASE TO GET THIS 
 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
