-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Shaun White Snowboarding: Road Trip
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/shaunwhitesnowboarding/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Motion controls work really well.
 Great use of the Wii Balance Board.
 Pleasing, cartoony visuals.
 Wiping out is appropriately painful.
 Accessible and enjoyable multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not enough variety in the objective types.
 No character customization options.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 17, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.7, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 223 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Genre: Snowboarding
Date: Nov 16, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Intuitive and fun motion controls make Shaun White Snowboarding: Road Trip a healthy alternative 
 to the real sport. 

  Shaun White Snowboarding on the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 offered an unfocused and often boring 
 rendition of the popular winter sport. Featuring sprawling mountains that looked pretty but provided 
 little in the way of content, the game spent more time forcing you to hunt for coins hidden across 
 the expansive environments than letting you take part in actual snowboarding competitions. Thankfully, 
 the Wii version is a completely different experience. The wide-open mountains have been replaced 
 with well-constructed paths down chilly slopes, the inane quests for secret coins have been scrapped, 
 and the emphasis has been placed on pulling off wicked jumps and crazy tricks. More importantly, 
 the controls have been revamped and now take full advantage of not only the motion controls of 
 the Wii Remote, but the Wii Balance Board as well. Shaun White Snowboarding: Road Trip is a satisfying 
 re-creation of snowboarding, and though the lack of diversity limits the replay value, it's still 
 fun to hit the slopes for a while.  

           The halfpipe levels will make your head spin.      

  The controls are the most impressive 
 aspect of Shaun White Snowboarding. There are two different control options available: the Wii 
 Remote all by its lonesome or the remote combined with the balance board. With just the remote, 
 you'll tilt to turn your rider, flick up to jump, and twist the remote around to pull off some 
 fancy moves once you're airborne. The motions are logical, and your movements are responsive, reacting 
 to even a slight twist of your hand. Carving a path down an icy slope is satisfying, and pulling 
 off gravity-defying tricks can be thrilling. You can hit buttons to control how fast you tear down 
 the slopes or to adjust your move set while in the air, but everything else is motion controlled, 
 which does a great job of sucking you into the experience. The balance board is a little trickier 
 to get the hang of, but once you figure out how to lean into corners and adjust your weight to 
 do flip tricks in the air, it becomes second nature. You'll only need the remote to adjust your 
 move set for tricks; everything else is controlled by your feet. The controls in Shaun White are 
 extremely rewarding, replicating the outdoor experience for people reluctant to put up with the 
 unrelenting cold and ugly bruises the real sport entails.  

  The titular Road Trip has you flying all over the world in search of Shaun White, who seems to 
 think it's funny to leave for a new country just after he asks you to join him. You'll control 
 members of his eager posse, each with unique attributes. The difference between the riders is noticeable. 
 If you select Jasmine, you can get ridiculous air off of jumps, but you're pretty slow and will 
 have to line up your board nearly perfectly to land gracefully. Gordon is all about speed, and 
 you'll notice his ineptitude in other areas when you're trying to pull off tricks. There are enough 
 unlockable characters to cater to everyone's needs, but the lack of customization is disappointing. 
 You can't upgrade your favorite rider with more attribute points, and you don't even have the ability 
 to alter your riders' clothing. The lack of customizability hurts the personality of the game, 
 making you play as a stereotypical snowboarder rather than your own creation.  

  You'll travel across five different countries in search of the elusive Shaun White. Each mountain 
 resort has a few different slopes to tear down, along with some very creative halfpipe tracks. 
 There are only three objective types, and the lack of variety is tiresome after a while, but at 
 least you'll be focusing on crazy snowboarding antics the whole time. Scoring a lot of points is 
 the most common goal. You'll sometimes have to deal with a time limit, but you'll usually be able 
 to take your time, using the whole mountain to milk the points. A ticking combo meter urges you 
 to continually pull off moves, which means you'll be grinding and doing little bunny hops between 
 the big ramps. There are also racing events, which pit you against either the clock or other eager 
 snowboarders. When going against other riders, you'll usually earn a new playable character for 
 your group, with new attributes to take advantage of. The final objective in the game is to collect 
 things. This is actually fun in the Wii version thanks to the more confined, accessible level design 
 that stands in stark contrast to the sprawling mountains featured on other consoles. The collectibles 
 are almost always located at the beginning of a ramp or along a grindable rail, so you'll be pulling 
 off cool moves while you grab the prizes.  

           You aren't the only living thing on these mountains.      

  There are a number of 
 multiplayer modes, both competitive and cooperative. In co-op, you'll take part in a campaign separate 
 from your single-player progress. Here you'll ride down a mountain with a buddy, and your cumulative 
 score determines if you take home a gold medal or retry with your tail between your legs. In multiplayer, 
 you'll compete either in single events or in a cup to determine who the best virtual boarder is. 
 You'll be able to play with up to three of your friends in both competitive and cooperative multiplayer. 
 Though having the screen quartered limits your viewing area, the camera is able to give you a good 
 look at your surroundings, so you'll be prepared for big jumps and be able to swerve away from 
 trees well in advance. There isn't much diversity in the multiplayer events, though, so like the 
 single-player experience, it will get old before long. Still, the controls are so intuitive and 
 fun that it's easy to pick the game up for a few races.  

  The cartoony aesthetics are vivid and eye-catching. Though the tracks are rather confined, they 
 are populated with a wide assortment of trees, ramps, and rails to make every slope look unique. 
 The draw distance will give you a good view of your upcoming obstacles, so you'll have plenty of 
 time to prepare what sorts of moves you want to pull off. The most satisfying aspect of the visuals 
 is how the crashes are represented. These are some painful-looking wrecks. Riders will slam forcibly 
 into the ground, tumble awkwardly, and then rise from their failure covered in snow. Shaun White 
 is not the most technically impressive game, but smart artistic decisions have made it pleasing 
 to the eye.  

  Shaun White Snowboarding: Road Trip nails the controls, taking full advantage of the unique opportunities 
 offered by the Wii. While the objectives can't match the creative control scheme, movement is so 
 enjoyable that you'll gladly replay the same goals over again just to tilt and twist your way back 
 down the slopes. With a clean aesthetic and engaging multiplayer modes, this should satisfy those 
 looking to hit the slopes from the safety of their own home.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: finalstarzer0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 4:36 pm PT
Review:  First of all i think this game the only way to get the full likeness of it is to have the Wii fit 
 balance board. With the wii mote i give it an 7 out of 10 with the balence board i give it an 9 
 out of 10. Now you start of on a road trip with a couple of people then after you keep beating 
 challenges and races you unlock more characters. The sad thing is Shaun White, you don't unlock 
 him until the end. After you beat all the city's the two of the challenges for everything then 
 you unlock really hard challenges. Well that's all i really have to say about this game. I think 
 if you have a wii balence board then this game is a must buy. It feels like you are actually snowboarding! 
 One thing cool is that the graphics are pretty good. When you pick your snowboarder you also pick 
 a person to be your camra man whick affects your speed, boost, point boost, or just plain confusion 
 powers. I really had a good time playing it and it was just a nice experence. One thing that i 
 did'nt ike was that once you get obssed and you beat all the easy levels which won't take you long 
 then the game just sucks you out then moves you to another game. So look for this in the stores 
 it is a must buy for wii fit balence board owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sticklife123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 9:36 am PT
Review:  Okay, this is probably my first wii balance board game (excluding wii fit) , but i have to say it's 
 quite a good start, when you first start off the controls of the balance board can be quite hard 
 and can be quite painful if you are frequently jumping, but after about an hour in, the controls 
 pick up, the mountains are very creative and the moves are close to those in real life, although 
 some may make you think "WTF" (not as much as ssx 3 though) . The moves are quite easy to pull off, when 
 in air all you have to do is simply hold down a or b (maybe both) and pull the remote up, across 
 or down. On you'r first few go's you'll probably not land these perfectly but ,give it some time, and 
 you will be perfecting all the landings. It is much easier to get on rails than you would think 
 as they are quite magnetised (you can jump from quite far off and land on them) and you don't have 
 to get on them perfectly, while on a rail, you simply have to keep you'r balance equal on the board, later 
 on in the game you may need to use the wii remote though ,especially if you want to unlock all 
 the extra's. The first run through is quite simple, while you are unlocking characters, with it getting 
 slightly more complex towards the end of the career, with some courses where you will have to keep 
 retrying to get all the unlockables. The story mode is quite easy to get through though if you don't 
 want the unlockables and the career is very replayable as when you unlock shaun white (at the end 
 of you'r career) , a lot more harder challenes are available on the runs you have already done. All 
 the different countries are very nice and the cartoon style is more fitted to the wii version unlike 
 the 360 and ps3 versions where everything seems a bit dull. Nice cartoon cut scenes split the countries 
 apart and a big book of collectable images are also unlockable but more casual gamers won't be 
 interested in this. The multiplayer is quite varied, i find it is better to do it one after the other 
 rather than at the same time, as there is an unfair advantage against the person using the board, although 
 this is fine if you have 2 remotes. This mode means that player 1 go's around the course and then 
 player 2 has to beat the score or time and the best time after about 4 times (option to change is 
 available) wins. The plot of the story and doesn't require much thought, it's basically you and a 
 friend are trying to keep up with the awesome shaun white as other people join you'r crew. The moves 
 are nice to see and the wii balance board makes you feel like you are riding it (especially leaning 
 forwards to go faster) but you might need to swap to the wii remote for the harder puzzles. It is 
 very fun with friends and can be amusing for a while. Shaun white gets a bit slow out of the starting 
 gates but give it time and you'll master and enjoy it. Thanks for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cpcoasterfan
Rating: 0
Date: Jan 6, 2009 8:16 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Shaun White Snowboarding: Road 
 Trip User Reviews for Wii - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 
 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return 
 true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   MovieTome :  How 
 bad was STREET FIGHTER?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: so_hai
Rating: 0
Date: Jan 5, 2009 9:18 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Shaun White Snowboarding: Road 
 Trip User Reviews for Wii - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 
 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return 
 true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   TV. com :  Report 
 - Terminator is done    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: RetroGamer34233
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2009 10:20 am PT
Review:  If you own the Wii Balance Board, this is a great title to get. If you don't, it's just "eh." I 
 mean, it's fun, but twisting your wrist back and forth isn't as innovative as grinding out on a 
 real "board." By the way, the Wii version is completely different from the PS3/360 versions, so 
 if you're turned off by hunting for coins, don't fret.
  
  Graphics: The game is presented in a "cartoony" format. But it does look good. Basically, the viewpoint 
 is from your cameraman, even showing on the screen when they start the tape. The mountains are 
 nice, but nothing that'll blow your mind away. And if you own the Target special edition (which 
 I do) , get ready for some in-your-face red-dot-and-circle advertising (but the Target-specific 
 extras make up for it) .
  
  Sound: Great soundtrack and voice acting. However, some of the songs, I believe are, well, old.
 
  
  Controls: It takes some getting used to, but once you master using the Balance Board (you still 
 need the Wii Remote, too) this game is fun - and provides a workout you don't notice until stepping 
 off the board. Basic controls are easy to figure out (jumping, turning, etc.) , but the real fun 
 begins when you figure out complex tricks and combos.
  
  Gameplay: There isn't really a great amount of depth to this game, but it's still a lot of fun 
 and has a lot of replay value as you try to better your last score/time. Like I said, it's different 
 from the other two console versions, so finding coins isn't one of your primary objectives.
  
  Overall, this game is loads of fun, especially when competing with friends. You can do multiplayer 
 for up two four players, which is good, even though Wi-Fi multiplayer would have been great. But 
 it's missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: threedown
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  The first time i put this game in i ended up playing for like 3 hours straight, and i was only 
 going to try it out since it was late and i had to work in the morning... the board is a blast 
 to use, took me awhile to get comfortable with the tricks, maybe an hour or so, but now theyre 
 no problem. This is definately an arcade style game, it has somewhat of a cartoonish look which 
 works fine for me, and the one thing i thought was weird was you dont have to jump on to any rails, 
 you just go over to them them and you automatically get on it, takes away from the challenge a 
 little bit, but the controls otherwise work great, the story flows nicely between races, time trials 
 and trick events, with new characters aquired along the way. anyways, this game is fun, which is 
 what gaming is about, screw all the other crap 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  In this game you can be a bunch of characters some that are made up characters and of course Shaun 
 White. In the start of the game you are in a hospital and one of the main characters is hurt really 
 badly. Then one of the other main characters gets a phone call and it is shaun and the two main 
 characters that are not badly hurt go out to there van. In the game you pick one of the characters 
 to be the camera person. (You don't have to worry about the camera view cause it will be right 
 behind you no matter what) Then you have the person that you are controlling. You are first in 
 Canada and you need to get 5 tickets to do the final level in canada. You get a ticket by completing 
 each level and you also get a memo and an e-mail. The memo is like a book full of tricks that you 
 did. And you get e-mails from people that will help you more or who wants to travel with you. There 
 is two ways to play this game you can use the Wii Balance Board or the Wiimote. If you use the 
 Wii balance board you also have to use the wiimote so you can do tricks and stunts. If you just 
 use the wiimote you twist your hand around to move and control your person and you press buttons 
 to do tricks and stunts. The game has different kinds of level like there are some that are races, 
 there are some that you have to beat the time, and there are some that you have to do so much tricks 
 to get points on. The game also has great soundtracks. The music usually plays when you are snowboarding. 
 The game is really fun and enjoyable for friends and the whole family to play.
  
  The good of the game is that there are a bunch of awesome levels. Using the Wii balance board is 
 fun and you actually feel like you are snowboarding. Controls are simple. The game has a great 
 sound track.
  
  The bad of the game is that using the Wii Balance board is alittle hard and frustrating. The game 
 deosn't have enough gameplay.
  
  Overall this game is really fun to play with if you have a party or with your family. I rate this 
 game 8.0 outta 10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetriffle
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 21, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of snowboarding games so i thought it would be awesome to use the wii fit board 
 to control your character. When you first pick this game up it has a very slight learning curve 
 but you can never seem to master it because you do one thing for one trick you do the same thing 
 again thing again and it does another trick. Also a lot of time you'll get the trick you want half 
 way through your jump so it is impossible to land. Racing in this game is fine you can easily steer 
 with the board. The only problem with this game is its totally unrefined trick controls. I feel 
 that is a huge problem since my favorite part of a snowboarding game is to do tricks. If you are 
 looking for a good snowboarding game go check out SSX blur i had a lot of fun with that and it 
 shouldn't be too expensive now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dean_Harper
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 18, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  I like the game in itself. It's fun, and the wii controls fit in rather well. There are two things 
 however that kill it for me.
  
  First is the graphics. I can't stand the cartoony look on games like this. The SSX games were awesome 
 because they were realistic in their cartooniness. This game just makes it too much of a cartoon 
 for me to enjoy. The snow and stuff looks cool, but the the characters are just... blech. Also, 
 along with the characters (of which there are only two) , there are no customization options. There 
 is a guy and a girl and you have to choose which one you race with. Not very fun there.
  
  Second, I hate the camera system. Basically, whichever character you don't choose, that person 
 is your cameraman/woman. The camera follows you well, but it sits at a weird angle a lot of the 
 time, never really focused on your character. That just turned me off. I can't enjoy the game when 
 the camera is wacky like that. 
  
  The game's not a horrible one. In fact, its pretty fun the first time through. I just can't get 
 past those flaws in the camera/graphics system. I suggest you rent it before buying it. That way 
 you can see if the problems I pointed out bother you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acsguitar
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Shaun White Snowboarding: Road Trip is a game I've been following for a while. I figured like most 
 Snowboarding games, not named SSX, it would be a bore fest. However, I was proven wrong. 
  
  This is actually a really fun game. Finally the Wii has come out with a fun sports game. The 
 controls are great. Apparently you can use the balance board ( I don't have one) , so I opted for 
 the Wiimote. Its extremely easy to use. Tilt the remote side to side and flick to jump. Flail around 
 to do moves. 
  
  At first you literally have no idea how to do moves. Then you start to learn the timing and angels 
 to do different moves.
  
  Its very satisfying to figure out a new move on your own and replicate it. 
  
  Really this 
 is a lazy man's game. You can lay back on the couch with a beer in one hand and the wiimote in 
 the other hand and have a great time.
  
  The premise of the game is to follow Shaun around the world. His little comments after each "Resort" 
 are pretty funny and the characters although aimed at younger players aren't so cutesy that you 
 want to puke. 
  
  The music is also very good with lots of cool songs old a new. My favorite is White Rabbit by Jefferson 
 Airplane. 
  
  The graphics are pretty decent as well. The sense of speed you get while tucking is really neat. 
 Although its not Mario Galaxy in terms of graphics its still very good. 
  
  The only downside I see is that I can't figure out how to read old email. Also, you get "Mementos" 
 or something for completing different goals. I have no idea how to see them. All I see are check 
 marks and a Lock Symbol. Anyways not a big deal
  
  Overall this game is lots of fun for a hardcore gamer or a kid. 
  
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 9
 
  Playability: 9
  Fun Factor: 10
  Use of the Wiimote: 10
  Depth: 8
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zebhe
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  MAN IT'S FUN! It's addictive relaxing and exciting, RIDE! on the white snow even if you're in your 
 warm house!
  I've playied with ballance board and it's great. It's the very best snowboard simulation ever, 
 it's like having a board under your ass! Massive, Addictive, Super!
  Could've been better only with 2 Ballanceboard VS play. Everyone just have a try, this game give 
 you the chance to do your fav. tricks without breaking your bones! It's just easy to start, the 
 ballance board is very reactive, even if it's easy to lose ballance, great tricks are only matter 
 of time and experience. This game can seriously makes you feel like snowboarding. It's just too 
 fun to use a board and not a boaring jouypad to play, tis is innovation... this is really something 
 different to other games but similar to real snowboarding!
  Unfortunately Mii are missing! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
