-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Shrek the Third
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/shrek3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 It's got plenty of Shrek in it, if that's your thing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Combat is simple, tedious.
 celebrity sound-a-likes are inconsistent.
 attempts at humor fall flat.
 fixed camera angle is maddening.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 18, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.2
Critic Score: 5.8, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 5.6, 94 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Amaze
Genre: Action
Date: May 15, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Shrek the Third is a lazy game that coasts by on the strength of the brand. 

  Released just prior to the theatrical debut of  Shrek the Third  to maximize its synergistic potential, 
 Shrek the Third for the PlayStation 2, Xbox 360, and Nintendo Wii is more compelling as a brand 
 marketing bullet point than it is as an actual video game. While there are certainly worse movie-license 
 games out there, Shrek the Third still feels slapdash and thoughtless, plus its function to entertain 
 is overwhelmed by its function to make money.  

          The puppet show story sequences are the most interesting part of Shrek the Third.     

 
  As is movie-license-game tradition, the story in Shrek the Third provides a broad pantomime of 
 the film on which it is based. More interesting than the actual story -- which sees Shrek tracking 
 down an heir to the throne of Far Far Away while Prince Charming makes a coup attempt -- is the puppet 
 show format of the story sequences. Aside from these sequences, as well as a musical number masquerading 
 as a boss battle, most attempts at humor in Shrek the Third fall flat. This is either because the 
 celebrity sound-alike voice cast can't nail it, the timing is stilted, or the material itself just 
 isn't funny.  

  The game is a by-the-numbers action adventure game, with a heavy focus on button-mashing combat, 
 plenty of item collection, some light platforming, and some even lighter puzzle-solving. With the 
 exception of the medieval-themed high school, most of the game takes place in conventional fairytale 
 locales, pitting you against pirates, witches, gargoyles, enchanted trees, and loads of generic 
 thugs. In addition to the big, green, ill-tempered ogre Shrek, you'll play as Donkey, Puss in Boots, 
 Arthur, Fiona, and Sleeping Beauty at different points in the game.  

  Felled enemies will drop fairy dust that will fill up your three-part special attack meter. Using 
 your character's special attack will drain one section of the meter. If you fill up all three sections 
 of the meter while playing as either Shrek or Fiona, you can trigger a special ogre power, which 
 slows down time and makes everything all  Matrix like. The game's already easy, and the ogre power 
 just makes it more so. There are other minor differences among the characters, with Puss in Boots' 
 ability to double-jump and Sleeping Beauty's ability to glide slowly to the ground from high falls 
 as the most apparent. However, these differences are mostly irrelevant because combat is such a 
 dominant force in the game and every character relies on the same mindless two-button attack combos. 

  In the Wii version of Shrek the Third, the two attack buttons are substituted with waggling the 
 Wii Remote and the Nunchuk. Saying that these controls lack subtlety might mean something if the 
 combat wasn't so blunt. The other gameplay elements in Shrek the Third might have provided some 
 respite from the monotonous combat, but they end up being no more interesting. The puzzles, which 
 only pop up from time to time, barely even qualify as puzzles; at their most complex, they require 
 basic pattern-recognition skills. Much more common, and coincidentally much more aggravating, are 
 the platforming sequences. These sequences are plagued by controls that are both touchy and inaccurate. 
 Fixed camera angles also make many jumps much harder to gauge than necessary, forcing you to make 
 completely blind jumps on more than one occasion.  

  The best thing about the single-player experience in Shrek the Third is a pair of castle-smashing 
 sequences where you use two different siege weapons to demolish a series of castle towers. It's 
 just too bad that these sequences only account for a few minutes of the four to five hours it'll 
 take you to get through the story. Luckily, there's a two-player variant of this sequence that 
 you can play outside of the story mode. Additionally, there's a set of five forgettable minigames 
 that can be played either solo or with another player, including a Midway-style shooting gallery, 
 a shuffleboard variant, a terrible platforming challenge, a frog-herding minigame, and a simple 
 shooter where you have to defend your beachhead against incoming pirate ships. Some of these, such 
 as the pirate shooter, are more engaging with the Wii controls, while others end up suffering for 
 it.  

          Twenty years ago, this game would have been a lunchbox.     

  Shrek the Third is no more ambitious in its presentation than it is with its gameplay. Of the PS2, 
 Xbox 360, and Wii versions of Shrek the Third, the 360 version is easily the best-looking, with 
 lots of soft-glow lighting, texture-mapping, and particle effects. The Wii version has some decent 
 lighting, though it lacks the texture-mapping or the texture detail. The PS2 version doesn't look 
 much worse, but the lack of any lighting effects just makes it look flat. Though they all have 
 that creepy dead-eye look, the main characters are good approximations of their cinematic counterparts. 
 All three versions suffer from a terrible fixed camera that will swing around in a nauseating fashion, 
 and the angle it presents often isn't anywhere close to ideal.  

  What's perhaps most depressing about Shrek the Third is that the actual quality of the game will 
 have little, if any, bearing on its success. The game seems to operate under the notion that its 
 audience simply isn't concerned with getting an experience that's interesting or inventive, and 
 sadly, it's probably right.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 2, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Shrek is back and his debut on Wii is, like the film, a bit of a mixed bag. It's technically solid 
 enough to work as a kiddie-pleasing movie tie in, but for real gamers, or people that expect a 
 little something special from their Wii, it has absolutely nothing going for it.
  
  Beauty Or A Beast?
  Shrek the Third is essentially a linear adventure hack 'em up, pushing you 
 through enemy-filled level after enemy-filled level as Shrek seeks to find Arthur, the cousin of 
 the King, to take the royal seat when the king passes away. 
  
  It's pretty straight-forward stuff. You smash legions of bad guys, jump a few obstacles, pull a 
 few switches and collect a whole heap of stuff. And the game mixes things up a little by letting 
 you control other characters at certain points in the story. It's not a user-lead decision - the 
 level or scenario at hand dictates which character you play as, so you'll get to play as Puss, 
 with his sword, Donkey with his flying kicks, and Sleeping Beauty. 
  
  
  Combat with all characters is basic stuff too, with your standard attacks pulled off by the obligatory 
 Wii Remote waggle, and shaking the Nunchuk pulls off a more powerful uppercut. That barely even 
 touches the capabilities of the Remote, but that's testament to the fact that this is just a multiplatform 
 port, not designed to do anything special on the Wii at all. 
  
  The rest of the combat is done with buttons - B blocks, C does a finishing move (only when a C-icon 
 appears above a weakened enemy's head) , and yanking both the Z and B buttons simultaneously performs 
 that characters' special move. Shrek slows down time, Puss and Sleeping Beauty stun everyone and 
 Donkey does a flying kick, but you'll need to charge up a specials bar by collecting blue fairy 
 dust sprinkled around levels. 
  
  A Mug's Game
  There are other collectibles too, like mugs, coins and other random guff, and each level has bonus 
 mission objectives that require you to grab a certain number of these objects. But that requires 
 you to smash every last bit of scenery in the level in the hope that a random chair, table or wooden 
 crate will crumble to magically reveal a silver mug or the equivalent collectible. Miss one and 
 you have to play the whole damn level again. Can you be bothered? We certainly couldn't. 
  
  
  And that's pretty much the crunch of the whole game. It's all made nice and kiddie-friendly 
 - your energy recharges, falling down pits only respawns you again, the bosses are easy and the 
 camera is fixed so you don't have to worry about it. And it all works solidly enough - unlike games 
 like Spider-Man 3 and Fantastic Four, this movie tie-in isn't all that bad. 
  
  But unfortunately it isn't all that good either. Shrek-obsessed kids might be content with the 
 endlessly repetitive combat and lack of variety, but proper gamers certainly won't. You'll want 
 more; a lot more. And you'll resent the fact that the visuals aren't really any better than the 
 already cheap-looking Shrek games of the past generation. 
  
  Child's Play
  And you won't bother with any of the mini-games that rip off classics like Frogger, either because, 
 for some reason, they're two-player only. Not four. And not particularly fun either.
  
  It's a functional, playable quest for fans of the film, but Shrek offers absolutely nothing to 
 push your gaming skills, or your Wii for that matter.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendonoob
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun but extremely short. Fighting people is fun, simply moving the wii remote. And 
 the story although a short story is good. I found the game with each character entertaining. There 
 are many moves you can do including a charged attack. There are many video games with those kind 
 od attacks and I was glad to see it in shreck 3 for the wii. Knowing what do do is simple, just 
 fight and walk your way through a level although there are many twists to the game to move on. 
 For example some times you have to fin a way to know dwon some kind of wall and like you have to 
 find some kind of switch to get rid of this. I also found these parts of the game fun. You will 
 also need to use the characters abilities to pass a certain part of the game at some point. The 
 boss battles are fun and at times can get pretty hard and you might have to put strategy into beating 
 some of the bosses. There are also things you do in the game that are added and are not found in 
 the movie. That is cool. For example there is a part where you have to slay a dragon with arthur 
 and that is very fun and cool. Also in this part you will find donkey changing into a dragon suit 
 which gives him extra abilities like breathe out fire. This is my favorite part of the game and 
 if you get the game im sure youll find that interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimybrit
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 1, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  Here is my review for Shrek the Third on Wii.
  
  Graphics- 5.6 Early GC graphics. Blurry and fake looking. The enviorments are okay. The physics 
 are horrible. Even the 360 graphics were pretty bad.
  But what can I expect from a movie based game that took like 5 months to make.
  
  Story-6.0 
 Mediocre storyline. The voice acting is okay. The game story doesn't really follow the movie's.
 
  
  Gameplay-6.0 Boring! But hey, you get to kill stuff! Controls-5.7 The controls were unresponsive 
 and didn't work right. The game shouldn't have came out on Wii because the moiton controls suck!
 
  
  2 Player - 5.7 WTF!!! There was no co-op! The games multiplayer sucked! All you do is shoot stuff 
 at castles. Which sucks
  
  Overall-6.0 I wish my brother didn't get this game. I mean I once again I can't expect alot from 
 a game that took only 5 months to make. Pitiful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brotherscampos
Rating: 7
Date: May 30, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  Shrek the third is a game for Children, for that a GOD OF WAR Fan this game be really bad.
  Shrek el Tercero is un juego para ni&ntilde; os, por eso un Aficionado de God of War este juego 
 sera realmente malo
  The control are not bad that all, the graphics look ugly on a HDTV, the music tends to be bored, 
 the worse point is the price for the quality of the game and remenber a games for children need 
 to be cheap.
  El control no es malo del todo, los graficos lucen mal en un HDTV, la musica tiende a ser aburrida, 
 pero el peor punto es el precio por que por la calida del juego y recordando que los juegos de 
 ni&ntilde; os deben de ser baratos.
  
  My opinion is Rent it first if have Children, if you are oldder never think on this game.
  
 
  Mi opinion es Rentelo primero si tiene ni&ntilde; os, Y si usted es grandecito no piense en este 
 juego.
  
  Att. the Review is on English and Spanish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KimZ1111
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 27, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  They love this game. Their father loves this game, which is a big plus as he's the one having to 
 do all the work. Maybe they like it because they just saw the movie, but they've been glued to 
 the Wii since we walked out of Target with Shrek the Third in their sticky little hands. It's a 
 kid's game with some violence (no blood or guts though) , with goals such as gathering fairy dust 
 and coins and finding keys to enter other realms. Not a game for big macho guys but fine for kids 
 whose parents don't mind seeing Shrek knock around mean ol' fairytale characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prankinyou
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 23, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the worst games in the game universe. There is absolutely no reason to even buy 
 this game for the Wii. At first I thought Yeah, this is going to be a pretty good game, ends up 
 being ******** 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
