-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: SimCity Creator
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/strategy/simcitycreator/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 SimCity gameplay is still satisfying and entertaining.
 Visuals are crisp and buildings are detailed.
 Destroying a city is pointless but fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Camera and cursor controls are linked, making building frustrating.
 All attempts at humor fail miserably.
 New features do little to set the game apart from previous entries in the series.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 14, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.8, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 91 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Electronic Arts
Genre: Strategy
Date: Sep 22, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Poor controls and superfluous features hurt what is otherwise an enjoyable SimCity game. 

  Last year, EA created a new flavor of the Sims called MySims for Nintendo platforms. MySims didn't 
 turn the simulation world on its ear, but it did well enough to warrant a few more games and spin-offs. 
 While not part of the MySims series, SimCity Creator takes the classic city-building gameplay known 
 to PC gamers and infuses it with a bit of MySims charm. Despite the presence of the cutesy characters, 
 all the complexity of previous SimCity games is intact; it's just hiding under a thin cloak of 
 superfluous features and poor controls.  

           It's not exactly a useful feature, but destroying your city by way of giant fire-breathing 
 lizards is fun.      

  Your goal in SimCity Creator is to construct a town and help it grow into a thriving metropolis. 
 As the mayor, you'll need to meet the demands of your citizens, keep a careful eye on your budget, 
 and build new structures that encourage growth. It's a decades-old formula that still works well 
 today. In addition to the standard Free mode, which lets you build the city of your dreams with 
 little to no restrictions, there's a Mission mode. In Mission mode, you're given a goal and a time 
 limit to complete it. These goals range from reaching a population of 10,000 to saving your city 
 from complete destruction. Later missions can be very challenging and satisfying; unfortunately, 
 you're only given one save slot in Mission mode, which means if you're having trouble with a mission, 
 you'll have to restart if you decide to a try a different one.  

  SimCity Creator boasts a number of new features that are supposed to set it apart from the other 
 games in the series, but they do little to enhance the core SimCity experience. Hero buildings, 
 for example, are structures that change the appearance of your city but not the function. If you 
 build a coliseum, your town will take on Roman features; if you construct a crystal skyscraper, 
 your city will evolve into a shining metropolis. It's neat to watch your city transform under the 
 shadow of these great structures, but the change is only aesthetic.  

  If you're feeling sadistic, you can wreak destruction on your city in a number of ways. Fires, 
 earthquakes, giant robots, and more can all be unleashed on your hapless population with the click 
 of an icon. It can be fun to watch a tornado ravage your city, but other than the few times you're 
 required to use it in the Mission mode, there's really no purpose for this destruction. It's just 
 a costly and hazardous way to clear land.  

  The advisor feature from past games returns, but this time, it has a MySims-style twist. Instead 
 of making the advisors helpful by having them dispense advice, EA tried to make them funny by giving 
 them lame personality profiles and catchphrases. Finance advisor Sasha is more likely to tell you 
 of her love of bananas then how to manage your budget. It costs more to hire Rhonda than Matt, 
 but you're not told why. Maybe it's because Matt likes game shows, whereas Rhonda likes to seize 
 the day. These pointless profiles are accompanied by a news ticker that spits out all sorts of 
 ridiculous "news," such as "A cat was arrested for burglary." Real news and advice is occasionally 
 buried under the layers of goofy gags, but it's never as helpful as you might like.  

  The only new feature with any real impact on gameplay is the ability to make curved roads. You 
 no longer have to set up a city in block-by-block grids. Instead, you can squiggle lines all over 
 the place using the Wii Remote and make a twisting asymmetrical metropolis. While it's nice to 
 finally have this option included in a SimCity game, control issues make it difficult to use. Don't 
 be surprised when your curved roads come out looking like you were holding the Wii Remote with 
 your feet. Everything in SimCity Creator is controlled with the Wii Remote. The D pad navigates 
 menus while the motion controls mimic a mouse and handle the cursor. The problem with this setup 
 is that the motion controls also move the camera. Moving the cursor too far from the center of 
 the screen sends the camera soaring in that direction. There's no option to separate the two or 
 to lock the camera in place, so you have to have a steady hand and a lot of patience if you want 
 to build that perfect city.  

  There is a multiplayer mode of sorts in SimCity Creator. By going to the contest area, you can 
 enter your city in various contests and see how you rank against your friends. You can't see leaderboards 
 until you enter a contest, though, so you never know exactly what you're up against. It's a bare-bones 
 mode, but it provides some more challenge if you've already blown through the Mission mode.  

 
           You can finally build curved roads; it just takes extreme dexterity to make them look 
 pretty.      

  The crisp and clean presentation is easy on the eyes. The diverse hero buildings feature a fair 
 amount of detail while the motion-controlled helicopter or airplane rides let you get up close 
 and personal with your city. The menus -- with their big symbols and smart organization -- are easy 
 to navigate. The charming MySims characters fit in nicely with the visuals, though you don't see 
 or interact with them too much.  

  If you've never played a SimCity game before and have a capable computer, you're better off tracking 
 down an older version. You'll get most of the features, all of the depth, and none of the control 
 issues of SimCity Creator. If the Wii is all you've got, you'll still find a serviceable SimCity 
 game in Creator, but you'll just have to dig a little deeper to find it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  I've been in love with SimCity's various incarnations throughout the years, and the idea of using 
 the Wii to "wave the magic wand" seemed pretty tempting. What. A. Letdown.
  
  I will leave it up to experience and the gamespot review to get into the gameplay in detail, after 
 all it is still a kind of Sim City, and that's fairly familiar. What is NOT familiar in a game 
 that is all about careful placement, is an inexact and sluggish control scheme. 
  
  Sim City on the PC utilized the Mouse for mose of it's actions, so my first unpleasant surprise 
 was realizing that a Wiimote, and a mouse play pretty much the same in a game like Sim City, but 
 the mouse is much more accurate. Having a keyboard doesn't hurt either apparantly, because even 
 the pared-down interface for SC: Creator is pretty clumsy in practice here.
  
  As for the nuts and bolts, the only thing saving this game from being a complete disaster, is some 
 tweaked Sim City gameplay, and frankly that's always fun and well made in this game. The sound 
 is uninspiring, but familiar to fans of the series, and the graphics work well enough. There is 
 certainly a nicer colour platte here than the PC ever saw, and more to do from moment to moment 
 than than the older games offered.
  
  Of course, again, this is all brought to a screeching halt by crippling controls, and the fact 
 that it's gameplay, while having some fun moments, is still too similar to other games in the series 
 to warrent struggling with the Wiimote and the Camera in a task it clearly COULD have managed, 
 if the game had only been designed with more care. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadalus91
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 15, 2008 11:50 pm PT
Review:  Now this is a game in which has been around for year and yes with a few added features it is improved.
 
  It works quite well on Wii (better than you would think) , however the controlls and camera are 
 annoying.
  This is not really the games fault rather more the Wii's the visuals do not really come to life, 
 it looks like you have built it with a couple of buttons pressed you cannot really take pride with 
 your work.
  
  It is a fun game though i mean you start off as the usuall and make your way up eventually building 
 an empire of tall buildings, long roads and then add the occasional fire breathing monster to it.
 
  
  Having said all this i would at least rent the game it is worth a play seeing as not many other 
 games are released for the Wii and also the simple fact there is nothing like it on the Wii either, 
 well Sims but i would say this is a little better.
  
  Now back to the CoD WaW Beta :) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
