-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Smarty Pants
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/puzzle/eacasualwiitriviagame/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 20,000 questions.
 Questions cover a wide variety of topics.
 There are questions geared toward people of all ages.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not many different ways to play.
 Terribly bland presentation.
 $50 is a lot to pay for a pretty basic trivia game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 16, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.6, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 113 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA LA
Genre: Trivia / Game Show
Date: Nov 13, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Smarty Pants is a fun, no-frills trivia game for all ages. 

  The Wii's success with people who don't typically play games has resulted in the console being 
 home to an inordinate amount of minigame collections. Finally, someone figured out that these casual 
 players are interested in more than flailing their arms around to win five-second-long challenges. 
 Smarty Pants is a trivia game with 20,000 questions geared toward both kids and adults. It's bare-bones 
 as far as console-based trivia games go, and at $50 it's a good $30 too expensive, but it's still 
 a fun game to break out with groups of friends.  

           There's no worse way to find out that you're named after a breakfast food than from a 
 video game in front of your friends.      

  There are three different ways to play Smarty Pants: You can play alone; against up to three friends; 
 and with your friends in a race against the clock in family mode. Given that most people play trivia 
 games to be competitive, you'll probably spend most of your time in friends mode. Here you select 
 your Mii, which lets the game track your stats, and then input your age to ensure that the game 
 will ask you age-appropriate questions. Although an adult will probably be able to answer more 
 questions than a child no matter what questions you ask, there are some pretty kid-specific questions 
 included, so even the younger crowd should have fun and feel competitive. You can also choose the 
 game length and what scoring type you'd like. "Countdown" decreases the amount of points a question 
 is worth as time ticks away, and "wager" lets you determine a question's value by playing a not-so-fun 
 shooting-range minigame before a round.  

  Once you've got that all squared away, it's off to spin the wheel, which looks and sounds a lot 
 like the wheel from  Wheel of Fortune . This is done by performing a spinning motion with the Wii 
 Remote. The wheel is divided into categories such as arts, entertainment, sports, video games, 
 books, and fashion. You'll be asked questions on whichever category the wheels stops on, unless 
 you nudge the wheel over by pressing a button and waving the remote left or right. Depending on 
 the space where you land, you might receive a card that can be thrown into play during a round 
 by pressing B and making a throwing gesture. These cards will let you pause the timer, change categories, 
 or even narrow down the available answers.  

  Once the questions start flowing, Smarty Pants is a rather basic trivia game. Even though the questions 
 are multiple choice, they're usually quite specific, so you really need to know your stuff if you're 
 going to have any success. You answer questions by pressing the A button and raising your hand. 
 Whoever buzzes in first gets to answer, and if the answer is wrong, then other players can buzz 
 in. The specific nature of the questions combined with the fact that only one person can get points 
 for answering a question correctly makes for some pretty lopsided matches, especially because the 
 game feels geared toward men with its focus on sports and video games. There is a fashion category 
 that theoretically should be favorable to women, but the questions don't feel as tough as the sports 
 questions. The game also occasionally fails to recognize when a person is buzzing in. This is usually 
 a problem when four people are crowded around the TV and one or more of them is not directly in 
 line with the sensor bar.  

           You'd better know your presidents and wrestlers to succeed in Smarty Pants.      

 
  Although it's possible to get into some intense games when trying to prove to your friends that 
 you are indeed a smarty pants, it's going to be up to you to make your own excitement because the 
 game's presentation is incredibly dull. There's no visual pizzazz, no real announcer -- nothing happening 
 onscreen but a wheel spinning and trivia questions being shown. Balancing issues and hefty price 
 tag aside, Smarty Pants is fun and it's the only game of its kind on the Wii right now, so it's 
 worth a look if you're into trivia.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: butters0
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 10, 2009 4:19 am PT
Review:  Like i said in the Rewiew Deck: "The worst quiz game for everyone else then the british" because 
 it really is.
  
  if you set the language to "English" then you get like 40% of the questions about the british history 
 or places...
  
  theres other languages you can choose... but... all those you cant... like 20-40 countries.. dunno... 
 they cant really use the game for anything..
  
  get a question about a british place and you got 25% for guessing right..
  
  i think i have 
 played this game for 2 hours... i got 1 question i could answer without gussing.. not because im 
 stupid.. noooo.... because of the damn stupid questions.
  
  you need to be 100% british to guess all the british questions...
  
  Denmark, Sweden, Norway 
 lets say almost all from europe can't really use this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punisher2515
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 2, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Smarty Pants is good for what you expect from it. A variety of different trivia categories from 
 sports and entertainment to art and science. The questions are pretty good for the most part, but 
 sometimes you will questions right with no problem and then sometimes the game will throw some 
 tough questions at you. 
  
  The game includes some very fun and competitive modes to just going around the group and answering 
 questions. In order to choose a category you must spin a wheel and whatever you land on is the 
 category. On the wheel are cards located sporadically and they allow you to steal a question, make 
 questions harder, or the ability to multiply the points you get for the questions you get right 
 for one round.
  
  The game is better played with a group of people as it can get pretty competitive and there can 
 be some strategy involved. There is really a lack of single player. The game is fun to pick up 
 and play every once in a while. Every now and then I dust of the game and play with my girlfriend 
 for a few rounds of Smarty Pants. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amozarte
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 30, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  Smarty Pants is a collection of trivia questions accessed via the Wii as opposed to the old-school 
 deck you'd find in a traditional board game. Unfortunately it stops there, since the scant additional 
 features feel tacked-on like a lazy afterthought.
  
  Though the menu claims to offer options, they boil down to single vs multiplayer and co-op vs competitive. 
 The rest could be summed up as "difficulty". Once the game commences, you are presented with multiple-choice 
 questions and choose the answer you want by simple point & click with the Wii remote.
  
  The game's weak attempt to add motion control is implemented so poorly that as long as you waggle 
 hard enough you get credit for any task you're supposed to perform, be it "Dance", "Jump", or even 
 "Tug-of-War". I was hoping for more, but found myself disappointed.
  
  The positive side of being such a basic game is that there was little opportunity for bugs or glitches- 
 I certainly didn't encounter any. The game offers a lot of questions on a pretty wide variety of 
 standard trivia topics, so if you're just looking for endless trivia this will be slightly more 
 interactive than going through a Trivial Pursuit deck card by card.
  
  In the end, though, if I'm going to plunk down my hard earned green for a video game whose core 
 concept is already available in non-electronic format I expect to see some additions to the recipe 
 and a unique experience. Smarty Pants fails to fulfill that expectation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: getinbelly3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Smarty Pants is a fun trivia video game that lets you play against others or together. There are 
 choices of playing on a team or against each other. There are over 20,000 questions it asks you. 
 There is a lot of variety of questions it asks you. I think wifi would be a fun addition to it. 
 I would like to play other people around the world.
  
  The Good:
  
  - Fun Questions
  - Lots of Questions
  - Better use of wiimote then I expected
  
  The Bad:
  
  - Gets a 
 little boring
  - Not worth buying unless you specifically want a trivia game
  - No wifi
  
  Overall: 7.5 out of 10
  
  Smarty Pants Smarty Pants Smarty Pants Smarty Pants Smarty Pants 
 Smarty Pants Smarty Pants Smarty Pants
  
  cooooooooooolio
  cooooooooooolio
  cooooooooooolio
  cooooooooooolio
  cooooooooooolio
  cooooooooooolio
  cooooooooooolio
  
 cooooooooooolio 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bongo_boy
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  i think that this game is rubbish coz it is a game that your parents would want to play more than 
 you. for example:
  you are playing a legendary game on your wii (mario & sonic at the Olympic games) and then your 
 parents come in and saylets play smarty pants", at this moment you are thinking, mum, dad, i'm 
 playing one of the best game invented and you want me to play this piece of rubbish that you bought 
 for yourself. i know you only wan to play so that you can say that you can say 'yay i won a game 
 on the nintendo wii 'just like james may on Top Gear. so i conclude, this game is so rubbish, i 
 think tht the person who approved of it and put into the marked is one of the most stupidest people 
 in the world. this game is  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johno1995
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  To be honest, I really though Smarty Pants was going to suck. Badly. But I read numerous reviews 
 and decided it might be fun after all - as a $29.99 game. But it wasn't $29.99, it was $49.99. 
 So I left it alone until I saw a KMart ad that advertised this game on sale for $27. I told my 
 mom about it and on Christmas morning, I recieved it. My whole family loves it.
  
  Smarty Pants offers some bland visuals, a terrible menu, but Mii integration and hilarious modes.
 
  
  PRESENTATION: 6/10
  
  The visuals are bland, but the artistic style of the lightbulb in pants (the Smarty Pants, he's 
 the host) and the Mii integration helps that a bit. Plus, what should you expect from a game about 
 trivia?
  
  GRAPHICS: 7/10
  
  The game's gameplay in multiplayer is so much fun. It offers simple, easy-to-pick-up-and-play modes 
 with some mini-games that integrate the Wii Remote in fun ways. Too bad the Solo mode doesn't use 
 your Miis. It's just like playing with a random character, which stinks.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 7.5/10
  
  The host (the Smarty Pants) speaks and instructs you on how to play. He 
 is voiced well, but slow music hurts this score a bit.
  
  SOUND: 7/10
  
  There is a lot of fun to be had in Smarty Pants' off-the-wall fun multiplayer game. It's perfect 
 for parties and offers you to really show off what your brain can do. But the poor single-player 
 experience hurts this a bit, but not by much.
  
  LASTING APPEAL: 8/10
  
  Smarty Pants is an enjoyable game for all ages... except my 4-year old brother who can just barely 
 read. All he does is randomly pick answers, but he has fun doing the dancing and shooting modes. 
 
  
  Overall, Smarty Pants is a great game if you can find it at a sale prace of $30 or below, but for 
 a $50 game I don't think it's worth it. But lucky for me, we got it on sale and we play the heck 
 out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bikeaholic
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  I was suprised by this game. It is so much fun. Its like having a game show in your living room. 
 You enter your age so it will ask age appropriate questions. Me, my wife, and my 10 year old girl 
 play this all the time. How many games bring your whole family together to play? What a great experience. 
 Not to mention it is educational. We need more creative titles like this for the Wii. You raise 
 you hand to answer questions. Just like in school. Mix it up with wheel of fortune, card strategy, 
 mini games that are easy to play, and a slick super easy interface and you have an instant Wii 
 classic. Game site reviews need to start rating games by fun factor, not graphics or hype. Eliminating 
 people based on ads was a huge mistake too. This game is all about multiplayer. I have more time 
 in it then Halo 3. Recommended strongly by me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swuth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  This is amazingly fun! There is a reason why things like Trivial Pursuit and the myriad of other 
 games sell so well. PEOPLE ENJOY PLAYING THEM!!!!! And now you can get the fun of a trivia game 
 without all the cards and pieces and extra stuff thrown in for good measure. I can see how reviewers 
 giving the game low scores have to try and give an overall rating against games like Assasins creed 
 etc, but I really think they should step back and take a look at how FUN something is. 
  
  Smarty Pants has is just FUN, no it's not particularly flashy, but it doesn't need to be, the mini 
 games are a fun diversion, but the fun is in proving how much Smarter (or dumber!) you are than 
 your friends over a few "beverages" (without having to pack all the cards and stuff away when you're 
 done!)
  
  
  Come next Christmas Assasins Creed, HALO 3 BIOshock etc will be bargain binned, SMARTY PANTS, much 
 like the boxed triva games, will keep selling every year. Good job EA!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gypsysmurf
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent game, and one that could/should be a "poster child" for the power of the Wii. 
 Tons of trivia questions, and they're geared toward the player's age, so kids can play with their 
 parents and even grandparents, and everyone's on fairly equal ground!
  Several categories, so people who don't know as much about sports can make up for it with the science, 
 fashion, art, or any of the other category questions. Options of playing a quick game or let it 
 last a while. (I like to do several rounds of quick games.)
  
  I guarantee if you give this a try, you'll want to keep playing it over and over. I haven't seen 
 a small title game with this much replay value on the Wii yet, until now. $50 may be a bit much, 
 but wait a little while and get it on sale. If you can find it for $30-$40, this would be an excellent 
 value.
  
  This game's all multiplayer, and it does it superbly. The game itself may not be action packed 
 or have an announcer, but every time I play, it's the players making all the fun and excitement, 
 which makes for a fun and memorable experience. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
