-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: SNK Arcade Classics Vol. 1
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/snkarcadeclassicsvolume1/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Metal Slug is a great game.
 Several classic SNK fighters.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Most of the selections are middling to bad.
 None of the Wii control options are well suited to fighting games.
 You should not have to unlock moves lists.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 15, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 7.4, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 51 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SNK Playmore
Genre: Compilation
Date: Jul 29, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Some of the games in this collection are better than you remember, but many are worse. 

  The NeoGeo lives on in SNK Arcade Classics Vol. 1. This new collection for the Nintendo Wii features 
 16 classic arcade games of uneven quality for an affordable price. If you spent any amount of time 
 in arcades as a kid or a teen, this game will take you back. However, you might find that not all 
 of your memories are good ones.  

  Even though the title says this is a collection of classics, some of these games are actually just 
 old. Metal Slug is awesome, and Last Resort (a 2D side-scrolling space shooter) is pretty good, 
 too. But these games won't take you very long to beat, considering that both are set to unlimited 
 continues, and Metal Slug is already available elsewhere. The classic fighting games, including 
 Art of Fighting, Fatal Fury, King of Fighters '94, and Samurai Shodown, are also reasonable inclusions, 
 even though the GameCube controller isn't suited to fighting games and the remote is outright allergic 
 to them. If you want SNK Arcade Classics for the above fighting games, the classic controller is 
 your best bet if the PlayStation 2 version isn't an option.  

  The rest of the offerings aren't nearly as much fun to play at home as they were in the arcades. 
 Top Hunter, Super Sidekicks 3, King of the Monsters, Shock Troopers, Sengoku, Neo Turf Masters, 
 Magician Lord, Burning Fight, and Baseball Stars 2 are generally not worth playing. Neo Turf Masters, 
 Super Sidekicks 3, and Baseball Stars 2 are the easiest and most accessible games of the bunch; 
 you could burn a pleasant hour and a half of your time between those three. The rest are entertaining 
 only for the moments when you can tell that they are positively and intentionally killing you for 
 your quarters. They contain regular and rhythmic moments of unavoidable death: Enemies close in 
 from the top and bottom of the screen, and then they all shoot you at once. It is interesting to 
 see the guts of the arcade coin-sucking machine laid so bare, but not much fun. If anything, it's 
 anesthetic; you feel numb.  

           This is as good as it gets.      

  Burning Fight is exceptional for two reasons: It unabashedly rips off Final Fight, and it pits 
 you against absurd obstacles. For instance, at one point you have to fight a guy who is standing 
 in the bed of a pick-up truck, throwing molotov cocktails at you. You must punch the grill of the 
 truck, until it explodes. It's funny, but not real fun. Shock Troopers and Top Hunter share some 
 of the same style as Metal Slug, but neither one is nearly as good. Sengoku is the worst of all 
 the games; it looks terrible and isn't any fun to play. Finally, King of the Monsters is a bad 
 wrestling game, made worse by the fact that the monsters have to pin one another for a three count 
 to win. Who is doing the counting?  

  Whichever game you decide to play, SNK Arcade Classics lets you use the Wii Remote, GameCube controller, 
 or classic controller. Furthermore, there is a whole long list of achievements that you can accomplish 
 within the games, which in turn unlock art, videos, World Heroes, and finally, move lists for all 
 of the fighting games. Locking the moves lists is definitely an annoying choice on SNK's part, 
 especially if you're getting the collection only for the fighting games.  

  The presentation is fine; the games all look and sound as good as they ever did. The only thing 
 to nitpick is the fact that, when you're flipping through games in the main menu, you can see only 
 one at a time. It would be better if you had an actual list to look at and move through.  

  So there you have it. SNK Arcade Classics Vol. 1 is a collection of NeoGeo arcade games. A couple 
 of them are still good, a few others are all right, and the rest are pretty bad. If you aren't 
 sure whether or not this trip down memory lane is worth your money, it probably isn't. But if you 
 think a few bucks are worth a bunch of rounds with Final Fight, Samurai Shodown, and Metal Slug, 
 then you will get your money's worth. Stale popcorn and blueberry Icees not included.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: crooknook
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2009 12:48 pm PT
Review:  I'm a sucker for compilation disks. They offer many games at such a low price that you can't possibly 
 go wrong. I enjoyed the revisit to many of the arcade classics in this game. None are bad, many 
 are really impressive still today.
  
  You'll spend much more time on certain games than on others. I was shocked how addicting Baseball 
 Stars 2 was and have returned to play it multiple times. Metal Slug is by far the best game in 
 the lot but there are many other precious finds that you may have missed in the arcade. There's 
 much to be had with this disc. I'm not big on fighting games but there are many on this disc that 
 were a fun distraction. Some reviewers argue that unlimited continues bring this game down. I enjoy 
 the ability to continue and beat games that were purposely designed to gobble quarters. My philosophy 
 on these unlimited continues is..."it's payback time"! If you are a purist then simply don't accept 
 the continues and start over. See, everyone can be happy. 
  
  I didn't like the hurry up in the game options. Just like the arcade you only have seconds to make 
 decisions or the game goes on without you. My over 30 year old mind doesn't process this stuff 
 like when I was a teenager and I don't see why they didn't slow this down. I understand the reason 
 they had it set up this way back in the arcade... so they could make more $$$ from the guy or gal 
 waiting in line behind you. 
  
  You can pick this game up new for $19.99 and used for a few bucks cheaper. You are getting 16 games... that's 
 about a buck a game. How in the world can someone have a problem with that? I would have spent 
 $20.00 in quarters the first hour playing these in the arcade. Pick this up if you are a fan of 
 retro gaming or just want a bunch of new games to play. I won't be reselling this game. Now that 
 I have put some hours in it I'll be giving it a rest but I can see myself putting it back in periodically 
 for a fun stroll down memory lane. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asagea_888
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 3, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  I like SNK games, so this compilation of some of their Neo Geo titles is a pretty good effort to 
 introduce their old Neo Geo catalog. While games like King of the Monsters, World Heroes, King 
 of Fighters and Samurai Shodown are huge enticers, other games aren't really that fun.
  
  The games are emulated to near-perfection -- the only thing missing are those screens where they 
 introduce the player to the arcade button controls. Not a big deal, really, but it might have been 
 nice for the purists. Also, you can earn achievements by fulfilling certain conditions within the 
 games; in this case, medals categorized by gold, silver and bronze rankings. They're not just your 
 trophies -- they can unlock things like sound tests, artwork and move lists for the fighting games. 
 I'm not entirely sure why it's even necessary to go through trouble unlocking move lists for characters 
 in fighting games when one can just simply go to the internet and look them up, but I suppose just 
 earning the medal is fair enough.
  
  King of Fighters, Metal Slug, Samurai Shodown -- SNK included some of their biggest hits. Unfortunately, 
 they also included a few of their misfires. Burning Fight is a shameless Final Fight rip-off with 
 terrible hit detection. Magician Lord is a decent action game with punishing difficulty. The other 
 games are decent, but not as popular as SNK's big smash hits.
  
  It also might have added to the package if SNK included games they developed before the Neo Geo: 
 like Ikari Warriors and Alpha Mission. Perhaps they might consider those for their next volume. 
 
  
  Overall, SNK purists might like the roundabout selection of classics included in this package. 
 After all, this is only Volume 1! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Patch5129
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2008 4:14 am PT
Review:  When I was growing up, there was always a Neo-Geo machine in the local Dairy Queen and Red Robin. 
 I remember one of the cabinets having Blue's Journey, Top Hunter, and Metal Slug. It was always 
 entertaining to watch the demo videos of those game play while waiting for the food to be ready.
 
  
  So naturally when I heard that we would be getting Neo-Geo games for the VC on the Wii, I was very 
 excited, and couldnt wait to play some of the best Arcade type games all over again. But like others, 
 I knew that the size of these games was going to be a problem.
  
  All those concerns were blasted out of the water when I saw that this puppy was being released. 
 Just after hearing part of the line-up I already was going to get this. King of Monsters, Magician 
 Lord, Metal Slug, and Samurai Shodown. Then I was able to find some new favorites in some of the 
 ones I never played before, like Fatal Fury, Last Resort, and Turf Masters. 
  
  So I picked this up, plugged my Hori Fighting stick in, and just lost myself in pure Arcade goodness. 
 
  
  The great feeling playing with a joystick, the unlimited credits, the awesome sprites, I honestly 
 cannot recomned this game enough. If anyone has any interest in the Neo-Geo library, you really 
 NEED to get this.
  
  Need more convincing? Ok, this game costs 30 bucks brand new, you might be able to find a used 
 one. And you get 16 games (15, 1 is unlockable) Thats not even $2.00 (200 Wii points) a game. Now 
 if you were to wait to download these all from the VC, it would come to $144.00, with each game 
 being 900 points. 
  
  And just to cap it off, unlike the Metal Slug anthology collection, the Metal Slug game here supports 
 Classic Controller and Hori Fighting Stick.
  
  Final word, this game rocks, the collection is good, and the price is a steal, everyone needs this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scottins
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 2, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  This is a review of the Wii version. As I understand it there is a PS2 version but I don't know 
 if they are the same or slightly different.
  
  Anyway, I'll start off with that if you don't like retro game don't buy it. But, if you like retro 
 games this is a must have. At the dirt cheap price of 30 smackers your wallets wont take that much 
 of a beating. 
  
  First off, the one thing that struck me first was how many games it had. KOF 94, Burning Fight, 
 Metal Slug, Baseball Stars 2, Last Resort, Shock Troopers, Fatal Fury. That is just some of the 
 games. Second that impressed me was that the games were exactly the same except for some controller 
 menu inputs. I've played the original Burning Fight and Fatal Fury on a real Neo-Geo with my friend 
 Atom Duck, check is profile he knows a lot about classics games and such. 
  
  Some people might be thinking did they just have the games or did they add anything in what so 
 ever? Well, they added a cool achievement system where you will earn medals for doing certain things. 
 Like beating the game on Easy, normal, insane, etc. Also like making a double play or making a 
 birdie.
  
  Overall, you really have to be into games from the Neo-Geo to like this game. I would give this 
 8 Terry Bogards out of 10.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
