-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sonic and the Secret Rings
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/sonicrevolution/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Nice graphics and great level design.
 Excellent sense of speed.
 Varied challenges keep the game interesting.
 Dozens of multiplayer minigames.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Controls can be extremely frustrating.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 20, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.0, 53 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 2,893 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Sonic Team
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Feb 20, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Sonic and the Secret Rings delivers an excellent sense of speed and plenty of depth, and what's 
 just as impressive is that it makes Sonic fun again. 

  After a slew of disappointing and downright bad games, Sega's speedy hedgehog has finally returned 
 in a game worthy of the Sonic legacy. Sonic and the Secret Rings for the Wii takes the game back 
 to its high speed roots. While you can technically move in three dimensions, you're almost always 
 moving forward whether you want to or not, and lateral movement is limited to taking one or two 
 steps in either direction as you involuntarily sprint down a narrow path. Confined as it may be, 
 Sonic and the Secret Rings works because it lets you run at breakneck speeds through great-looking, 
 fantastical stages. The game is not without its share of frustrations, but Sonic and the Secret 
 Rings is certainly worth playing.  

          Spiked balls are the natural enemy of the hedgehog.     

  The story in Secret Rings 
 is a slight departure from the usual Sonic the Hedgehog setup. One day while Sonic is sleeping, 
 a genie visits him. The genie is from the book  Arabian Nights , which is being destroyed by an 
 evil genie known as Erazor. Apparently, if Erazor amasses enough power, he'll be able to leave 
 the book and come to life to terrorize Sonic's world. Sonic has to put a stop to Erazor's plans 
 by visiting seven different fantasy worlds to collect magic rings that can be used to restore  
 Arabian Nights .  

  You play the game as Sonic and travel to seven fantasy worlds (plus one tutorial world) . You'll 
 travel to a dinosaur world, a floating ruin, a pirate level, and more. Each level has several different 
 challenges for you to complete. The first challenge is simply to run from the beginning of the 
 level to the end, but you'll eventually unlock much more interesting challenges. Some challenges 
 require you to collect a certain number of rings, finish a level before a timer runs out, make 
 it through a stage without killing a single enemy, or just kill a boss enemy. These different challenges 
 add a lot of variety to the game, so even though you'll play each level 10 times or more, you'll 
 find a unique experience each time.  

  The controls in Sonic and the Secret Rings are simple enough to pick up, but they can also be incredibly 
 frustrating at times. You hold the Wii Remote sideways and tilt it left and right to move Sonic 
 side to side. The 1 button makes Sonic stop and the 2 button makes him jump. With such simple controls, 
 you'd think it would be a piece of cake to guide the hedgehog through each level. The problem is 
 that most of the time you don't have direct control of Sonic's forward movement. Sonic automatically 
 runs as fast as he can, and it's your job to make him jump and weave over and between obstacles. 
 With all that forward momentum, the trick is to time your jumps and sidesteps just right to avoid 
 the hazards in your path. That isn't easy, because the game moves so fast that you'll rarely have 
 time to react during your first run through a level. After you've died and retried a dozen times 
 and have the layout of the level memorized, you might be able to survive. The amount of trial and 
 error required for most of the challenges is a bit extreme, and it will definitely try your patience. 

  In addition to running, jumping, and grinding on rails, Sonic can attack enemies by jumping in 
 the air and homing in on them. When you jump, you'll automatically target the nearest enemy, and 
 while you're in the air, you can quickly move the Wii Remote forward to home in on the enemy and 
 kill it. You can chain these kills together to clear large gaps or wipe out large groups of enemies 
 without ever touching the ground. The homing attack does make combat extremely easy, but it's used 
 primarily as a way to get from one point to another anyway, so enemies could just as well be springboards 
 or floating platforms instead.  

  As you complete challenges, you earn experience points and unlock new skills. These special skills 
 do everything from increasing your maximum speed to giving you bonus rings. Before each challenge, 
 you can equip these skills to your skill ring. You can only equip a certain number of skills, though, 
 depending on how many skill points you have. You can have multiple skill rings set up so that you 
 can adapt your skill set to fit any challenge. Usually though, you never have to bother with skills. 
 A few of the skills are useful, but most of them are pointless. After all, you don't need to equip 
 any skills to run fast and jump, which is just about all you ever need to do in this game.  

  The single-player game feels pretty sizable, although you could easily finish it in a weekend. 
 There is a multiplayer game here, as well, which, as you might have guessed if you've played any 
 other Wii game, involves playing dozens of different minigames that make creative use of the Wii 
 Remote. This portion of the game lets you play against three friends or computer players in a series 
 of minigames. The minigames each put the Wii Remote to use in ways different than the main game. 
 You'll have to paddle a canoe, spear fruit with a sword, swing a large ball on a chain, shoot balloons, 
 chop wood, and perform many, many more gestures with the remote. Most of the minigames are fun 
 for at least the first couple of times you play them, but they aren't very different from the plethora 
 of minigames found in other Wii titles.  

          Some of the worlds in this game look great, like this floating ruin.     

  The graphics 
 are great in Sonic and the Secret Rings. Each level is large and has a great sense of scale, with 
 huge dinosaurs, pirate ships, corkscrews, loops, and other structures to run on. The visuals are 
 sharp and colorful, and you'll have a great time just watching Sonic run because the game provides 
 the same thrilling sense of speed that made the Sonic games appealing in the first place. Impressively, 
 the game keeps pace just fine as you fly through each level, without any slowdown throughout the 
 game. Each level has a specific, usually high-energy theme that fits the action well. The tunes 
 are so incredibly cheesy that they are funny, and they seem to be a perfect match for Sonic's early-'90s 
 sense of style. The English voice acting during the lengthy cutscenes is awful, but at least there's 
 an option to listen to the Japanese voices instead.  

  Whether you remember the glory days of Sega's mascot or are just looking for a new Wii game to 
 bring home, Sonic and the Secret Rings is a solid choice. The gameplay is simple but challenging, 
 and there's something incredibly satisfying about running really, really fast. The minigames aren't 
 anything special, but together with the single-player game, they round out the package nicely. 
 If you're looking for a game that provides a lot of thrills and enough depth to sustain them, you 
 can't go wrong with Sonic and the Secret Rings.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (364 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: JebranRush
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2009 7:09 pm PT
Review:  It was 1991 when the world first said hello to Sonic and since then, many great sequels have spawned. 
 Although recently Sonic has been in a rut of sorts. It seems Sega has had quite a bit of trouble 
 taking 2D Sonic and letting him roam in the free 3D world unlike Nintendo mascots. It seems that 
 Sonic was outrun by everybody else. Now finally it seems by making it an on-rails game Sonic has 
 finally picked himself up and is ready to run again.
  
  The point of the game is to zip through various levels getting the fastest time whilst avoiding 
 enemies and various obstacles. Although this is the main story, there are 100 missions for you 
 to complete. They are indeed not all basic concepts as getting to the end of the level as fast 
 as you can. There are many things for Sonic to be doing. Some missions ask you to collect a certain 
 amount of rings in the fastest time possible or finish the course without collecting a single ring! 
 Some ask you to race against a spirit, and others want you to defeat a certain number of enemies.
 
  
  If you were to have finished the course in a good time, you will be rewarded a medal. A gold medal 
 automatically unlocks one of the MASSIVE amount of unlockables, silver medals need to be collected 
 before unlocking something, and same goes for bronze although you can only unlock certain things 
 with a bronze or silver medal. And of course which medal you get is determined how fast you completed 
 the mission objective.
  Sega and Sonic team have also introduced a new element to Sonic and the Secret Rings. They have 
 added certain RPG elements. How good you do in a mission determines how many experience points 
 you get. These experience points, like any RPG, level Sonic up. As Sonic levels up, he learns new 
 abilities as there are about 100 or so. Some examples of what these abilities allow Sonic to do 
 are:
  
  Go faster
  Brake faster
  Grind faster
  Gain more experience on brakes
  Increase pearl collecting ability
  
  And many more. These skills are quite helpful along the 
 adventure as they can make many missions quite a bit easier. One skill called the splash jump allows 
 Sonic to flip over walls if he collides into one in midair. This is extremely useful in saving 
 Sonic from falling into pits and making jumps as he can just splash jump along the edge.
  
  Although there are many skills, not all of them can be used at the same time. To maintain which 
 ones Sonic will use, you can organize them in one of four rings Sonic has. These can be customized 
 before missions. This adds a much needed amount of depth to the Sonic series and it's truly a welcome 
 addition.
  
  Of course, there is indeed a mutiplayer mode although it is a minigame collection. It invites you 
 and your friends to pick up a Wii remote and start playing games. This, despite some problems, 
 are quite entertaining and you should have a good amount of fun with your friends. More minigames 
 and an extra minigame mode (yes just one) can be unlocked via singleplayer mode. To do so you collect 
 things scattered across most levels called fire souls. These also unlock more characters and such.
 
  
  Overall the gameplay is great and fixes many problems that previous 3D Sonic games failed to accomplish. 
 The main problem being the lack of speed. Oh and of course, for the most part, fixes up many camera 
 issues.
  
  There are downsides to the game too. Some missions are setup faulty and make it impossible to attempt 
 at your first time unless you get around the problem by a fluke. These problems are things like 
 enemy spawn spots and some level build problems.
  
  So far, graphics are one of the best seen on the Wii. With lots of detail to enemies, backgrounds, 
 and such make this a pretty game. Sonic also seems to be more furry looking as you can see many 
 little hairs across him. He also looks shinier as well as everything else. The ground is a little 
 washed out but since you'll be going so fast, you won't be able to notice it.
  As well the frame rate never dips despite a lot of action going on. Explosions, lots of enemies, 
 and other things don't stop the game from keeping a nice and steady frame rate. The games art direction 
 is also well done and it keeps with the Sonic style of games.
  
  The music to the game is fairly interesting. It mixes traditional Arabian music and puts a rock 
 spin onto it. Even so some of these songs can't be saved as the singers are not the greatest out 
 there.
  The voice acting is where the main problem is. The voices fit for each character, it's just that 
 the dialogs are fairly exaggerated.
  Sound effects are well done and everything seems in place. Lips move to voice actors and so on.
 
  
  There is a lot to do in this game. If you zip through the story it will probably only take you 
 7-10 hours. But with so many missions to do, so much to unlock and collect, and to get all gold 
 medals, the game will last you a long, long time. Although it can be sometimes a little discouraging 
 to try some of the harder levels and get gold medals in them. So while there is a lot to do in 
 this game, you might not necessarily not want to pick the Wii remote for a while.
  
  This truly is a good game but with a little more time, the game's difficulty settings and obstacle 
 placing problems could have been fixed but even so this is a very enjoyable game. It's definitely 
 not for everyone as many people will be discouraged by the difficulty but with so many games out 
 there that practically let you win, it's hard not to avoid this to be challenged.
  Wii remote controls are extremely easy to use and it's very responsive. There are no problems with 
 it. Turning left and right is as easy as tilting the remote. Jumping requires you to press a button 
 and braking is the same. Using the homing attack requires you to jump and flick the remote toward 
 the screen a bit. The only control issue there is that trying to back up, in most places, the camera 
 doesn't work with you.
  
  Although the game starts off with Sonic moving at a slugs pace, try the game out and progress through 
 it and see if you like it and after a while Sonic will be going so fast that you won't believe 
 it. I recommend it if you're looking for a nice challenge or want to experience some satisfying 
 speed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicthemegaman
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 10:36 pm PT
Review:  As a hard-core Sonic fan, it's hard to find a Sonic game I don't like but, as impossible as it 
 seems, Sonic and Secret Rings manages to make a 3D Sonic game feel like a job. As beautifully constructed 
 as it looks, Sonic's Arabian adventure is simply aggreviating to say the least.
  
  The story this time around is that a genie named Sharah needs Sonic's help to stop an evil genie 
 called Erazor Djinn from taking over the world of the Arabian Nights. Sharah transports Sonic into 
 the storybook and faces Erazor Djinn head-to-head just to end up cursed with a magical flame that, 
 when diminished, ends Sonic's life. The story is pretty good though the presentation of the cutscenes 
 seem rather dull. Granted, the cutscenes are made to look like storybook pages but, this concept 
 isn't well executed leaving the cutscenes looking flat and uninteresting in general. Other than 
 that, the story is solid though, it isn't winning any Perlitzer Prize.
  
  The games music, as always, is entertaining. There isn't much to say about the soundtrack in Sonic 
 and the Secret Rings that you haven't already heard about any other Sonic game. If any, the soundtrack 
 can at least be complemented on having better music for the action stages compared to Sonic 06's 
 dull background music.
  
  The gameplay is where Secret Rings makes a distinct decline in polish. What I found rather ridiculous 
 is that though recent Sonic games haven't had picture perfect controls, some of the game design 
 choices made are so bad, it's almost as they tried to make the game a burden. The main "Reach the 
 Goal" mission is easily the best mission for each stage as the extra missions include "Finish with 
 No Rings", "Don't collect any Pearls", and "Don't Die". These surprisngly odd missions are then 
 topped with equally odd controls that revolve around Sonic being able to run on his own. Knowing 
 Sonic's speed, having less control over the way he runs is initially bad. This leads to Sonic being 
 harder to use the faster he becomes as the game has the gull to introduce a leveling system, meaning 
 Sonic's speed must be leveled up. It's silly cause when the game grants you the ablility to "Speed 
 Break" or run really fast as it is, you'll soon realize that Speed Break only helps some of the 
 time if at all since using it at the wrong time could lead to instant death but don't worry, Sonic 
 has infinite lives in this game so you'll die an infinite amount of times. It is pretty easy to 
 Speed Break off a cliff or into a spiked ball as Sonic cannot be properly controlled during this 
 outburst as you may have already guessed. With missions like "Don't break any pots", Secret Rings 
 focuses on speed while asking you to slow down just to survive. The two objectives don't mix well 
 and the games unlockable content is sealed away by even crazier conditions for achievement like 
 "Defeat Erazor below lvl 25 using five different dark ablilites". What's sad is that when the game 
 actually works in favor of the player, it pretty much boils down to an automated Sonic simulator. 
 Not even tilting the Wiimote left and right to move Sonic could shake the feeling that I was watching 
 the game more than anything. Since the game's story mode is rather short, the poor design choices 
 made for the game's extra content make more of an impact than in any other Sonic game. Multiplayer 
 is the closest thing to salvation and even that is plagued by unresponsive Wiimote controls. Secret 
 Rings isn't a mess, it's just very aggreviating at times and, despite its appearance, is not a 
 game for young children. The difficulty level will haunt the young ones to no end.
  
  In the end, there is some fun to be had in Secret Rings but, it takes to long to long to have it. 
 There were times I felt like I was forcing myself to play the game simply because it was Sonic. 
 Secret Rings is ok but, you'd probably be better off with one of Sonic's older 3D titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vivaldi1000
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Perhaps This review is invalid as I only played the game for about 2 hours, over the period of 
 time that I have had it.
  You spend your whole time running forward. The camera is ofcourse behind you making it very hard 
 to predict where the enemies or items ahead are. You spend much of the game dieing as well, as 
 it is almost absolutely down to luck that you don't fall down a chasm or something. To get over 
 that chasm you must memorize the course and through trial and error you will eventually get over. 
 
  
  The beauty of the Landscape is not appreciated and neither is Kenichi Tokoi's excellent music, 
 simply because the game is so synthetic.
  
  I have no care for the story either as the game is too annoying to complete anyway. This game is 
 a let down for Sonic and a let down for the Nintendo Wii.
  
  - Happy Gaming -
  
  Vivaldi1000 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gardevoir_1993
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 8, 2009 1:04 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Some Party mode is fun
  
  The Bad: Sonic has been annihilated by new-fangled controls and levels, party mode is an uncreative 
 rip of Mario Party.
  
  Full Review: Completed and dead in 3 days. Simple. How was it so bad? Well, take your pick: The 
 new control system has proven the main catalyst for the obliteration of the Sonic that we know 
 and love; the levels have NO side to side movement at all for a start. the enemies don't even attack 
 except for one in, like, 200. Effectively, Sonic has been turned into an easy solo race game with 
 completely unimaginative and uninspired missions. As for the story, well, any not-so-retarded 4-year-old 
 could have dreamt that up. The one redeeming quality is Party mode. The minigames themselves can 
 be fun, but suffer from too much repetition in the control system and the modes are crap too, so 
 it amounts to very little and is nothing compared to Mario Party. In conclusion: this game has 
 to be the biggest train wreck of a good franchise I've ever had the displeasure of "playing" ie. 
 boring myself to death. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason20091
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2009 7:33 pm PT
Review:  First let me say this game is a lot of fun to play but it does have some faults. One of the best 
 things about this game is that the sense of speed is captured very well. It is very fun to race 
 threw the levels at breakneck speeds. Some other good things about this game include very nice 
 graphics and the ability to customize Sonic's attributes such as his speed and agility. The mini 
 games are also a nice addition but they are nothing special.
  
  Now on to the bad things about this game. First the story is very lackluster and you will find 
 yourself skipping the cut scenes. The most frustrating thing about this game is the controls. You 
 hold the wii mote sideways and tilt it left or right to move sonic side to side. You use the one 
 button to break and two button to jump. The controls are easy to pick up but don't work as well 
 as they should. The game is also very hard because Sonic is always moving forward usually very 
 fast and you will not have much time to respond to hazards in your way. This will cause a lot of 
 frustrating deaths. However each of these faults can be overcome with practice.
  
  In conclusion this is a very fun game to play despite its faults and should definitely be checked 
 out. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rinnegan_Fan3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 3:28 pm PT
Review:  This is the game that I am currently playing, I love it. The game is challenging, even after having 
 to get used to the game's unique controls. The game may not seem so fun at the start, but that 
 is because you need to level up and equip more skills to get that high speed action and smoothness, 
 as you can also see by the average score and Gamespot's review, this game is something!! You should 
 go buy it today, it's cheap.
  
  Story: A new way of displaying the story, how intersting. The story is funny, interesting, fun, 
 and challenging. What makes it challenging is that you don't always know what mission to do to 
 unlock another, or what mission to beat to progress in the story, besides the obvious boss battle 
 missions. {5/5}
  
  Music: Music with lyrics? Where'd this idea come from, only other game that I own/owned in the 
 Sonic series that had lyrical music was SA2B! I like it. This game also follows a reputation I, 
 as well as others for having awesome/excellent soundtracks in most of the games they release. {5/5}
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are smooth and excellent. {5/5}
  
  Time Value: The time value of the game is great, it is a fun game to play, even after the fact 
 that each time you beat a mission the exp points you gain toward your level decrease each time. 
 There's tons of stuff to unlock, much of which is mysterious and you randomly unlock it. Fire souls, 
 siver medals, gold medals are also needed to unlock stuff in the special book. {5/5}
  
  Overall: This game is freakin awesome, you should try out this game. I would give this game a 5/5 
 (10/10) if there was less frustration, but there is only a little after you master the basic controls. 
 The other frustrations are little, such as the Find the Pterosaur egg mission. (Any help on that, 
 please PM me) Thanks for reading my review, and why not read another of mine if you like the format 
 of my reviews.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokelink17
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 11:32 am PT
Review:  Class: Don't waste your time
  
  Good: Graphics and story line.
  
  Bad: The controls of this game suck. The monsters are all the same thing, not like before were there 
 is different monsters. And then you find out Egg man is a good guy? WTF! You really start missing 
 the good old sonic. Sega has been messing up big time. Honestly there was not one second were i 
 knew what i was doing! Some levels you can put the remote down and beat the hole level! This game 
 is running and jumping. Putt more puzzle in to it Sega. don't buy ,don't ,buy ,don't buy. believe 
 me it sucks! ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok... just 
 wasting space sorry i am lazy lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol.
  
  --
  Tough critic member #1
  to join please contact : manuel_moquete@hotmail. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxXArIaxXx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 10:19 pm PT
Review:  I got a Wii 4 x-mas and with it I got Wii sports (obviously) and sonic and the secret rings when 
 I 1st played it i didn't really have a clue bout the controls and everything so i had no idea about 
 the old school way 2 use a Wii remote it really takes getting used to controlling sonic but after 
 the easy start off levels you adventuly get the hang of it but this game isn't for 1st timers!
 
  This game has the weariest story 2 play along to about the Arabian nights (exactly like Aladdin) 
 you have a fairy girl i think shes a genie but she follows you around everywhere helping you, little 
 bit hard to follow but a gripping story once you get the hang of what's going on it's a really 
 good challenging game not something to easy and very fun (but must hang on 2 the Wii remote tight 
 it's very easy to get pissed off!) This game has the best graphics I have ever seen on a game everything 
 so detailed it's brilliant! And as people are always complaining about they want more speed in 
 sonic games like there used to well now its back! You can fly along the levels or take it easy 
 be safe and go slow (much easier if you don't want to die!) This is defiantly 1 of the best sonic 
 games so far 8.5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirrelboyfan
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 14, 2009 5:21 am PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings is a game made only for the Nintendo Wii. Sonic wakes up one morning 
 and suddenly there is a "Weird" lady. Now Sonic has to find Seven World rings, which are considered 
 the "Secret Rings". In the Party Mode, to me It's really fun, though I have to skip over to the 
 weaknesses. That Kri Ma Dmjn thing appears too much in Party mode. Plus, alot of the music is used 
 too much in alot of minigames. But the good things is that you can play the games separately in 
 the World Library. Here, you can check the records of each player, plus how many times you've won 
 party games with that character. Collecting Fire Souls in adventure mode unlocks stuff in the party 
 mode. The motion sensitive controls on this game are messed up. You have to use the Wii Remote 
 for all the controls, not the buttons.
  
  But fair enough, Secret Rings gets an 8 out of 10 Great. Though I don't consider players to buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedrobo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 7:27 am PT
Review:  A sonic game for the wii and just what the Dr. ordered too! This game is great and is one of the 
 best of the 3-d sonic's out there! I think that this game is the best 3-d sonic sence Sonic adventure 
 DX directors cut! This game has depth, varied levels, minigames (LOTS of minigames) , and a new story 
 other than eggman blowing stuff up. Seriously People will be saying years from now "hey remember 
 that sonic game where you went into this book and fought an evil djinn?" "yeah I love that game!"
 
  the only downside I can see is that the controls are a little annoying.
  Another great thing about this game is the graphics! They look real and it looks like your in a 
 book and in a desert! It's just all so visually appealing! Some minigames can be a little hard 
 and frustrating at times, same with the challenges. The dialog is also fun and entertaining unlike 
 most sonic games it is not trying to be witty it just is funny.
  In conclusion sonic and the secret rings dose really hold secrets and surprises for those willing 
 to play it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicr2u
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 30, 2009 4:23 am PT
Review:  Okay, so you just got a WII, sit down on the couch and get playing. Well, if you got some boring 
 game where you don't stand up or anything. Me? I highly reccomend you to play Sonic and the Secret 
 Rings. For his first WII game, it's an awesome game! Also, if you think it's just a sit-down game, 
 think again. You're playing it for another reason. Homing Attack controls are where you plant your 
 feet, and push the WII remote in the direction the target is. THAT makes the game a lot better. 
 Now it's on my Now Playing list because when my brother (Gamedude6123) hogs the WII, he's playing 
 it on party mode! So- what? You don't know why I'm mentioning Party Mode? Oh, that's where most 
 of my friends and family come to enjoy the hedgehog fun. So, most of you have a WII, and wanna 
 play this after the review, buy it, BUY it, BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamannt123
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2009 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Well, I got a Wii for christmas so I'll be bringing you gaming reviews for games on this new system. 
 Sweet! To start off, sonic is making a comeback! Actually, the only bad sonic games were shadow 
 the hedgehog and sonic the hedgehog for the 360 and PS3 (or so I've heard...) , but this one is lots 
 of fun.
  
  The story is sonic's sleep being interrupted by Sharrah, a genie from inside the land of the Arabian 
 Nights who is in trouble. An all-powerful genie, the Erazor Djinn, has taken the words off the 
 pages and wrecking that world. It's up to sonic as a race against time threatens for disaster!
 
  
  The controls take some getting used to, seeing as how you play with the wii remote tipped on its 
 side. You tilt left and right to move sonic, press and hold 2 to jump, 1 to brake, jerk it forward 
 for a homing attack, and various other controls make playing an interesting experience. As you 
 progress the story, you learn various skills that you can equip to a ring when you gain enough 
 experience. These skills make you move easier, give you advantages, or increase your power in different 
 ways. You also have a series of missions to choose from. Once you complete one, more open up for 
 you to complete. Sometimes you will unlock things to view in the secret book in the main menu. 
 Doing so is tricky, but nice if you manage to. Multiplayer is nicely done as well. The only problem 
 is ring loss because every time you get hit, you lose 20 rings. This can become slightly annoying 
 but easy enough to overlook from all the good stuff.
  
  The graphics for sonic are terriffic and he looks better than ever. The environments you go through 
 are open and clear, giving you a nice view most of the time. While you play through these environments, 
 there is no glitching or slow down, so no worry there. The loading time is suprisingly quick as 
 well.
  The music can be catchy at times too.
  
  Overall, I liked the control scheme and it was tricky, but fun. Most people could have a good time 
 with this game and I recommend it for everyone!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jop01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret rings is the first game in the new Sonic Storybook spinoff. The next being 
 Sonic and the Blask Knight. This is a great game. 
  Story:
  The story is about Sonic who somehow finds a giant ring on his coffee table after he awakes from 
 his nap. A genie named Shara comes out and says that her world of the Arabian Nights is being destroyed 
 by the evil Erazor Djinn.
  Gameplay:
  The game takes another new direction in the Sonic series by making this game on rails. There are 
 many different missions to do, but the ones I liked most were the ones where you just head to the 
 goal. But there are other missions like collecting a certain number of rings or racing a pixie 
 named Uhu.
  Controls:
  To make Sonic move left or right, tilt the Wii remote in the according direction. To do a quick 
 jump tap 2 and to do a higher jump hold 2 and release to jump. Hold the 1 button to brake. When 
 in the air, jut the Wiimote forward to do a homing attack on an enemy.
  Sound: Music Wise:
  As per any Sonic game, the soundtrack is superb. I even have the main theme on my MP3 player.
 
  Sound: Effect Wise:
  There are realistic footstep sounds, classic ring sound effects, and realistic water sounds.
 
  Sound: Voice Wise:
  The 4kids voice actors return again. I never thought that they were that bad, and only Sonic has 
 any voice problems in this game. He sometime sounds very wimpy.
  Graphics:
  The cutscenes are done with illustrations and look okay, but the in game graphics really push the 
 Wii. The game is beautiful, the water looks very real. Only one problem: Sonic looks a bit blocky.
 
  Overall:
  This is a great game with good controls, great graphics, and fun gameplay. 
  The game will take you about 15 hours to beat and it also has replayability in the form of getting 
 better ranks, new missions, and getting all of the fire souls in each level to unlock extras. Go 
 ahead and give it a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sagax03
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2008 2:32 am PT
Review:  A pretty good adventure for sonic i got low hopes for this game but turned out it was great afterall 
 my first system was the genesis i got it when i was 4 when the CD just came out but my parents 
 just thought it was inapropiate because of 1 single game a vampire like game anyway i got 1 and 
 am a sonic fan since it was my second video game ever (first was a football 1 lol) lets see how 
 the game overalled.
  
  
  Story-Eggman classic take over the world wasnt in this one infact he was a king in this one O. O 
 so sonic gets sucked into a book and is asked to save the world because a genie called shara needs 
 help and a genie called the erazor wants to take the books universe and his own universe he then 
 has to save the world.
  B-Great (if any of you ever read my other reviews you should know i use quotes in my grades sadly 
 i got tired of that so im just going by gamespot scores) .8/10
  
  Gameplay- in this game controls are on rails and are simple holding it horizontaly was a little 
 weird wouldve been better with the nunchuck but oh well sonic runs ,jumps ,stops and uses a homing 
 attack thats it in this game and that what makes it so fun sonic is the only playable sonic character 
 which i dont like because i love shadow and knuckles fun treasure hunts. infact shadows not even 
 in this game not alot are only tails and knuckles are the classics and they are not even playable 
 anyway its also RPG like because you can equip numerouse abilitys with the gain-gauge i call it 
 that of course. sonic also uses platmorming like elements but also sustains his sence of speed with 
 quick time thinking and air abilitys though moving the controler can be hazerdous in mid-air. overall 
 its good.
  B-great.8.5/10
  
  Graohics/Design-there pretty good for the wii but are to darkly colored.
  B-Great.8/10
  
 
  Voice actors-Annyoing horrbile but can be tolerated.
  C-fair-6/10
  
  a new thing in my reviews-
  Multiplayer-Party games ITS PART TIME games you will enjoy alot but 
 the wiimote CAN make things frustrating sometimes (Multiplayer will only matter 10 % of the review 
 so it isnt big, i never explained this so story will matter 20% .gameplay 50 %, Graphics 10%, and 
 voice acting 5% the other 5% is my opinion) .
  A-Superb-9/10.
  
  overall
  B-great-8
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jakeiiii
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 4:06 am PT
Review:  This game was the first on the Wii and will be the only one of it's kind. It works out well but 
 it wasn't the kind of Sonic we want.
  
  Story = 9
  The story of this game is unique compare to the rest of the games, and we will be expecting a sequel 
 close to this soon. It is from an Arabian story book, much like Aladin and the magic lamp. It works 
 out well for the game and is quite interesting. The cutscenes of this game are like little story 
 boards with moving pictures, again another unique feature. The intro and ending however are 3D 
 with the best graphics on the Wii.
  
  Gameplay = 7.9
  This is where the game doesn't earn it's perfect 10. The good thing is that you can feel the speed 
 and movement of Sonic by using the wii remote like a steering wheel. This works if you just want 
 to go through the level at average speed but if you are trying to get a gold medal or just want 
 to speed through then you're not in luck. The controls can sometimes be too responsive or over 
 reactive. It's impossible to stand still or move back without taking damage or dying.
  
  Presentation = 10
  The levels work perfectly for a fast paced game like this and has many obstacles 
 to overcome. This is one of the most exciting aspects of the game.
  
  Lasting appeal = 8.7
  The story mode itself lasts upto 10 hours or so by doing 3 or 4 missions 
 for each levelm each lasting upto 4 or 5 mins. Getting the gold medals, unlocking the extra missions, 
 aquiring new skills and unlocking secret artwork or videos can take upto 20 hours or so, depending 
 on how good you are. These these are frustratingly difficult to get making the lasting appeal not 
 so fun.
  
  (The rest of this review will not count towards the final score)
  
  Graphics = 9.4
  The graphics on this game are superb, on the levels the graphics are close to 
 the pefect graphics in the 3D cutscenes and from a certain viewpoint, it almost looks real. The 
 other cutscenes are drawn so it's hard to rate, the drawings are brilliant but not accurate to 
 the 3D models. Overal the graphics are brilliant.
  
  Voice acting = 10
  There is nothing bad to say about the voices, everything is on time and they suit each character.
 
  
  Overall = 8.5
  This game deserves to be played by all Sonic fans but beware that if you get frustrated easily 
 then this is not the game for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkFlareKin
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 18, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings has a good story plot, the levels look fun, and they actually are, but 
 the bad thing is that you cannot enjoy them compltely, mainly because of one thing, the CONTROLS. 
 No matter what you do, Sonic is always moving (unless you are holding the brake buttons) , and truth 
 be told, that sucks. You want ot enjoy the level in all of its complexity, not just run straight 
 through it. Also, when you try turning, Sonic is sometimes unresponsive. The boss battles are fun 
 though, and the story plot keeps you on your toes, but sometimes its just so unclear that you do 
 not know what to do. Even though you are in a story book land, the game uses the Sonic characters, 
 such as Tails and Eggman (no, he is actually not the bad guy) in a way that makes you think you 
 are reading a new version of the Arabian Knights (no, I have never read it before) . Something good 
 about this game is that the levels have a new challenge for you to complete, and those are fun, 
 though they are sometimes really complex. The music for the levels is amazing, and the main music 
 is amazing. Besides the controls, the game is pretty good, but still, I have a feeling that if 
 the controls were the same as the ones for the Gamecube, the game would have been so much better, 
 but still, by my standards, being the first Wii game, and probably the first to ever have the Wii 
 remote used sideways, it was good. I still prefer Advanture 2 Battle over this, but still. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoit
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 25, 2009 5:39 pm PT
Review:  So I rented this game at movie gallery and rushed to my room and played this game and I slowly 
 started to relized that this game
  was bad. Not only it was bad.
  IT SUCKED!!!!!
  
  IT HAS GOOD MUSIC BUT WHOOPY DUE
  but the game has such bad controls and teribble level design 
 and why do I have to only go straight any way huh?
  On older sonic games you didn't have to
  just think if you were playing super mario bros on the 
 nes and you could only go striaght
  It would drive you insane
  or make that super mario bros the lost levels
  and what you loved from sonic and eggman fighting 
 has been strppied out of this game
  and this feels so shallow to
  because you have to go back and forth thorgh each world
  just like sonic unleashed but that was 
 a good sonic game and i give it a 8.5/10
  anyways you got the minigames and wow... I rather be dead than play them because there just STUPID 
 and the computers cheat
  (they should be disguified!)
  and the voice acting sounds like a bunch of drunk people
  what i mean that the voices sound bad 
 and not enough effort.
  and the story is just weak (wheres the skinny boy from the book too?)
  so as you can see I was 
 really exicted for this game but it wasn't worth the wait... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jessiwb
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  I am a suspect to review a game from sega, because I am big old fan of it. Until today I am holding 
 my dreamcast, and looking for someday get a Saturn. I mean, yes, I like sega. 
  But, what sega is doing with its franchises, its really disappointing me, especially with sonic 
 one. 
  The Dreamcast's sonics are okay, I enjoy playing them. Even the unleashed (I play the ps2 version...) 
 its so so. But this one, could be named as one of the worst sonic game ever. Sense of speed? I 
 don't fell even like playing something when I play these. I mean, sonic walks by himself? What 
 do I do? 
  Sega, why are you doing these to me? I mean, mario got old, and the new games still offering me 
 something. Mario galaxy is nice to play. Mario kart is pretty fun to play too. But this one, the 
 racer sonic game from saturn are just crap. Even sonic riders isn't too good. 
  My note to who is getting these game : Search. Don't get this game thinking this is a sonic hit, 
 or a great game as the gamespot's page shows. If you could even play it before...
  Still waiting for the revenge of the sonic the hedghog 1,2,3 era. Sometimes I ask myself if I will 
 be alive in these revenge day...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blazakenki
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 7, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Well the graphics were good, the story was... ok at best but come on, sonic helping some girl from 
 a storybook i think sega could have done better, i mean really "help!! our story book is going 
 to be destroyed!!" "check your local library for a new place to live" i mean come on, and the gameplay, to 
 be frank, when your "in the groove" its fun but the second the annoying controls start, resist breaking 
 your TV youl find yourself doing what the game asks but failing... i relieved my anger by stomping 
 on the floor with all my might...... several times, but besides that, the minigames are very fun 
 with friends, the levels are really well done, sonic is well made, but the controls make me give this 
 game a 6.0, i would'int say buy it (i did) id say rent it because your just gonna be doing about 20missions (all 
 very frustrating some fun but most frustrating) , in EACH WORLD, i mean youl have 2,3 tops story 
 missions and then 17 other missions in ONE world are just random, i know sonic is about level after 
 level, but they really over did it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chocolate1325
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  While Sonic has had lot of ups and downbs after Sonic the Hedgehog 2006 many of us were dissapointed 
 but when Secret of the Rings came out it was a nice return to form.
  
  Story
  
  Welll the story begins Sonic is sleeping and comes across a book and a gneie names Sharara tells 
 him that an evil genie called the Erazor Djinn is destroying the pages out of the Arbian Nights. 
 Sonic is then transported in the book and is hit with a flame by the Erazor Djinn saying if the 
 flame goes out it is over for Sonic. He is also told that he is a sacrifice as well.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The game is played using just the Wii mote and you move the remote left and right 
 in which direction you want to go. You defeat enemies with a homing attack and to jump you hold 
 down the 2 button to perform a jump the longer you hold it down the higher you jump and if you 
 see a red cursor you thrust the Wii mote forward to do an attack which I felt was a nice idea. 
 The game has a few nice missions and a tutorial to learn the basic techniques. The game can be 
 challeneging espcally the bosses. So whats the downside to the gameplay well the fact you are always 
 going forward and that most levels can be hard to get through straight away but I do like the idea 
 you don't have to worry about running out of lives. I also like the idea of being able to have 
 abilites and you can customise your abilities and have them for different levels. I like the idea 
 of speed break if you press up you go into a very fast speed and time break which is slow so you 
 can get past obstacles better but you need enoughorb power to be able to perform them. The cutscnes 
 are not that good though.
  
  Sound and graphics
  
  The sound is okay but can get annoying epscially that annoying genie but one thing I do like is 
 the graphics it is a very nice looking game for a Wii game.
  
  
  Lastablity
  
  There is about a good 20 to 40 hours you will spend playing this game and if you have friends you 
 might want to play some mini games in the party section but that is a bit pointless but some might 
 like it. There are tons of missions to do even if you complete the game but achieveing gold medals 
 is hard.
  
  Overall Opinion 
  
  This is not a bad game at all. It is very fun because you are only playing as Sonic the Hedgehog 
 and it is what a Sonic game is about. While the story is a bit off and that some levels can be 
 annoying first few tries it is a very solid title worth playing. Overall it is certainly better 
 than most 3D Sonic games that have come out.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adrianjrxx
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  this is a good game, because it shows some of sonic's speed and has a good story. Also it does 
 not includes eggman like boss now is a new boss named Erazor that is like a genie or something. 
 This a good game and has a good multiplayer mode that is like a party when you can play over 40 
 different and fun minigames and select 8 different characters to play them, just like mario party 
 but in sonic's version with a lot of modes to play the minigames. Also to them you can use the 
 gamecube controller. This a good game and i think that a must buy. Also it introduces a new transformation 
 for sonic called the dark spine sonic that is awesone and for playing the game you make a complete 
 use of the wiimote like a wheel to move sonic and to make spindashes and to make more new actions 
 that sonic have in this game of sonic that was made exclusively for the nintendo wii. 1-4 player, 
 adventure action mode and much more things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamemaster50010
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Hello, GameMaster50010 here! This Sonic game is better then what GameSpot says! with great gameplay, 
 Best graphics in any of the Sonic games that came out before The Secret Rings! (Sonic unleashed 
 and the black knight are better!!) This game is one of Sega's best work yet! (Thats my opinion) 
 The Multiplayer on this game isnt THAT good, but the story mode is VERY WELL  
 So if your a sonic fan and looking for a great quality game, This is the sonic game for you! (Unless 
 if you can get sonic unleashed, but if you cant get S. U. then you need sonic and the secret  
 :) ( : ( )  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Michael0134567
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  Story: The story is pretty basic, this time it's not Eggman that's the bad guy, it's a genie (you can 
 find that out for yourself) . Your goal is to stop him and theres 8 different worlds (1 is a training 
 level where you learn how you play) . Theres another genie that helps you along the way and her name 
 is "Shahra". Most of the cutscenes are like comic books (they're really boring) , but a couple are 
 CG animated and they look really good. 8/10
  
  Gameplay and Controls: The gameplay is really simple, it moves forward and you gotta turn (by tilting 
 the Wii Remote) and jump (by pressing the 2 button) and more. You stop moving by holding 1, jump with 
 2, doing "speed break" (where you run extremely fast and you acquire later in the game) and "time 
 break" (where it goes in slow motion) and this is done by pressing up or down on the d-pad on the 
 Wii Remote. It's pretty responsive for the most part, but you'll get really frustrauted when it all 
 comes so fast. Theres also a party mode with over 40 mini games, but it's really shallow. You can 
 unlock 4 additional characters for party mode and some more minigames, but seems very similar to 
 Mario Party and Super Monkey Ball which are both far superior. Thankfully you only play as Sonic 
 in the Adventure Mode. You can level like in a RPG and theres over 100 skills to get and it's really 
 good. At the beginning of the game, you start off really slow, but hang in there and unlock some of 
 those skills before thinking of giving up. Theres also over 100 missions in the entire adventure 
 mode and that's alot and they're quite different. The level design is pretty solid as well.8.5/10
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics in Sonic and the Secret Rings are gorgeous, Sonic is pretty detailed and the 
 enviornments look really good (you will notice a few blurry textures and that's it) . The framerate 
 is rock solid and I didn't see any slowdown whatsoever. I think the best looking world is "Sand 
 Oasis" and the rest look really good as well.10/10
  
  Sound: The sound is pretty good overall, some people will love the cheesy 80's rock music and others 
 will hate it, but I love it although it doesn't fit the theme of the worlds. The sound effects are 
 punchy, the voice acting isn't too bad (much better than Red Steel's) , but at times, it's lackluster.9.5/10
 
  
  Value: The adventure mode will take you a while and it will take a long time to just unlock everything, getting 
 gold medals is extremely difficult, but rewarding. The party mode extends the replay by a little 
 bit, but not much more. Most people will just play it for the single player.9.5/10
  
  Conclusion: If you're a die hard Sonic fan, theres no need of convincing you to buy this game. The 
 game is really fun most of the time, but can also be extremely frustrauting. Sonic and the Secret 
 Rings really is a great game.
  
  Overall:9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justinge3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  All this game ever did was tick me off. The first level of each world is easily the best of the 
 game, and its like what, 8 levels? Sorry i didn't bother to count. Anyway, just avoid it if your 
 get easily frustrated. This game is like playing Raining Blood on Guitar Hero 3 while blindfolded, 
 and with thick mittens on your hand. Ahhll gibe this game one thing, it had good graphics for the 
 Wii at the time, seeing that most games are shovelware. Well, Super Mario Galaxy beats this games 
 graphics anyway, but it used to be graphics king on the Wii. But in terms of gameplay, it almost 
 falls apart. I want to RUN through levels, not do boring and frustrating missions like "find the 
 four dinosaur eggs" or "beat the flying red orb to the goal (Frustrating as Hell) "
  Weeellll I trudged my way to the final boss just to get my butt kicked. I could never get the thrid 
 final hit. So I sold this game to save up for GHWT. Happy for me? you shoud
  
  -end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travisstaggs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  The Gamespot review is so stupid don't even read it, this game is the best Sonic game to come around 
 in awhile hes actually somewhat fast in this one and it goes back to the games roots with the super 
 speed but theres no eggman this time around.
  
  Graphics 9/10: Graphics are very good for the Wii.
  
  Gameplay 8/10: It takes awhile to get 
 use to the Gameplay but once you get use to it you'll be fine.
  
  Sound 5/10: Ugh the voices got on my nerves but the music I thought was cool.
  
  Replay Value 
 7/10: It does have a multiplayer option which is basically you and some friends playing mini games 
 together or you and the computer which ever you like.
  
  Overall score 8.5/10
  
  REVIEW:
  So lets see the previous sonic games have sucked except the older ones for Sega they 
 were amazing. This game actually goes back to the Sonic roots and have brought Sonic his speed 
 back and his ability to tackle enemies super fast AND collect coins and gain abilities by leveling 
 up which is all very nice and great its been awhile since Sonic has been this good, but the game 
 does have its flaws. The levels can get a bit repetitive by doing challenged and cannot continue 
 unless you complete a certain amount of challenges but if you can zip through the levels and junk 
 you'll be fine but more then likely it'll drive you crazy because you accidently broke a jar or 
 you didn't outrace the fairy thing and you have to redo it again or do a different challenge, the 
 gameplay however is great very good sense of speed and such the only thing I hated about it is 
 if you have to jump back and theres an enemy behind you theres no way to see it you can only see 
 sonic by a camera stuck behind him so when you back up for something good luck not getting hit 
 or something, it is nice to see a good Sonic game for once in a very long time finally Sega might 
 just get 3-D sonic games done right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrozs1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 12:05 am PT
Review:  its soooo boring so do not buy only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only 
 rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent 
 only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only 
 rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent 
 only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only 
 rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent 
 only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only 
 rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent 
 only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only 
 rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent 
 only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only 
 rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent 
 only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only 
 rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent 
 only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only 
 rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent 
 only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only 
 rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent only rent 
 only rent only rent only rent only rent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamemanyeah
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 10:44 pm PT
Review:  This new game is great. You want to play this game. The corntols are easy but they are frusting 
 with moiving backwards. You can unlock new skills that keep the fun jumping. Sonic is fast as he 
 was in his early games but it takes him a little to long to get there. The 2D cutscenes I get because 
 they're showing the story like in a book. If the story gets boring you can do The best amazeing 
 awsome PARTY MODE. Play as SONIC and his friends in over 40 minigames. Isn't that cool.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  This new game is great. You want to play this game. The corntols are easy but they are frusting 
 with moiving backwards. You can unlock new skills that keep the fun jumping. Sonic is fast as he 
 was in his early games but it takes him a little to long to get there. The 2D cutscenes I get because 
 they're showing the story like in a book. If the story gets boring you can do The best amazeing 
 awsome PARTY MODE. Play as SONIC and his friends in over 40 minigames. Isn't that cool.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbkkristian
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  For once, a game where there is no Eggman trying to take over the world! Instead it takes place 
 in the least of places you would think. A book, you heard me, A BOOK. But that's the least of your 
 problems. You've got a crazy evil genie that wants to erase the pages from the book. But that's 
 the second least of your problems, the controls are frustrating and you have no one to help you 
 like in Sonic Heroes. This game is not a true classic, you get stuck and get mad and bang your 
 wii remote on the bed/couch/etc. And the game was too short! I beat in in less than a week. This 
 game really grows on you if you enjoyed the first 5 missions. But there is one thing you will enjoy! 
 The Soundtrack! It is completely all rock and you might get it stuck in your head...
  
  But to ease your madness they have some party games you might master and beat those easy/normal/hard 
 computers. Yeah it reminds you of Mario Party. gosh i hate that game... BUT! Once you beat the 
 game enjoy the ending cause it is awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blankshore
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 30, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  If you've looked at the player reviews for this game you'll find that there are some very mixed 
 reactions about this game. Some think it's great, some think it's terrible. I'm one of those people 
 who thinks it's great.
  
  In this game you are always moving forward. You simply use the wii remote left and right to- you 
 guessed it- move left and right. There are more motion controls once you get in the air, such as 
 quickly moving the wiimote forward to do either a speed boost or a homing attack, but that's about 
 it. On the bright side, the controls are fun, and the game is incredibly fast paced. Yes, even 
 though you're always moving forward at top speed, you'll have a blast in the process.
  
  If that doesn't sound like your brand of vodka, I really couldn't recomend this game. I bought 
 it on a whim, thinking a sonic game would be a good idea. I don't have any real problem with the 
 game other than that the cut-scenes are rubbish and menu's can be a tad confusing at times. It's 
 a cheap game- $20 used- so you really can't go wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sux138
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 29, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  I love sonic!
  
  my first videogame was a Genesis, so i've been on sega's team all my life.
  
  after the genesis 
 i had a Sega Saturn and at the 128 gen i've played all games on my PC.
  
  Now, with my WII it's nice to see Sonic again and i've had the better expectations for this game.
 
  
  Unfortunatly, all my hopes were throw down at the very beginning of this game.
  What do you expect from a game that even the MENU is broken! 
  They can't be serious about this 
 game, it is not a finished work.
  Every aspect in this game is broken, to start, the lame menus, then the Stupid tutorial level.
 
  
  why the hell we need a tutorial to a game that the only move is JUMP and Hit?
  
  and then again, the menus!
  
  when you complete the first part o
  f the tutorial you are 
 trow back to the menu, just after one jump!
  
  When you get tho the actual game you see real nice graphics, but sonic moves so slow that you'll 
 be surprised, for the wrong reason. 
  
  after that, theres some missions that instead of giving replay value, just make the game unbearable.
 
  
  do yourself a favor and avoid this one!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverblur007
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 20, 2008 5:05 am PT
Review:  Sonic and the secret rings is not the most enjoyable Sonic experience you'll ever have, but still 
 it's a good one. The gameplay is all that really makes up this game, the storyline is somewhat 
 poorly thought out and the new characters in the game (Sharha and the Erazor Djinn) are just plain 
 weird. The homing attack is your most valuable ability in your quest to save the Arabian Nights 
 from being destroyed. The soul gauge is an interesting new feature that will speed up or slow down 
 whatever is around you so you can safely get to your destination. Time break is more useful, but 
 it is harder to control than speed break. If you are getting interested in Sonic this upcoming 
 holiday season, try Sonic Rush first. If that's not good enough for you, you may want to try this 
 game, but be sure you rent it at least once at first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hyper_Hedgehog
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings was the first Sonic game for Nintendo's Wii console. After the disastrous 
 Sonic the Hedgehog on the Playstation 3 and Xbox 360, a large amount of people were relying on 
 this game to deliver the goods. Did it succeed? Mostly.
  
  The story goes like this: you (Sonic) are pulled inside the world of the book '1001 Nights' by 
 a ring genie called Shahra to defeat another, evil genie named Erazor Djinn from taking over the 
 book's world and Sonic's aswell. Strange? Hell yes, but it does the job fine for the most part, 
 and it's enhanced by storybook-like cutscenes.
  
  The basic gameplay of Sonic and the Secret Rings is completely on-rails. You hold the Wii Remote 
 horizontally and tilt it from left to right to move side to side. You also press the 2 Button to 
 jump, and again while in the air to homing attack. While you might not immediately get a hold on 
 the Remote-based controls, they'll soon become second-nature.
  
  To progress through the story, you have to complete numerous missions. While some are fun, others 
 are unenjoyable, repetitive and unfairly hard, with the difficult often spiking suddenly. You also 
 have to move backwards occasionally, and as the camera mostly stays fixed, you often run into something, 
 losing rings.
  
  Speaking of rings, you can equip several abilities to increase the amount you hold, the amount 
 you lose, and the amount you start with. You can also equip numerous other abilities too, such 
 as speed boosts and element-based moves. The game's speed depends entirely on the abilities you 
 equip, so if you want to be a speed demon and rip through the stages, you have that option.
  
  There's a party mode too, similar to Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz. Also like that game, 
 however, few are really that fun, leaving it as yet another failed attempt by Sega to pad the gameplay,
 
  
  The game's graphics are a high point, and another place where the Arabian Nights setting impresses. 
 Impressive water effects, lighting and a consistent framerate result in one of the prettiest Sonic 
 games yet.
  
  A low point, however, is the game's audio. The soundtrack is filled to the brim with godawful cock-rock 
 BGM, most of them infuriating. The voice actors also mess up again, with OTT 'acting' fed by an 
 unbelievably cheesy script.
  
  Still, despite its issues, Sonic and the Secret Rings is a definite step in the right direction 
 for the Sonic franchise, and a thoroughly enjoyable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrandpaFohawk
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 26, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Im sorry but I really hated the idea of this game I mean come on Sega gets a chance 2 make a sonic 
 game just on the wii and all u use is the remote sideways 1 word for Sega LAZY!
  
  HITS
  Finally only Sonics in this!
  Pretty good graphics not as bad as everyone says
  Music is ok 
 but not great like other Sonic games
  At least Sega put in a party mode!
  Lots of levels i think
  I heard Bigs is in it! But hes really hard 2 find alot
  The main song 
 is pretty good even though youll get sick of it cause it plays everytime youre at the menu
  The rings r huge!
  I like the super speed powerup
  Uhh the water looks nice
  
  But then
 
  
  MISSES
  Tails sneaks his way into another game and hes even gayer than usual (even though i liked playin 
 as him in Sonic Adventure and Advance)
  Horrible controls! u can barely stop and when u do it so hard 2 go backwards and dont even mention 
 backflipping!
  The dark ring Sonic looks retarded what happened 2 Super Sonic
  Most of the powerups suck
  Come on!? Arabian nights also didnt Eggman say somethin about that 
 in SA2?
  Party mode even though its nice SEGA put it in most of the games suck
  Wayyy to many missions on each level
  AHHH!!!!!! JASON GRIFFITH IS BACK!!!!!
  Cutscenes r completly 
 lazy (theyre just pictures)
  And the worst of all Sonics final wish which he couldve of used on hookers, booze, or best of all 
 to be in a better game he wastes on TISSUES! yes I said it TISSUES!
  
  So there I said it this game is better than heroes, Shadow, and Next gen buttt its still not that 
 good come on console Sonic games havent been good in years well except for the Riders series and 
 remember i said console Sonic games not the actually good portable games especially Rivals 2 but 
 theres hope Unleashed is gonna rock! (Well for 360 and PS3 the Wii version looks like Secret Rings 
 again)
  
  Peace! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowSonic20
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  Ever since the culmination of the downward spiral in the quality of Sonic's console games in Shadow 
 the Hedgehog and the 2006 Sonic the Hedgehog, fans of SEGA's mascot franchise have looked towards 
 Sonic's exclusive Wii title with its promise of a different approach to 3D Sonic.
  
  With its new on-rails level design, Sonic and the Secret Rings actually does succeed in eliminating 
 almost all the problems that have plagued every 3D entry in the franchise since 1999, leaving behind 
 what at its core is a solid Sonic experience that, at least in part, captures the rollercoaster-like 
 platforming feel of the genesis games, but longtime Sonic fans may find getting to that core difficult 
 when faced with some seriously questionable design choices that present new issues to get frustrated 
 about.
  
  First the good though: Most people might think that restricting Sonic to a rail would make for 
 gameplay that felt too rigid. This is not true at all in Secret Rings. With the help of some good 
 level design, putting Sonic on a rail has actually gotten rid of all of the worst problems that 
 have appeared repeatedly in console Sonic games for years.
  
  The game rarely -- if ever, glitches out on you, the camera is no longer trying to kill you, and 
 best of all -- for the first time possibly since the original 1991 Sonic the Hedgehog, you play 
 only as Sonic himself. No sidekicks. Other characters might appear in the game, but you never have 
 to put up with entirely new design schemes cramming themselves into it.
  
  When playing through the main levels, you'll run, you'll jump, you'll grind, and you'll dodge, 
 weave, and dash through and around obstacles at blazing speeds that make Secret Rings into exactly 
 what a Sonic game is supposed to feel like  a platforming rollercoaster. Furthermore, Sonic Team 
 has also proved that the Sonic formula of running through levels with gimmicks like springs, catapults, 
 and other devices has the potential to be enhanced by Wii Remote control.
  
  During the entire game players will hold the Wii Remote sideways as if playing a Virtual Console 
 game. Forward movement is automatic while turning from side to side is controlled by tilting. Jumping 
 is controlled with the 2 button and dashing into enemies is done by pushing the remote forward. 
 When flowing at top speeds Secret Rings requires a surprising amount of delicacy and precision 
 with the tilt control and can give things a very arcade-like feel.
  
  Doing things like flapping with the remote to operate a flying pot or pulling the remote back and 
 pushing it forward to launch Sonic off of a catapult make this game's gimmicks feel more involving 
 than before. I'll admit that there were times when I was that idiot you see in all the Wii commercials 
 waving around the Remote at full arms length in front of him like a jackass.
  
  With all of this at its heart, Sonic and the Secret Rings is definitely a better game than any 
 previous 3D entry in the franchise, but the game is kept from being what could've truly reinvigorated 
 SEGA's mascot by a new system that oldschool Sonic fans may not take kindly to as well as possibly 
 one of the stupidest design decisions I have ever seen in a game.
  
  One point where opinions on Secret Rings may diverge is the new stat building system that's been 
 added. The first time I beat a level and saw the game add up experience points and show me a list 
 of abilities I could use, my knee-jerk reaction was "Stat-building!? In MY Sonic game!?" But eventually 
 I came to see how this system actually helps the game pick up in its later stages and how some 
 could find enjoyment in its versatility.
  
  When players first start Secret Rings, Sonic actually takes a while to speed up to the blazing 
 fast speeds that we know him to be capable of. Whenever Sonic takes damage or slows down for whatever 
 reason he must also start back at jogging pace and regain speed. On top of this the jumping and 
 enemy lock-on system in this game at first seems almost broken in how slow it is.
  
  Oldschool Sonic fans will probably look at this and say "where the hell is my spin dash?" But people 
 who stick with the game will find that Sonic Team has tried to add in a flexible new RPG-like system 
 that allows them to attach abilities to Sonic that eventually bring him to the familiar super speed 
 status that feels much smoother.
  
  Every time Sonic completes a mission, new abilities might become available for him to equip. Every 
 time he levels up, Sonic is able to have more abilities equipped at one time. These include abilities 
 that may increase Sonic's top speed or acceleration, his jumping ability, his cornering, or provide 
 certain bonuses.
  
  Through this, players can theoretically gear Sonic towards whatever advantages they see fit depending 
 on the level and those who have the patience to play past those slow first couple hours of the 
 game may come to appreciate the system's flexibility. Oldschool players on the other hand who were 
 probably taught from playing the Sonic games of old to be impatient by nature, will most likely 
 not stand for the system's lack of immediacy.
  
  The one aspect of this game that severely hurt my overall enjoyment of it however, is SEGA's decision 
 to literally force players to engage in side missions while playing thorough the main game.
  
  After completing a main level, instead of just going straight on to the next level like in 
 most games, players will actually have to go back and engage in several (sometimes over an hours 
 worth) of side missions in order to unlock the next main level. These missions may involve tasks 
 like getting 50 rings, beating an opponent to the goal, not dying, or completing some special objective 
 that relates to the story.
  
  For the most part these side missions are fun and feature some good extra level design like extra 
 content in any game should, but watching a cutscene that gets me ready to move on to the next level 
 and then having to go back and dick around in previous areas for another hour instead of doing 
 that after finishing the main story feels like a sorry attempt at artificially extending the length 
 of the game and instead simply ruins the pace of it overall, making for lots of unneeded frustration.
 
  
  Outside of single player though, Secret Rings also features a multiplayer mode that features a 
 bunch of unlockable mini-games laid under the format of something like Sonic Shuffle or Mario Party. 
 The board game format is adequate enough as an extra feature to the game and some of the mini-games 
 themselves actually make pretty good use of the Wii remote.
  
  The presentation style featured in this game makes Secret Rings seem like somewhat of an oddity 
 among Sonic games. The entire game is put in a sort of Arabian Nights setting, but instead of making 
 every level into Sandopolis, Sonic Team actually tried to depict several variations of the desert 
 theme like a palace, a tomb, a jungle, and other similar locales. If you ask me I'd just prefer 
 to have my usual forest level to water level to fire level to ice level to robot level progression 
 that's in virtually every other Sonic game but some who may tire of those themes will probably 
 find this to be a welcome change.
  
  The plot line itself is a weird take on the Arabian Nights stories, with Sonic characters appearing 
 as sort of adaptations of characters from the 1001 tales like Sinbad and Ali Baba. The whole thing 
 revolves around seven "World Rings" that must be tracked down in order to see the game's real ending. 
 For the most part this story does its job in providing a scenario for the variety of missions that 
 players will go through, but when it starts talking about the "rage, hate, and swirling emotions" 
 represented by the rings, the story does start to feel like it's getting too big for its britches.
 
  
  What I find nice is that instead of going all out with fully animated or CG cutscenes, SEGA has 
 actually opted to give Secret Rings moving comic book-style cutscenes similar to those in Konami's 
 Metal Gear Solid Portable Ops with panels and hand drawn images sliding around onscreen to convey 
 action in a minimalist manner that still manages to look cool, although the voice acting is still 
 just as annoying as it ever was. Oh, and the music is still nothing but crappy but rock. I'll admit 
 though that it wouldn't be so bad if every song didn't have to have its own lyrics.
  
  Visually speaking, Secret Rings is actually one of the better looking games on Wii so far, with 
 environments lying firmly in the same league as high-end Gamecube titles like Twilight Princess, 
 and a Sonic character model that looks closer to that of the Xbox360/PS3 game than to that of the 
 previous Gamecube games.
  
  Bottom Line
  The fact that Sonic and the Secret Rings has once and for all alleviated most of the gameplay issues 
 that have hurt Sonic games since the Dreamcast alone solidifies it as Sonic Team's best attempt 
 yet at a 3D Sonic title. It takes a while to pick up, but the Wii Remote controls and level design 
 prove to be pretty slick. However, forcing secondary objectives that should be presented as extra 
 content into the main sequence of levels is not the way to lengthen a game and in this case cuts 
 it down to a pace that many players simply may not stand for. Overall though I'd still say that 
 this game is at a least big step in the right direction, even if Sonic still has a ways to go on 
 the comeback road. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dymond7
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: I love it, extremly fun that never get's bored, the Wii controls are extremly awesome, 
 and like I said better than any 3D Sonic game, it doesn't abuse the motion sensor, so that's great, 
 but I just think if the game played in a Sonic Adventure 2 enviroment with the same controls it 
 would've been better, because I don't understand how Sonic would EVER end up something like this, 
 like the eviroments arent my faovirte thing about the game.
  
  10/10
  
  Graphics: Very good, I don't think a PS2/Xbox/GCN can handle the game's graphics it just looks 
 sweet, Sonic is very detailed, everything looks detailed, when it came out it had the best graphics 
 on the Wii, but It's not better than Super Mario Galaxy's graphics or Corruption.
  
  8/10
  
  Storyline: Basically it just fine, I mean the cutscenes are good, a good way to tell 
 a story, Sonic Heroes had a better storyline, actually a way better one, although the Gameplay 
 is way better in this game and offcourse the graphics are better.
  
  Overall:
  
  Pick it up, do not overlook this Sonic game, I think Gamespot didn't give it a score it deserves, 
 but it's the reviewer's opinion and not mine, I say pick it up, I think you'd find it a bit cheaper 
 right now, but it's worth 60$, although it's short, but it has addicting game play, so you'd always 
 be replaying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strikerfan116
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 15, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong. Sonic And The Secret Rings is and always will be, a good game. But, if you 
 compare it to the Genesis classics, and dare i say, Sonic CD, it dosen't even hold a candle to 
 that 16 bit (and/or more then that) greatness. This is due to a couple of reasons.
  
  Reason 1. Unless you have a certain ring catering to speed, Sonic is not that fast in this game. 
 Aside from Sonic's Labrinth for the GG, this is the only the game, where Sonic isn't fast. 
  
  Reason 2. The graphics, aren't very surprising. They look like something that could have been 
 done on the Dreamcast, PS2, maybe even a Saturn.
  
  Reason 3. Cutscenes sound cool, but they SSSUUUUCCCKKK. They've changed Sonic from just a run and 
 jump guy, to a mess of Cutscenes and confusion.
  
  These three reasons make Sonic And The Secret Rings, a black eye in one of the most stelar franchises, 
 EVAR!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LK9988
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  So this game didn't resurect sonic from the dead (Although I love the 3D sonic games too!) but 
 it's a really good game and i'm sure many of you will agree with me. It's not perfect but it's 
 one of the best spinoff games i have ever played. The scenes are usally in a book-like style, which 
 is interesting but I would just prefer them to all be just normal cutscenes. Oh, and the party 
 games are just great! whether with friends or on your own, the minigames are just pure fun to play.
 
  
  here's the summing up:
  
  graphics: Nothing reveloutionary, but some pretty good graphics for the wii unlike others (I'm 
 looking at YOU my pokemon ranch) . 8.5/10
  
  gameplay: The best part of the game. Although it takes a while to get sonic moving fast, when he 
 does... HE GOES FAST! which is but one of the good things in this game. The levels are really imaginative 
 and some of the best i've seen in a sonic game. The enemies aren't all of Eggman's robots which 
 is good for a change. There are loads of missions to do and there's also a party mode! 10/10
  
  
  sound: The sound is very good in this game, enough said.
  8.5/10
  
  music: Apart 
 from the main theme tune, there are some very good songs in this game!
  8.5/10
  
  Story: The story is quite good but I don't really like the style of the scenes in this game. 7/10
 
  
  overall: I would easily reccommend this game to any sonic fan!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6h05tly
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 14, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  SONIC AND THE INTRODUCTION
  Sonic has his shares of successes and failures. The blue hedgehog works wonders in the 2D realm 
 as his speed and simplicity made him a legend and a popular icon during the 16-bit battle between 
 the SNES and Genesis. But as the industry moved into the 3D era, Sonic was lost in the translation 
 all due to the fact he wasn't ready for this new move. Many fans think Sonic isn't suitable for 
 the third dimension while others believe he's willing to zip thru levels in an open and free-roaming 
 world. In my opinion, he can handle both dimensions. There are some 3D Sonic games the Blue Blur 
 reached success (Sonic Adventure and Adventure 2) while others such as Sonic Heroes and his 360 
 and PS3 debut didn't achieve the feel of a real 3D Sonic title, despite the fact they reached good 
 sales on their releases. When Sonic entered Wii territory back in 2007 with a brand new exclusive 
 for Nintendo's system, Sonic and the Secret Rings in my opinion is a decent and pretty good 3D 
 Sonic game.
  
  SONIC AND THE STORYLINE
  Based on the Arabian Nights tale, Shahra the Genie seeks out the world's fastest hedgehog on a 
 mission to save her world from an evil genie by the name Erazor, who is threatening to change the 
 events and create his own world thru the Arabian Nights tale. As you progress thru the game, you 
 will encounter familiar Sonic characters, but are they the same characters you have known throughout 
 the series? You will have to figure that out for yourself.
  
  SONIC AND THE VISUALS
  Even though Sonic's Xbox 360 and PS3 game's visuals look impressive, The Secret Rings on the Wii 
 is also an impressive-looking Sonic game. In fact, this is probably one of the best-looking Wii 
 games and the best-looking Sonic game to ever grace on a Nintendo system. The animation on Sonic 
 is slightly better than his next-gen counterpart, hence his hair and shoes are animated unlike 
 what you see on the self-titled Sonic game on the 360 and PS3. Some textures like the sand, clouds, 
 and a few enemies cannot compete with the next-gen textures of other Sega and Sonic-related games. 
 Despite the graphical limitations, The Secret Rings is still a great-looking game, especially on 
 Nintendo's innovative console.
  
  SONIC AND THE MUSIC
  Ever since Sonic Adventure was released, the series still has some awesome music. The Secret Rings's 
 soundtrack sometimes has that Arabian feel (to match the theme of the game) while other levels 
 with themes such as the dinosaur and pirate settings have that hit-and-miss on the background music 
 and the song lyrics in general. "Seven Rings in Hand", the game's main theme, rocks the house and 
 keeps up the tradition of heart pounding music in the most action-packed levels in the Sonic series 
 (even though the levels themselves mostly aren't extreme but the music more than makes up for it.
 
  
  SONIC AND THE GAMEPLAY
  You use the Wii Remote sideways and you move Sonic left and right by tilting the remote left or 
 right. Press the 2 button to jump and the 1 button to stop. Tilt the remote backwards (in this 
 case, tilt it towards you) to walk backwards. And use the remote to perform certain tasks as indicated 
 on the game itself. An interesting feature on The Secret Rings is that you can level up your character, 
 but not in the way you'd think. Once you gain a new level, you will acquire new skills to upgrade 
 your performance on the levels you play in. These skills will be available on the four rings you 
 can customize before you start your desired level. An example of this would be better braking and 
 faster speed. And the higher the level, the more rings you can use not only in the game, but also 
 in your custom ring inventory. Okay, back to the gameplay: The levels are difficult control-wise 
 as you will sometimes miss your timing on your jumps and other objectives throughout the level. 
 It's not the best 3D Sonic game, but it is slightly a better game than Sonic's Xbox 360 and PS3 
 debut (eh, did I just repeat myself? Sigh)
  
  SONIC AND THE PARTY
  For multiplayer there is a Party Mode where up to four friends (or computered players) can play 
 various minigames. The minigames vary on how you use the remote, and from my experience on this 
 mode, not too exciting. This will later become tedious and repetitive, and eventually you will 
 lose interest on the whole experience on the Party Mode. It can't compete against the Mario Party 
 series (believe me, I hates the Mario Party games) , but at least you can play these games with 
 your family as an alternative to Wii Sports and Wii Play.
  
  SONIC AND THE CONCLUSION
  It may not be the best 3D Sonic game around, but it is one of the most innovative games not only 
 in the Sonic series, but on the Wii itself. Despite the bad luck with Sonic into the 3D realm, 
 we are still waiting for a true 3D game starring the Blue Blur to arrive in the near future. With 
 Unleashed and the Wii exclusive The Black Knight heading their way pretty soon, Sonic isn't slowing 
 down just yet and will continue to run fast, even faster than the speed of light. If you want to 
 experience a next-gen Sonic game, give The Secret Rings a go: It's a prime example of how a 3D 
 Sonic game should be and a much better game than his next-gen offering on the 360 and PS3 systems.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: juansonic7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  A great Solo for Sonic.
  Not the best solo but still cool.
  Story:
  Its a decent story but could be better. Sometimes it gets a bit Stupid
  The story becomes more 
 intresting in the ending when the bad guy kills Shara. Not a great story but its actually not 
 bad.
  7/10
  Gameplay:
  The controls are sometimes bad sometimes good. Its a bit repetitive. The level design is great 
 and you really feel the speed in the game.
  7.5/10
  Music
  Not the best but actually not bad.
  7/10
  Cast:
  Great! Jason Griffith showed a lot of emotion 
 and he sounded fantastic!
  8.5/10
  Graphics:
  Graphics are cool and the animation is awesome, the GC Scenes are great!
  8.5/10
  Overall:
 
  The game is really fun and has a great design. I recomend you that game. Not just to Sonic fans, 
 because if you are a Wii owner its a pretty cool game to have in your collection.
  Sequel:
  Sonic and The Black Knight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt95101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Sonic and the secret rings is a great game and a must-play if you have a wii or even if you don't. 
 The levels are as imaginative and colorful as the classic sonic's and extremely in-depth. The story 
 is great even though it doesn't quite follow in the same footsteps as the over sonic games. The 
 main thing that sets it apart from all the other 3D sonic games is the fact that sonic's always 
 moving forward. When you're in a tight situation, this could become very annoying but it really 
 adds to the sense of speed that is sonic. Like I mentioned before, the levels are extremely well 
 made and so is the game itself. Sonic looks great and so do the enemies. After you've beaten the 
 story mode, (which isn't too long) the thing that really keeps you popping the disc into your wii 
 again and again is the fact that there is also a well-rounded mini-game mode with surprisingly, 
 well made minigames! The only thing is that the minigame's controls take a little while to get 
 used to, so don't forget all about them just cause they had a bad first impression. The only thing 
 that is really apparent and shows that sonic team was a little lazy in making this game is the 
 fact that there's hardly any real 3D cutscenes. The cutscenes look like a storybook or comic book. 
 This suits the game but having full 3D cutscenes would have made the game look more well done.
 
  
  
  In conclusion I think Sonic and the secret rings is a must-own sonic title and I'm looking forward 
 to more great sonic games like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingparsons
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  k dont get me wrong i love sonic but i meen come on this game was just terrible. ur character moves 
 through the lvl th whole time so allu really have to do is slide left and right and dodge things. 
 dont even get me started about the controls they made them so uncordinated i meen they coulda easily 
 made it so u used the d-pad to move but they had to make it so u tilt the wiimote to move... come 
 on. the story was very boring and every level seemed the same do to poor gameplay. the graphics 
 werent that good (compared to other sonic games) either ive seen better graphics in sonic heroes 
 and shadow the hedgehog. overall this game is way to repeatative and is a waste of time/money. 
 seems liek this game was thrown together to make a quick buck... im just glad i bought this game 
 when it was $20 not when it was $50. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyRice
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 5, 2008 10:48 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Impressive graphics so early on in the Wii's life; a pretty good soundtrack, despite 
 that all the songs have singing; you'll be moving fast a lot, which is a ton of fun; jumping, stopping 
 and turning work well when you get used to it; plenty of reason to come back for more; Sonic's 
 slowly getting back on his feet.
  
  The Bad: Moving backward and parts of some levels are extremely frustrating; voice acting is awful; 
 controls generally feel over-simplified; this isn't exactly a complete saving grace.
  
  This review is more of a viewpoint on Sonic in general, particularly in 3-D, though it will focus 
 mostly on Sonic and the Secret Rings.
  
  Sonic in 2-D stood on par with Mario, causing one of the greatest competitions among game developers 
 in gaming history: Nintendo vs. Sega. The SNES and the Genesis each had fantastic games that were 
 shoulder to shoulder with each other, and you wouldn't go wrong buying either system.
  
  Sonic's move to 3-D, however, didn't turn out the way Mario's did.
  
  Some of the most fun 
 I've ever had playing Sonic is the Sonic flash game on the computer. It's just like classic Sonic, 
 and it'd be worth actually paying money for.
  
  I started playing these games on Gamecube though. Sonic Adventure 1 and 2 were Sega's first attempts 
 I tried. I personally find that Sega could've very easily stuck with the speed levels in those 
 games and done a wonderful job. Playing as Sonic and Shadow in the Sonic Adventure titles was amazing. 
 I've always had tons of fun playing those levels. What really brings the games down are the other 
 characters.
  
  Recently, Sonic's character rosters have grown way too high. Tails had fun levels in the first 
 Sonic Adventure at least. It was mostly just like Sonic. The controls were tight and the feel of 
 speed was really there. Knuckles levels aren't awful, but they could be much improved, as we don't 
 want to just go treasure hunting over and over with such a fast, strong character.
  
  And Shadow gameplay in Sonic Adventure 2 was just as awesome as Sonic's. But playing as Big, Amy, 
 E-102, Eggman, Tails in Adventure 2, Knuckles and Rouge was obscenely boring.
  
  I'd be more than happy to play a game like Sonic Adventure with just a ton of the speed levels. 
 Speed is and always should be the emphasis in Sonic, because that's what the blue hedgehog is there 
 for. If I were racing through levels, moving forward, control stick held down, with Sonic, Tails, 
 Knuckles, Shadow or even Rouge or Espio, I'd be set. I still think the Sonic Adventure games, at 
 their best, are spectacular. At their worst though... They suck.
  
  Both of these were ports though. My sisters got into Chao World. I didn't. Still, it was fun when 
 I tried it once or twice. I don't know why Sega hasn't studied what people liked and didn't like 
 from Sonic Adventure titles and moved on from there.
  
  Sonic Heroes was the next one I played. I heard Sonic 3-D sucked, Sonic the Hedgehog on PS3 and 
 360 sucked, and the GBA/ DS games were good, but I've never played them. Heroes was a bizarre take 
 on Sonic, but not a bad one.
  
  I'd consider Heroes solid. They recognized that the character roster is too big, and thus made 
 the four teams. It's a good idea, even in execution, because each character brings something unique 
 to the table for their team. I think the most fun to be had is with Team Sonic and Team Dark. But 
 the most annoying thing to me is that you have to beat all four team's stories, which are basically 
 identical, to get the true ending, plus find the Chaos Emeralds in 'secret levels'.
  
  Still, the controls were tight, the graphics brought into the new generation pretty well, and overall 
 I didn't see why Sonic games were ripped on so much in 3-D.
  
  I never got Sonic Riders or Sonic Rider: Zero Gravity. Both apparently sucked. And then came Shadow 
 the Hedgehog.
  
  I was excited for this because Shadow is one of my favorite characters, but the game turned out 
 awful. Guns don't belong in a Sonic game. Awful controls don't belong, and they don't even make 
 sense. They could've just used the engine from Sonic Adventure. The graphics were so-so. Cars and 
 motorcycles don't belong in Sonic. What the heck?
  
  That showed me why Sonic's been going downhill. So I was naturally very skeptical about Sonic and 
 the Secret Rings, the first take on Sonic for the Wii.
  
  After the awful reviews for the 360 and PS3 game, I wondered if it was still possible for a good 
 console Sonic to be made.
  
  And thank God it is. Sonic and the Secret Rings may not have come close to putting Sonic on par 
 with Mario again, but the simple fact that it's fun speaks volumes for the blue blur.
  
  The story is unique, and rather odd. Sonic is sucked into the Arabian Nights story and has to fight 
 the Erazor Djinn to stay alive. The voice acting is awful, unfortunately, but you can at least 
 skip the cutscenes.
  
  Gameplay isn't what your average game is like either. Sonic moves forward of his own accord, though 
 you can make him jump, stop, backstep, move side to side and use the homing attack. The controls 
 feel like they could've just been the ones from Sonic Adventure, as I've said time and again, and 
 have now been simplified a bit too much.
  
  Nevertheless, this game was truly designed just for Wii. You'll move the remote to make Sonic jump, 
 use a homing attack and backstep, though the rest is assigned to buttons.
  
  Moving along at a very fast pace is tons of fun, as ever, even though you are sort of on-rails. 
 Other elements are a little irksome.
  
  While it is possible to handle every trap and monster that gets in your way, moving backward, jumping 
 at the right time and knowing what's coming make it a tad too challenging. You sometimes feel that 
 it's impossible to beat the level the first time you try. This can be frustrating, but when you 
 figure things out, get used to dodging side to side and timing Sonic's movements, you can start 
 blasting through levels.
  
  And that's when the game gets fun. You use what's more or less an RPG element to upgrade Sonic, 
 which is very customizable, and a brilliant, if strange, idea. Platforming and RPGs haven't mixed 
 since Super Mario RPG, but this allows you to have more control over what Sonic seems to do on 
 his own accord.
  
  Perhaps the best part is that you slowly discover the best way to handle puzzles is to go through 
 them at breakneck pace. Jumping obstacles, dodging around spikes and fire, and avoiding or killing 
 monsters always works better if you figure out the timing of how to do it fast. And that's how 
 Sonic should be.
  
  The mini-games are kind of fun, but they aren't the focus of the game at all. Still, they might 
 be worth a look, even though there's plenty of this sort of thing on Wii already.
  
  The graphics impress me a lot in this game. They aren't the best graphics ever, even on Wii, but 
 they're definitely a step up from the Sonic games before it.
  
  The music has some cheesy singing, but a few guitar riffs are kind of catchy. I'm not really for 
 or against the music.
  
  The game will probably just take you ten to fifteen hours to blast through, but there are tons 
 of levels you don't play the first time, and there's plenty of work to do to perfect your efforts 
 on each level. These are divided into eight unique worlds, so there's still quite a bit of variety, 
 even though there are tons and tons of levels.
  
  It's not one of the most awe-inspiring games on Wii, but Sonic and the Secret Rings is worth the 
 money. Plus, this is probably the best 3-D Sonic game ever.
  
  Sonic Adventure couldn't just focus on speed, Heroes was repetitive, Shadow's controls sucked, 
 and this one does have faulty controls of its own, but going fast is fun again. The sense of speed 
 is certainly there, and going fast is even the best way to handle the game. If Sega can keep the 
 snowball rolling, Mario could have his true rival back at last. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hexph33r
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 25, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Sonic and the secret rings was released on february 20th 2007 exclusively on the wii. It takes 
 advantage of the wii's motion sensing capabilities to steer sonic around the various stages. For 
 most this game is a welcome addition to the sonic franchise. And considering sonic's latest flop 
 (I'm lookin' at you sonic the hedgehog '06) this game is very good. It's fast, fun, and exciting. 
 But there are some improvements that could be made. For example, in this game snoic is constantly 
 going forward. This would be fantastic if they didn't try to make this game so complicated at times. 
 And by that I mean in this game you almost constantly have to be hitting switches and killing the 
 Djinn (the bad guys) in order to advance in the level. Now, you can move backwards but the camera 
 does not adjust to this at all, forcing you to back up blindly. There is just too much you have 
 to be careful for and look out for in this game considering your always going forward.
  This can lead to extreme frustation at times.
  
  other than that I think it's safe to say this 
 game is pretty good.
  I would definetly reccomend checkin' it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pangster007
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 23, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  Well, well, Sonic, we meet again. The last i saw you was on the Dreamcast. Sorry, i didn't get 
 round to completing your adventure, it just didn't quite 'click' with me. So how've you been? Bad? 
 Oh dear, sounds like you've been having a bad run for the past few years. Well, come on old buddy, 
 cheer up, i'm here now - let's try and get you back up to shape. "Back up to shape, back up to 
 shape..." - something about those words ring through my mind when i think of this game, long after 
 i've completed it. Now that i've got round to completing Sonic's outing on the Wii, has he finally 
 turned things round? I'd say... he's beginning to. He's almost there. Sonic and the Secret Rings 
 on the Wii is one more attempt at trying to make a Sonic game in 3D that isn't bad. That really 
 shouldn't be hard you'd think, but something about great speed and 'open-environments' just don't 
 mesh well together. This latest attempt, is making the game 2.5D - basically everything is modelled 
 in 3D but your movement is restricted, almost 2D. And you know what? It really works, it really 
 does.
  
  Sonic and the Secret Rings is apparently belonging to the 'storybook series' and is not a spin-off 
 or the main Sonic Series. Sonic atSR's story begins when Sonic awakens to see a ring. Sonic unwittingly 
 summons up Shahra the Ring Genie after picking it up. Shahra tells Sonic of an evil entity known 
 as Erazor Djinn who is currently consuming the 'powers' of her world - a world which is contained 
 within this Arabian Nights book. Shahra convinces Sonic that he must come into the book itself 
 to halt Erazors rise in power - claiming that the power is such that Erazor will eventually leave 
 the book and wreak havoc out in Sonic's world. Being the hedgehog to answer a maiden's cry for 
 help, Sonic is whisked into the book with Shahra's limited powers as a Genie and makes his way 
 to meet Erazor. Unfortunately, the encounter leaves Sonic bounded by an arrow of flame to his heart 
 after heroically taking the hit meant for Shahra. The special flame is one which enslaves the victim 
 to a duty, the duty to collect the 'World Rings' and bring them back to Erazor Djinn. If Sonic 
 does not fulfil this duty, his life would be 'forfeit' - and this is where the game takes off as 
 you and Shahra travel around the word to collect the rings. Sonic and Shahra encounter many familiar 
 faces along such as Tails, Knuckles, Dr Robotnik but strangely they do not know Sonic as their 
 character's existence is solely within the book. For those Sonic fans, these characters aren't 
 playable in the story mode (thankfully?) .
  
  Visually average, this Sonic title isn't a game that stands out but it is better than the majority 
 of 3rd party Wii offerings so far. There is little on offer to show-off, there's no bump-mapping, 
 very little technical lighting, shadowing and it fails to bring to life the nice art behind the 
 game. In fact, the game looks on par with the Dreamcast games bar the different art styIe. What 
 is there that looks nice however are some of the open environments, the sky sections, the ruins 
 - those areas encapsulate the essence that is simply fun. These fun moments are when you are literally 
 tearing through the levels, the thrills you get as you watch the scenery reveal itself before you, 
 whether it's a the ruins collapsing in on itself or the entire level moving on its own. Though 
 it sounds great so far, these parts of the game are few and far apart. There is much to complain 
 about the presentation as well. The cutscenes are made up of 2D images portrayed in the background 
 of the Arabian Nights book and there are only around 2 or 3 full motion videos - which just screams 
 'cheap' to me. But what FMVs there are, are excelent. Actually, it's probably the only thing i 
 can say is excellent about this game. OK, now what can i say about the music :| - Simply bad, i 
 don't mean that in a good way like some may think on internet forums. The music almost always sound 
 like a cheap Foo Fighters cover band, it does it's job in making the game not silent, but boy, 
 does it do it bad! OK, maybe it'll grow on you, but even more likely is that you'll hit the mute 
 button. To make things worse, SatSR is a game which requires restart after restart, and the music 
 goes the same as well, restart, restart, restart until it annoys you so much. It's a shame that 
 there is just one decent track, a track that isn't the 'pop/rock' but more 'country' which you'll 
 only hear if you beat the story (the real story) and see the credits rolling. One neat thing with 
 this game that i almost forgot to mention is the option to choose between Japanese or English audio, 
 and to turn Subtitles on or off. My preference was the japanese audio with subs (obviously :P) 
 and the effect was instantaneous. The voice work was spot-on and it really brought the characters 
 to life.
  
  One of the first things you realise when starting this game up is that you do not use the nunchuk 
 at all. You control the game with the Wiimote on its side, much like a S/NES controller. You don't 
 actually move with the D-pad - instead, Sonic automatically runs forward as if it's on-rails, tilting 
 the controller to the left or right 'steers' Sonic left/right. To brake and stop you press the 
 1 button, pressing 2 will make Sonic jump. You can make Sonic move back by tilting the controller 
 backwards. Also, to attack you have to be in the air and locked onto an enemy in range, you then 
 thrust the controller forward which makes Sonic home in and attack. It all sounds quite a lot to 
 take in, and it is a lot to take in when you're getting to grips with how the game plays. The learning 
 curve is steep, and the way they made Sonic's movement 'gimped' from the start doesn't help either. 
 What i mean by 'gimped' is that Sonic's movesets and attributes are determined by the skills you 
 equip, and skill points are earned depending on your performance per mission, much like an RPG. 
 It is only when you've almost gone the whole length of the story that you gain enough skill points 
 to control Sonic in a comfortable manner. And even when you do get used to the controls there are 
 other things which will frustrate you: if/when you need to backtrack, the camera makes no attempt 
 to show you where you're heading - progression through the story is a bumpy ride thanks to difficulty 
 spikes - and many of the missions feel like an afterthought with awkward objectives like, do not 
 defeat any enemies ( :| ) or finish with 0 rings ( :| ) - and let's just pretend there aren't bloody 
 dinosaur eggs! :evil: In the end, it all boils down to getting through a level as fast as you can, 
 collect as many rings as you can, and defeating some bosses every now and again.
  
  Ok, let's just say you've played the games of generations old which had unforgiving missions, you're 
 used to restarting missions over and over again, you actually like the music they have (or muted 
 it) , and you like Sonic and is willing to overlook a few flaws - well, looks like you're the type 
 who can enjoy this game! Despite the flaws, i found enjoyment in simply overcoming the challenges 
 the game threw at you (even though unforgiving and non-sensical) - there's a sense of achievement 
 in doing so, and that echoes on even after you beat the full story: Each mission is graded in terms 
 of bronze, silver and gold - it is here in which the game has replay value as after you beat the 
 story, accumulated enough skill points and feel confident in controlling Sonic you'll find replaying 
 the missions to get gold extremely rewarding via unlockables. There's so much in this department 
 to satisfy Sonic fans: concept art, character art, scans of Sonic game covers, music, cutscenes, 
 movies, medals, etc. When you have gotten to grips with the controls, there are some good satsifying 
 moments to be had with the bosses, especially with Erazor Djinn. The few FMVs there are are excellent 
 and there is even a touching moment towards the end - It took me about 7 hours to reach that far. 
 Talking of replay value, i need to mention the 'Party Mode' on offer which lets up to 4 people 
 play against each other in a series of mini-games. While it sounds like some good extra content, 
 it may as well been cut out completely. Some mini-games attempt to use motion sensing and often 
 than not fails to register your movements. Some games do work well with the pointing function however, 
 but ultimately most of the games on offer are just boring. The ladder systems, the game board system, 
 are all good concepts for partygoers, but really, if you wanted something like Mario Party, you'd 
 just buy Mario Party instead! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bopie64
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  When I got Sonic and the Secret Rings, I hadn't played a new Sonic game in ages, so I didn't know 
 how low the Sonic franchise had gone during the GCN generation. But it really lit up on this one, 
 because the single player mode is really fun, and you can run really fast and the story is quite 
 exciting, as you get to work alongside a genie and fight this evil erazor, although the english 
 voice acting is not so great and sounds a lot better in Japanese, everything else for the story 
 works and the cinematics are worth watching. I am really glad I got this game. Don't get it for 
 the multiplayer, though because the mini games are boring and not worth it. It is fun for a little 
 while, but unlocking the characters does not seem very rewarding and the mini games seem like all 
 the other mini game franchises out there for the wii. It has a very good sonic feel to it and it 
 is a great game. I recommend it for any adventure game fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 12, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings was supposed to be the saving grace of the sonic franchise. Its unique 
 gameplay was hailed as welcomed to the series and was supposed to be a noticeable leap in quality 
 for the gameplay. 
  
  Will say this right now... this is literally one of the worse game I've played in years. The linear 
 dodge and jump gameplay sounds interesting but turns out to be a gaming disaster. Having to charge 
 your jump caused most of the frustration. Not only do you end up spending too much time on the 
 ground, but you end up slowing Sonic down. With Sonic being one of the fastest characters in gaming 
 it sure does take a really long time to get him to top speed. Also, the level design ins unnatural 
 and too linear. I found myself not knowing if Sonic was going to turn left or right and then being 
 smacked by an enemy that I didn't even see, not to mention the game's unforgiving crazy hard difficulty.
 
  
  Someone needs to tell Sega that Sonic games are for children. There is absolutely no reason for 
 early sections of the game to be as hard as they are in Sonic and the Secret Rings. These parts 
 aren't hard because of normal difficult gaming aspects, but more because of terrible game design. 
 Sega should have stayed away from Wii-mote controls and stuck with analog stick gameplay. I take 
 that back, had Sonic been controlled by the d-pad and the tilt controls the game would have been 
 salvageable. 
  
  On top of the unplayable game controls sits the music, which at first sounds good, but when you 
 realize that there's only two menu songs and they are annoying rock songs with unrecognizable lyrics 
 you get the feeling that the sound design was thrown together. Finally, the game integrates very 
 weak and nearly pointless RPG elements. I god I hate this game.... I don't hate many games, but 
 this one in special. 
  
  The only good thing the game has going for it is the story and animations. The usual cheesy and 
 CGI cut scenes have been replaced by a more storybook theme. This is a welcome change... but overall, 
 this game really has me longing to play Shadow the Hedgehog.... what's that about? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjgamefreak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my very first Wii games, and it's very fun. There are hundreds of party games you 
 can choose, and there are many game modes that are entertaining. The graphics are pretty good and 
 the controls are actualy pretty confusing. It could just be me, but sometimes the game won't respond 
 to my control. As for the music it is very entertaining. This game could possibly qualify for the 
 best music in a video game. The difficulty is hard. Some of the games are pretty confusing at first 
 time, but then it's easy to get use to. The ulocking system is a real pain. It's very hard to figure 
 out how to unlock characters. Sonic and The secret of the Rings is a highly addictive game. Any 
 Wii game collector should have this in their collection. A couple other great things about this 
 game is how interactive it is, and how much of a good party game it is. This game brings great 
 multi-player modes in too.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Overall, 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brysterdude
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings provides fun for the first couple of levels when your learning the ropes, 
 and the ring system to power up Sonic is unique. But all in all Sonic and the Secret Rings had 
 so many flaws, major ones being...
  
  1. The Wii remote seems quite unresponsive to it, there should be another way to play it.
  
 
  2. The levels are sometimes too hard, simply put. You can do a certain level a number of times 
 and just be frusterated with yourself and the game.
  
  3. The speed up and slow motion looks cool, but the fixed path with multiple spikes everywhere 
 are seemingly unnavoidable when in speed up mode. And the game is simply boring in slow motion 
 (It's Sonic, the fastest hedgehog alive...)
  
  4. The bosses are long fights for when you finally hit it. PERFECTLY, right on the dot.
  
  
 There were some bad things. But Sonic had a FEW sweet points, the speed is cool, the Wii remote 
 is a good idea, and the levels and story are extravegant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irishmobsta4eva
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  Sonic has always been one of my favorite video game characters. I always sport a sonic-themed wristband 
 on my right wrist. So when I finally saw Sonic and the Secret Rings in the bargain bin at my local 
 Gamestop, I of course was in a hurry to get right down into the first decently reviewed Sonic game 
 in some time.
  
  Starting up the game, the player is greeted with a pretty cool opening cinema. This cinema leads 
 you to believe that a lot of thought and effort has been put into this game, but this cinema is 
 as good as it gets. The rest of the storyline is explained in a "storybook" fashion, the characters 
 unmoving and the dialogue cumbersome. The classic "spikey balls" in the Sonic series are referred 
 to as "balls with spikes on them." Makes you wonder if anybody checked over their work. After the 
 initial set of boring "tutorial" missions, Sonic is thrust into the main portion of the game, where 
 he races through worlds on a linear path with only the ability to move left, right, jump upwards, 
 and move backwards. While this simple moveset seems well-suited for the Wii, the execution using 
 ONLY the wii remote is awful and really just depressing. I've found myself several times turning 
 off my Wii in pure frustration. 
  
  Yes, the main problem with this game, I cannot stress this enough, is the controls. They work alright 
 for the purpose they should have served, i. e. going straight along a linear path, but all hell 
 breaks loose when the game makes you backtrack, switches the camera angle, and performs many other 
 obnoxious variations on the simple gameplay. 
  
  All in all, leave this game where you found it and where it belongs: In the bargain bin with its 
 other unsold buddies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -insert_coin-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  Ive never been to satisfied with the 3D worlds of the sonic games. They're usually too slow, too 
 easy and seem to have that night-before script feel to it. (Then again, Sonic storylines have never 
 been deep) .
  
  Secret Rings, however, was really a lot of fun. Starting off slow, so one can get the hang of it, 
 it speeds up nicely and gets quite exciting (though, adding a leveling up system to a platformer, 
 and having to unlock Sonics speed seemed a little odd to me) . In the end the only real problem 
 i had with the game was its lack of decent controls. Overall, not too bad, but when i wanted to 
 stop or reverse at most points its like a had to trick the game into doing so.
  
  Level design is fantastic. Perfect for super speed running. I was a bit worried about its simplicity 
 but, as most of the platformers, it got rather tricky in the end.
  
  Gameplay, cant say Ill be aiming to finish the story again unless my game save gets deleted, but 
 I will be sitting and geting some gold/silver medals and collecting as many extras as I can. The 
 rewards are decent and the challenges arent half bad.
  
  The multiplayer stages are fun, though in between its a bit slow. Overall this game made me glad 
 Im a Sonic fan again... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GDawg333
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Ok, well, Sonic and the Secret Rings is pretty much a fun game to play. However its not that amazing 
 because it has its annoying aspect. Just 1 thing... the Wii-mote. See, the way u play Sonic isnt 
 all that great, because u have to tilt the controller sideways to play. And u have to turn it left 
 and right and left and right.... ugh. It gets on ur nerves. Actually, thats just what u have to 
 do in GT Pro Series, which i didnt like that game that much.
  
  The only thing i hate is just that. I mean they could have added another way to play the game instead 
 of tilting and jerking. Wrist pains anyone? I mean the graphics are supurb, the music is tight, 
 and the storyline is very kool. But they just made the main part of the game suck. I mean really. 
 I dont like it at all. The game is fine. The controls are not. They could have used the Nunchuck 
 in a certain way, like in most of the Wii games.
  
  Overall the game is fine. Music, graphics, storyline, are all great. But they just made the controls 
 suck. But luckily, once u get used to the controls, then it shouldnt be much of a problem. But 
 to get a medal, now thats hard as crap! I give Sonic and the Secret Rings a 7.5 out of 10. Coulda 
 got an 8 outta me if they just had better controls... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firecookie29
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  In Sonic and the Secret Rings, you have to race the clock and collect the seven world rings and 
 take them to evil Erazor Djinn before a mystical flame burns out. Even though you have to collect 
 rings you have to beat over one hundred missions before you can get some. You may think thats all 
 you can do, but with the new party mode, you and three friends can play endless hours of minigames. 
 Not just that stuff but you can unlock things too, like awards and more characters for party mode. 
 Even though some of the missions sound easy, some of them are really hard. Also when you gain experience 
 points and go up a level, you learn new techniques, but you can't forget the bosses that you have 
 to face! So if your looking for a high speed sonic game, then Sonic and the Secret Rings is perfect 
 for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Temps567
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 23, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Well I'll tell the truth. This game is pretty fun. Very addicting. I mean yeah this game really 
 lacks in controls. It gets REALLY frustrating at times but then. All of a sudden you get a hang 
 of it and see what this game is really trying to accomplish. 
  The story of this game is good and really LOONNG. And sometimes it seems to me that most of these 
 levels are not even needed. They're more like mini games and such.... cause most of the time you 
 have to destroy all enemies and collect 200 rings. then once you see a cutscene your like "ok now 
 im getting ahead" Then all of a sudden the process starts all over.
  But What this game lacks in it makes up for what this game is truely about. this game has done 
 what other games (except Mario Kart Wii) couldn't even think about doing. Basically you hold the 
 wii remote sideways and turn it in the direction you desire. Yet the first couple of tries you 
 mess up.
  So basically what im saying is that this game is VERY different from the others. In which that 
 its good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legend-of-Evil
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2008 1:01 am PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog has always been a series that can take hits, it isn't fragile. I mean, they 
 have released a few racing games, and plenty of spin-offs to boot. But it has been since the Dreamcast 
 days that Sonic the Hedgehog has starred in a truly entertaining game. Now, since the GCN/PS2/XBOX 
 got passed completely by any good Sonic game (outside of the remake of Sonic Adventure 2) , SEGA 
 have released this, once called Sonic Revolution, then Sonic Wildfire, and FINALLY, they landed 
 on Sonic and the Secret Rings, which, due to the game's nature, is very suitable.
  
  This isn't like the Sonic games you know, this isn't a platformer, this is truly something else. 
 In the basic intro of the game, it is shown that the notorious hedgehog protagonist has been pretty 
 much forced by a mysterious Djinn called Shahra, to enter the world of the Arabian Night's, like 
 literally, the book itself. These worlds have been terrorised for a while by Erazor Djinn, a genie 
 of the lamp running free, destroying the very story itself. Now, the objective of the main game 
 is to collect all seven of the World Rings, which you get by defeating bosses and hard missions 
 within each level, with each being seperated by a bizaar layout of chapter to chapter, each mission 
 being a mere paragraph of the story.
  
  Once you get into the game you must complete a very brief prologue, just giving you basic tips 
 on how to control the game. Sonic and the Secret Rings is different in this way. If you just leave 
 the Wiimote sitting on the ground of whatever, Sonic will run, and run, and run, and basically 
 not stop, even if he runs cleanly off an edge. Think of the Wiimote as a steering wheel type of 
 thing, you must tilt the mote side to side to make Sonic swerve on his path, and you have to turn 
 it upside down (buttons facing floor) for Sonic not to turn around, but to stop and walk backwards 
 (why you wouldn't turn around, I don't know, but it's Sonic, don't argue!) More or less, the levels 
 progress like this, with different missions like Get to the Goal! and Collect 99 Rings!, and yes, 
 every mission does have an exclamation at the end of it.
  
  The level design is beyond beautiful, every aspect being looked at from the lovely shimmer of moonlight 
 on a lake to the speed blurs that surround you when you hit the really high speeds (play for yourself 
 to find out) . Of course, while playing it through, I blanked out the fact that there were no dinosaurs 
 in the tale of the Arabian Nights... but I suppose that's the way Erazor Djinn likes it.
  
  Overall, this is a killer game, is not as good as previous stellar titles of the hedgehog's, but 
 it is easily better then any other game out so far in the recent days of his. I recommend this 
 game highly, but, only if you are a speed freak and a completionist when it comes to beating everything.
 
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  Sound - 8/10
  Gameplay - 8/10
  Overall - 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cluelesspug
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 21, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  I was really disappointed with this game. I thought it would be another great Sonic game, but I 
 personally thought it was a complete waste of time and money and I regret buying it.
  
  Bad: The controls can be very frustrating, not that many different levels, the story is slightly 
 confusing at times, it doesn't really give you that great sense of speed that most Sonic the Hedgehog 
 games give you, the story is told like a book and doesn't have any cutscenes, the voice acting 
 isn't good, multiplayer isn't that good either, the song on the stage select screen can get slightly 
 annoying after hearing it a million times.
  
  Good: The graphics are pretty good, story is a decent length.
  
  I think you should take my 
 word for it when I say that Sonic and the Secret Rings is a letdown to all Sonic fans like myself 
 and you shouldn't spend your hard earned cash on something like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXxNintendoxXx
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings is definitely an example that Sonic still can be a force to be reckoned 
 with. While the game isn't the best out there, it's clear to see that it's not the worst, far from 
 it actually. What's good about the game is that it takes Sonic in a new, while surprisingly fun, 
 direction. The controls work well with Sonic's speed, and actually makes it easier to get around 
 the vast levels and provide a challenge that you want to complete to obtain the various goodies 
 hidden around. Sure, at first the game may be unforgiving, making you die a few times until you 
 get used to the setup, but once you do, It'll make you actually want to try that 4th time around 
 to get that gold medal. Storywise, it is a bit dull, but then again keeps things fresh by adding 
 Sonic characters to the well known Arabian Nights theme. Aside from the main game is a handful 
 of Mario-esque party games that allow for a fun distraction with up to 4 players, and for the most 
 point, the games are simple, but fun. Once again, it's a good indication that Sonic Team is back 
 to their former glory, making Sonic fun and addictive again, let's just hope Sonic Unleashed is 
 as good, or better than this gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link3455
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Before I review this game, I will say I've always been a big Sonic fan. However, I won't deny his 
 recent games have been rather lackluster. Luckily, I felt Sonic Team finally is starting to get 
 on the right track with Sonic and the Secret Rings.
  
  I know many people didn't like this game because of the controls, and I will admit they took some 
 getting used to, but once getting the hang of them, they were actually pretty enjoyable. I liked 
 the interactive controls. They got you more involved in the game, in my opinion. And once I figured 
 them out, I had no problems controlling Sonic.
  
  The storyline was pretty good too. The whole story book outline in the cutscenes was different, 
 but made sense since the game was involved in a storybook. The ending of the game was very touching 
 and left you feeling good.
  
  This game also offered a new "leveling up" system. While it could get a tad annoying constantly 
 having to go back and customize your skill ring, it was still a great addition to the game. You 
 could customize Sonic for each different mission, which brought extra challenge in finding the 
 right skills to use.
  
  Speaking of missions, I enjoyed that idea as well. It brought extra challenge to the game and let 
 you explore the levels in varieties of ways, having a different idea of how to play the level in 
 each mission.
  
  The levels in this game were plain beautiful. All the graphics and stage design were constructed 
 well. As a matter of fact, I thought Sonic and the Secret Rings had some of the best levels of 
 the entire Sonic franchise.
  
  I know many people complain about the music in this game as well, stating the lyrics were way off 
 and they just threw random words in there, but I actually thought it had a nice beat. I looked 
 at the music's rhythm and sound and not just the words they said sometimes, which were actually 
 pretty appropriate words for the given levels. "Seven Rings in Hand" was an amazing song as well.
 
  
  While the voices weren't perfect and the characters talked somewhat slow, I did think this game 
 was Jason Griffith's best performance as Sonic's voice so far. He really gave Sonic his old "tough 
 blue guy" attitude streak back, making a lot of good one-liners that actually helped bring out 
 Sonic's attitude and weren't just corny.
  
  Overall, definitely a highlight of Sonic's recent games. While the controls may frustrate people, 
 I think if you take the time to get used to them, anyone could definitely enjoy this game. If not, 
 I still suggest any Sonic fan at least give the game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StillFreeTagger
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 11, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  What made Sonic so popular upon his Genesis debut is the sense of speed that his games had. That 
 sense of speed had slowly declined during the release of recent 3D hits. Sega wanted to bring back 
 what made Sonic famous and so they did! His first outing on the Nintendo Wii, Sonic and the Secret 
 Rings!
  
  One night Sonic is snug asleep in his home. Suddenly, a genie named Sharha appears and warns him 
 about the destruction of the Arabian Nights. Sonic is then sucked into the very book he was reading. 
 He must collect the seven rings and stop the evil Erazor Djinn.
  
  The first Sonic game in eight years where Sonic is the only character playable! Finally! Don't 
 get me wrong, I like Sonic's various pals and rivals, but it was about time we got a True Blue 
 only game. Sonic and the Secret Rings utilizes the Wii's unique controls for some high-octane gameplay! 
 This game gives that high speed action that we've used to love in classic Sonic games!
  
  First I must talk about the graphics. The Wii has been good to everyone's favorite hero! From a 
 Nintendo standpoint, Sonic has never looked better! Graphics are crisp, smooth and heavily detailed! 
 Some of the enemies look a bit blocky, but they'll be disposed of too soon to notice. Blur effects 
 add to that sense of speed everyone will be looking for! Environments include the Arabian Desert, 
 a Pirate Cove and more! 
  
  As stated before, Secret Rings uses the Wii controls for the action. However, they aren't the best. 
 You'll turn the remote side to side to steer as Sonic accelerates himself. Pressing the 2 button 
 will have him jump. While in air, thrusting the remote forward will have Sonic perform a homing 
 attack. This is good and all, but some actions in the game are clunky and frusturating. Backstepping 
 (just in case you miss your mark) doesn't function smoothly and becomes disturbingly repetative. 
 Braking doesn't always work and you'll find yourself dieing a lot! Upgrades in the game can help 
 some of these faults, but not a lot. The grinding that was so well handled and improved in the 
 previous three Sonic games has lost it again.
  
  Crush 40 returns after being absent in Sonic Riders and only making remix appearences in Sonic 
 '06. Their song "Seven Rings in Hand" is heard all over the game, even on the Wii menu. In-game 
 tracks are quite good, being a mix of rock and Arabian sounds. Although I disapprove of most of 
 the 4Kids voice cast, I must say that this has been Jason Griffith's best performance of Sonic.
 
  
  The game includes a multiplayer party mode (similar to Mario Party) . Players can choose a total 
 of eight characters (four must be unlocked) and compete in mini-games. Fun both alone and with 
 friends, a big improvement over the first attempt which was the Dreamcast's Sonic Shuffle.
  
  Unlockables include artwork, movies and extra characters for party mode. All are unlocked by 
 beating story missions and/or collecting hidden Fire Souls.
  
  Other than the somewhat clunky controls and frusturating difficulty, the only other problem I had 
 with the game was the lack of mobius loops! We get the speed back, but no loopty-loops?! C'mon 
 Sega!
  
  For a first try on the Wii, Sonic and the Secret Rings is not to be overlooked. Though it isn't 
 the best Sonic game, I see it as the official return of Sonic's roots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowflame291
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 9, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  OK, I know a lot of you are going to disagree with me on this, but in this case, I don't really 
 give a s**t. OK, now to start with how truly awful this game is. 
  
  Graphics-OK, I guess, but it still looks like a Gamecube game.
  
  Sound-total crap. The song 
 artists seem to have no idea what true metal is. 
  
  Story-the most retarded story I have ever heard in my lifetime. Sonic gets shot with an arrow and 
 has to collect 7 rings or he'll die? WTF? What were they smoking when they wrote this game's story?
 
  
  And guess what, I saved the worst for last
  
  Controls-Worst. Controls.  
 *breaks sound barrier*, espically when you're trying to attack enemies. I'm not even going to explain 
 it. It's why I put the difficulty at "hard". In fact, the whole game is nearly unplayable. And 
 gues what, Sonic doesn't even run that fast. IF SONIC IS ALL ABOUT SPEED, THE WHY THE F**K DO YOU 
 MOVE SO 
  
  So now for the summary. There is no reason to buy, rent, or even go near this game. It's even worse 
 than Sonic Next Gen. AVOID  *breaks 
 sound barries again* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicBalla
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 3, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely incredible and No I am not saying that because I am a Sonic fan I really 
 did enjoy this game. I put many hours into it, I played it night and day, and I even stayed home 
 to play instead of going out and spending time with the family. Anyways let me begin...
  
  The graphics..... well...... they're pretty. The cut scenes around the end are absolutely amazing 
 but it's pretty sad that almost all the cut scenes were made to look like a book I mean ok the 
 game takes place in a book but if you can do beautiful cut scenes like at the end of the game why 
 make it like a story book. The in-game graphics are pretty good but at the same time, the characters 
 edges look sort of rough.
  
  The Sound isn't that great. They use the same song for most of the game not to mention when it 
 finishes it's played over so your stuck listening to a never-ending D- never heard of rock band. 
 I never found the characters voices bad and it's the same for this game so no complaints from me 
 with that. If you don't like the English voices though you could put the Japanese voices which 
 to many is considered better.
  
  The Gameplay is the thing that makes this game amazing. With right timing the controls are amazing. 
 It's too bad that not many Wii games use this type of control scheme. The only flaw I say about 
 the controls is that when you try 2 move back with Sonic it doesn't always work and on top of that 
 you can't see when you moving back besides that you should love the controls.
  
  I'd say this game would last you at least 2 weeks but if you take your time like me then 2 months. 
 And if you want to unlock everything you can add at least 1 or 2 weeks to that. And if you have 
 more people to play with then the game's lasting value can end whenever.
  
  So in conclusion I say buy it. It's a superb game that you'd love and cherish. Not to mention it 
 was a pretty low price tag right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toon_Link87
Rating: 8
Date: May 30, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings is the first real Sonic game made for the Wii, and it is one of the 
 greatest 3D Sonic games in my opinion. IN the game you play through 7 nicely designed, good looking 
 levels, each with many missions for you to complete. Each stage is very different from each other, 
 which is good. And this game has a great sense of speed, which is what Sonic games are all about.
 
  
  The game controls very different than the past Sonic games, now you control Sonic holding the Wii 
 remote sideways and turning it like a steering wheel to make Sonic go left or right. Sonic moves 
 forward by himself, which can make it difficult to control at times especially when breaking or 
 trying to back up. To back up, you must move the Wii remote towards you, however sometimes it doesn't 
 work like its suppose to. One great thing that I loved about the controls was the way in which 
 you do the homing attack, which you do by holding the 2 button and quickly moving the Wii remote 
 forward. I must admit that the controls were hard to get use to, but after a few missions I enjoyed 
 them.
  
  The multilayer mode is a bunch of mini-games which are a lot of fun, and each game seems to make 
 great use of the Wii remote. Up to 4 people can play these games so its great for when you have 
 some friends over.
  
  Graphic wise this game is awesome, each of the levels are very well designed, colorful, and detailed 
 nicely. This is one of the best looking Wii games in my opinion. The music is what you would expect 
 from a Sonic game, its a lot like Sonic Adventure 2, which some people hate it and some people 
 love it. I happen to like it.
  
  Overall I would recommend playing this game, especially to anyone who grew up playing Sonic. There 
 are plenty of things to unlock and missions to do which will keep you busy for awhile. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Curtis_Bundy
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 26, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  This game utilizes the only Wii mote controller which actually works pretty good in this type of 
 game which is a fast action adventure game. The game has a ring system so you can choose of what 
 techs you use and there is a lot of different techs to try so there is an endles amount of what 
 you can do in the game. You will also be able to learn other techs in the game so that adds a lot 
 more techs. 
  The game also has a party game mode just in case you get some what bored of th single player mode 
 and there is over 40 party games and you can play 4 player in party mode. You can also unlock 4 
 other characters in the party mode to be in.
  I got this game on Easter and had no idea what it was about and I heard it was more bad than good 
 but do not believe it it is more good than bad. If you want a fast game and your a sonic fan this 
 game is for you or you need some new party games to play in a game you can get this just for the 
 party mode which I play the party mode most of the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctores143
Rating: 8
Date: May 24, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is way underated! This is by far the best 3-d sonic game. I know that isn't saying much, 
 but the games pretty sweet. When you first start out in the game though you go so slow the game 
 isn't even fun but after playing the game for about a hour you get upgrades and experience and 
 you notice you start going really fast!
  
  Heres the basics:
  
  gameplay:9 out of 10. This game is really fun almost all the time and even the side missions give 
 you a new path of the same level you played the first time. 
  
  control:7 out of 10. This is were the game falls short. Dont get me wrong the controls aren't bad. 
 When you are running they work good 95% of the time. Unfortunately when you have to sidestep on 
 a steep cliff sonic looks like he has a seizure 40% of the time. 
  
  graphics:9 out of 10. These are really good for sonic, but of course they aren't like halo graphics. 
 Still they are pretty good
  
  overall:8 out of 10
  
  
  This game deserves more. It's really fun and it makes a great rent because you can beat it in a 
 weekend but there are a lot of unlockables so if you play your games to death this is a great buy 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: famicommander
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 8, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings was, to many, Sonic's last chance to redeem himself after the debacles 
 that were "Shadow the Hedgehog" and "Sonic the Hedgehog (2006) ". This game certainly succeeds in 
 that respect, and is easily the best 3D Sonic game since the days of the Dreamcast.
  
  We'll start with what feels immediately different from previous entries in the series. First of 
 all, you no longer completely control your forward and backwards movement. You move forward automatically, 
 and can adjust your speed through jumping, stopping, and manipulating your environment. This virtually 
 eliminates camera and perspective problems that have so plagued recent 3D Sonic games. Overall, 
 the controls are responsive and well-done, even though there are a few hiccups.
  
  Another addition is the experience system, which essentially allows you to purchase new skills 
 after completing certain tasks. Some of the power-ups feel like they should have been available 
 from the start, but the game feels perfect when you've got Sonic tweaked just so. I don't think 
 Sonic has ever controlled as beautifully as he did for me towards the end of the game.
  
  The music is very inconsistent in this one. Some of the songs are very catchy, while others will 
 have you scrambling for the mute button. Sound effects from the Wii remote are functional, if unimpressive. 
 Sonic's American voice is terrible, but thankfully you have the option to switch to the Japanese 
 and utilize subtitles.
  
  At the time of its release, this game was probably the most beautiful to grace the Wii. Everything 
 looks crisp and clear in 480p and 16:9, and it was probably the first game looked like an improvement 
 over the previous console generation. The art styIe is great, with an authentic "Arabian Nights" 
 feel.
  
  The story is another area where this game falters, which is puzzling since it is nothing more than 
 a retelling of the cIassic "Arabian Nights". Once again, however, we are provided with a way around 
 this flaw by having the ability to completely skip story sequences.
  
  The game play is varied and consistently good, even if the difficulty is erratic. There are many 
 different types of levels, which serve to break up the monotony of previous games. Just when you 
 start to tire of something, you are presented with an entirely new option. Not being forced to 
 progress through the game in a purely linear fashion is also a major plus. The bosses are very 
 well-done and stand above previous Sonic bosses.
  
  One of the worst parts of the previous games was having Sonic's friends shoved down your throat. 
 Fear not, because Sonic's friends are reduced to cheerleaders and multiplayer mini-games. Speaking 
 of multiplayer mini-games, those are decent. They feel very tacked-on, but they can be fun with 
 a small group. Certainly not a showcased feature of the game.
  
  Overall, you're looking at a great package with some flaws that keep it from being a truly superb 
 title. If you ever had an interest in the Sonic series, give this one a shot. If you had lost faith 
 because of recent Sonic games, take heart. This one could re-inspire your love for our spiky blue 
 hero.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alidallal
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  After many 3D installments and the introduction of the innovative Wii-mote motion controls has 
 SEGA been able to avoid its past mistakes and deliver the game we're looking for?
  
  Well, the game takes place at the Arabian Nights story where he has to defeat an evil djinn and 
 restore the erased story pages. You will play in seven different worlds where you will have to 
 finish some missions in each world to unlock the next. The first problem I found with the game 
 is the controls; I know it is good to use the wii-mote motion functionality but I didn't find it 
 suitable with sonic as it felt like steering a car which is put on auto drive.
  Another thing I didn't like was the repetition of missions. In each world you will have to do the 
 following missions, first reaching the goal, then defeat certain number of enemies, collect 100 
 rings, don't get defeated, reach the goal with zero rings and so on, and repeat again in the next 
 world but at least the sense of speed is still there.
  
  Something new has been added which is leveling; each time you finish a mission you gain experience 
 points and you level up. When leveling up you learn new abilities which can be equipped before 
 entering any mission. That is a nice addition I have to say.
  
  Graphically the game looks good with no frame rate issues and musically it is the usual rock style 
 music that we started hearing since sonic turned into 3D.
  
  At the end I have to say that this isn't a bad game as you will enjoy the blue speedy hedgehog 
 but not for a long time. And I believe new comers might enjoy the game more than sonic fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelove1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  
  
  As sonic has come over the years he has evolved like any game into 3-D. But after that his games 
 decreased in value and speed. I am one of the remaining people that are sonic fans. But finally 
 sega made up for their work in the past with Sonic and the secret rings. 
  
  In sonic and the secret rings the genie of the ring, Sharha, comes and tells sonic that an evil 
 man called the Erazor Djjin is destroying the page of the arabian knights and will soon get out 
 and destroy sonic's world. So he jumps into the world of the arabian knights to save them. 
  
  In this world the gamelay is great. It brings back the sense of speed that the original had 
 with a twist. Sonic moves auto matically getting closer to his top speed as long as he doesn't 
 jump or get hurt then he'll start at his slowest pace. You move him left to right by tilting the 
 wiimote left to right. This is a great way to bring back speed but sometimes the controls don't 
 respond. 
  
  The game gets frusterating at times when you don't know what to do but especially at the boss levels. 
 You'll spend more time on boss levels than you will play the rest of the game. It's like a trial 
 and error basis. With this though the enemies and bosses were designed very well. 
  
  And the graphics are so beautiful in the levels you play through. this could actually be what HD 
 looks like on the wii. But the levels are even better. They have very fun and challenging obsticles 
 that always leave you stunned. But it gets annoying. Their's a real level that takes you through 
 the story and then to get to the end of the game you must complete tasks that take you back to 
 sections of the level.
  
  And the mini games are fun and intuitive but lack the graphical power of the adventure mode. Which 
 is dissapointing and makes you fell like it was a last minute project.
  
  If your a sonic fan, past sonic fan, or just love the arabian knights then I highly reccomend this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soniccomics
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is inovative in it's control. Sonic runs foward automaticlly while you turn him left 
 an right, maybe backwards, and make him faster or slower. If you press 2 you jump and 1 you brake. 
 Then you use the homing attack by moving the Wii remote foward. While the controls are good sometimes 
 they don't work (especially when you're trying to use a homing attack or move foward in midair 
 to save yourself-they just seem to give out in those moments. It has a good storyline though if 
 you know the Arabian Nights you might understand it better. The Last Story is especially good. 
 The game has a good levels that required for you to play through and it has enough side levels 
 to keep you occupied after you beat it. However some missons (especially the head to heads) are 
 annoying. The cutscenes are pretty good done in a comic book style. The graphics are pretty good 
 and the new ring RPG kind of thing is cool. I haven't played enough of the party games to give 
 a full review on them but the little I have played was good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hydr017
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 4:49 am PT
Review:  Now here we have another game where the developers didn't put enough effort into it, thus making 
 it half as good as it could've been. Basically it's an arabian nights theme that throws the game 
 a bit out of whack, allowing the creation of all sorts of twists and turns, the plotline is nice 
 though a little thin, cinematics are lacking depth and are just a bunch of moving pictures with 
 somewhat poor voice acting. The music is an alright twist though it gets rather annoying over time, 
 not as good as some of the previous games such as Sonic Heroes. Now to the gameplay, the movement 
 is rather well done for one of Wii's first releases though it can get a bit sensitive and annoying 
 at times and on the odd occasion some things don't register but you get that with new technology, 
 as I said this doesn't occur often. All in all it's a decent game but they just didn't put enough 
 work into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetruth7
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  -Responsive Wii controls
  -It's all Sonic
  -Fast and fun levels
  -Very good graphics
  -Fun boss battles.
  - Lots of things to collect
  
  Cons:
  
  -Can 
 get too hard
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Is Sonic on the Wii actually good? No... it's GREAT! It's all Sonic, all speed. 
  Wii controls are very good. Boss battles are unique and fun. There's lots of sidequests to make 
 the game last pretty long. My only complaint was the difficulty level which made the game feel 
 like a "trial and error" type...
  
  Overall, this is the best Sonic since the Genesis games. Definitely a must get especially since 
 it's probably only 20 dollars by now!
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlfowler
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  While SatSR is fast moving, this quick pace you keep can make you miss important stuff like Fire 
 Souls and other stuff. This is where other skills come in. In SatSR, you can actually customize 
 the skills you use, like a boost move you use at the start of the level called the Rocket Start. 
 Sonic is, unfortunately, not played by Ryan Drummond, but the guy who does him on Sonic X. Everyone 
 wants Ryan back, I know. This is a setback, that is countered with a comeback. 
  The multiplayer mode (a set of minigames) may be a minor part of the whole that is SatSR, but it 
 contributes to its greatness. While in the world of the Arabian Nights, you meet many famous characters 
 from the tales (who bear stunning resemblenses to OTHER characters... ;) ) . All in all, SatSR is 
 a great game. One more thing I would like to cover though, is the SECRET boss.
  Imagine this. You are an interested gamer, and you find out there is more to come after you defeat 
 the Erazor Djinn. You search and search, but can't find anything. I will not reveal how to get 
 to the SECRET boss, and I will not reveal who the SECRET boss is. You'll have to figure that out 
 for yourself.
  As I've said, SatSR is a great game, and the fast-paced action is an everlasting thrill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anton10000
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  In order for me to deliver a truly honest review, I must admit one thing before I continue. I didn't 
 actually finish the game before setting out to write this here review, but I have a good excuse. 
 I lost the will to live numerous times while playing this game, and the fact that the final boss 
 fight was nearly broken simply forced me to give up, which was a real shame as Sonic and the Secret 
 Rings, even with all its flaws, delivers some truly excellent moments.
  
  The average yarn found a Sonic game is never expected to push the boundary of videogame narrative, 
 but Secret Rings' storyline is exceptionally bad. Somehow, Sonic has been transported into the 
 world of the story of the Arabian Nights, and soon discovers that the world is in peril from an 
 evil fellow called the "Erazor Djinn" who is trying to collect the seven world rings to destroy 
 the world. Along the way, Sonic will meet some familiar faces such as Eggman, Tails and Knuckles 
 who appear as characters from the ancient tales. While the cameos may sound interesting on paper, 
 in motion, the story fails in every way conceivable. Bad voice acting, horrid script and a jumbled 
 and messy timeline create a confused and incredibly hard to follow storyline.
  
  While the gameplay isn't as bad as the story, it is still very patchy. Sonic and the Secret Rings 
 fully integrates the Wiimote for every action needed. In order to move Sonic from left to right, 
 the Wiimote is tilted horizontally in the desired direction. Sometimes, in a somewhat idiosyncratic 
 nature to the Sonic franchise, Sonic will have to stop or even reverse, and this is done by tilting 
 the Wiimote backwards. Sonic can also perform charged jumps, speed boosts, attack jumps and various 
 other manoeuvres, but these usually have to be bought with the experience gained during missions. 
 It seems however that Sega got a bit carried away with this system, and nearly completely crippled 
 Sonic thanks to it. You see, to make Sonic go even faster, you have to buy an application after 
 playing for a bit. Doesn't that seem a little odd? Having to wait around for ages to get Sonic 
 to be fast? 
  
  When Sonic does eventually get up to speed is when the game truly shines for a short while, and 
 the game is good fun when you're just speeding along, discovering a new level, with no worries, 
 and just simply enjoying yourself like you did with the original Sonic on the Megadrive. Soon though, 
 you are dragged straight back down to Earth thanks to even more issues with the gameplay. The aforementioned 
 controls have a nasty habit of only working when they want to, and the game only has seven different 
 levels, which can all be done within a few minutes each; it's just that you are forced to play 
 the same levels dozens of time performing many menial tasks. The camera can also be a huge issue 
 when Sonic is reversing, leading to many an unnecessary death.
  
  Sonic is however proficient at all times in one department: presentation. Secret Rings is the owner 
 of a constantly smooth frame rate, which really helps to give the game a sense of speed which other 
 3D Sonic outings have lacked. Character models are well done, and the levels which Sonic speeds 
 through are varied and vibrant.
  
  While Sonic's visuals are a definite step up from most Wii games, the same can't be said in any 
 regard to the game's soundtrack. Sonic's voice is still as irritating as ever, but what really 
 grinds on your nerves after about 20 seconds is the absolutely atrocious song list that Sega compiled 
 for Secret Rings. The entire compilation of music is an uneasy mix of rock, dance and rap, and 
 with some of the worst lyrics seen this side of the Spice Girls. There is one song however that 
 will haunt you forever, as Sega thought it would be fun for gamers playing Secret Rings to hear 
 after every single mission, and during the menus, and whenever you're not actually playing. The 
 song, which is known by some as "Make believe some noise", will make you sick after the first time 
 you've heard it.
  
  Sonic is also a short game, and its very mixed nature means that all the extra missions which aren't 
 needed, go to waste, as there's no desire left in you to carry on for more time than you absolutely 
 must. The main game is only about 6 hours long, but that's plenty once you're done with it. There 
 is also a poor Mario Party clone tacked on to add a multiplayer mode, but you would be advised 
 to stay well away from it if you value your friends.
  
  Closing Comments: Sonic and the Secret Rings is an incredibly mixed bag. While it can be great 
 fun once it gets going, getting to that cherished speed which the series was once famous for is 
 a painful process which will leave you with more than a few scars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendoguy325
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  This Sonic game is unlike any of the other Sonic games out there. Its starts off with Sonic the 
 Hedgehog reading The Arabian Nights (don't know what that is? What's wrong with you?!) , when a 
 genie comes out and takes him into the story. 
  The gameplay is pretty simple. The game moves on rails, so the only movement you use is tilting 
 the Wii remote left and right. To jump you press 2, and to attack you shake the remote. While it 
 sounds simple, it can get very hard. Sonic doesn't exactly move immediately, and mixed with the 
 speed you can achieve, you will find yourself flying off canyons and to your doom. Though it's 
 difficult at times, it's also immensely satisfying when you clear a stage that you spent hours 
 on. The RPG element is a nice touch, letting you customize Sonic to the situation. 
  Graphics overall are very nice, with just a few minor glitches here and there. The scenery is very 
 nice to watch zoom by as you reach light speed. The music helps compliment the many areas you fly 
 through, as well. Voice is easily heard and well done.
  There is plenty of unlockables, allowing you spend hours on trying to achieve them. Multiplayer 
 is a good addition as well. If your a Sonic fan, or just looking for a challenge and you own a 
 Wii, pick up Sonic and the Secret Rings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therealshezman
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 30, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  I was always a sonic fan. Love sonic, sonic 2, adventure, adventure battle 2... I was looking forward 
 to playing this game even thought the "alladin" story was thrown in. I wish I had let that put 
 me off.
  
  The graphics in this game are quite impresive. It seems like sonic team got a bit lazy though, 
 the cut sceen's were scetches with hideous voice acting. why not at least give us somethig to watch 
 sega?
  
  The music in this slur on sonics name will drive you bonkers. It's just nasty rocky music, I for 
 one always loved the cheesy J-pop of the dreamcast sonics, added to the whole package. Yet here 
 sega seem to try to cling to modern culture without success.
  
  Gamplay is almost non-existant. Players tilt the wii remote left and right! tilt the remote left 
 and right... thats all one of the longest running game producers could come up with. Sorry press 
 down on the d-pad to break, oh yeah a to jump. I'm sorry but that just don't cut it in my eye's. 
 There is no choice for the player to move around what seem huge worlds, just follow set path to 
 the goal. some of the level's will have you running towards the screen, mmmh good idea, have to 
 admit I never did like to see were I was going!
  
  The only redeeming part of this game is the multi player option, it's a bit like mario party games 
 minus the board. Most of the games included here arn't up to much either except fo one that see's 
 our spikey haired hero and chums atop high platform swining large mace like object at each others 
 plat forms till one collapses, this game alone could mabye convince me to part with a fiver, tops!
 
  
  If a developer can't think of something realy uniqe to do with the wii's remote and nunchuck the 
 should try to remeber there is a classic controller and even the gamecube pad. Just make a good 
 game with standard control's. Not to much to ask is it?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PatrickGunwhale
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  The title explains it all. Sonic is on a brand new adventure and this time, it's about the secret 
 rings. It's game's like these that make Sonic fans wait and wait till the next sonic game. If Sonic 
 could make such a good game that is unique to the rest of the collection, couldn't Mario have an 
 adventure game that doesn't involve him getting some stupid stars?! Though Mario Sunshine, 64, 
 and Galaxy are all great games, couldn't they make Mario do something else besides looking for 
 some stupid stars?! Anyways, Sonic and the Secret Rings is a great game that is sure to delight 
 your whole family. This game also has great music, graphics, and backrounds. This game is much 
 better then some stupid "Super Paper Mario" I mean what the heck. They are making a "2-D" game 
 on the Wii? This is one of the many reasons that Sonic Unleashed should have view like Sonic and 
 the Secret Rings. IT IS WAY BETTER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keyboarder20
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game because it was half-price when bought with the Wii remote battery charger. I 
 have never been a big Sonic fan. To my suprise i enjoy to play this game so much that i find putting 
 down the remote a real problem. I think this game is fun whilst giving you a good challenge to 
 beat the levels and improve your scores. I don`t think this is a game for casual players because 
 you have to try a lot of times before you get a good score. In spite of that i am not getting bored 
 at all, in fact i am having a lot of fun. I also like the graphics a lot. They are very colorful 
 and artistic. I also like the controls. I find them very easy and straight forward to use. The 
 mini games are also fun to play with my family and friends. Having said all that this game is not 
 perfect but no game is perfect. Anyway is up to you if you buy this game or not but as far as i 
 am concerned this is one of my favourite platform games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  This game realy is broken...... There isn't a nicer way to put it, it's just broken, It has horrible 
 controls and horrible gameplay. But other then that, it is a great game. All of the game is great 
 except the controls, which realy ruins the game. And the voice acting is realy realy horrible. It's 
 like they asked a ho-bo to come talk for sonic for food.
  
  good: visuals are great and the videos are over the top.
  level disign is good.
  long enough 
 story.
  mini games.
  
  bad: controls out-right don't work and are un-resposive.
  mini games are terrible.
  controls are soo bad they make the game almost unplayable.
  voice 
 acting will make your ears bleed.
  
  If the controls were good, this game could have easily gotten a 9.0 but gamplay being the most important 
 part of a game and the gameplay is out-right horrible in this game, it almost makes it unplayable. Rent 
 it, if you like it then........ wow...... I would be suprised. If you don't, then join the club, bacuse 
 your money would be better spent anywhere else. Go buy galaxy or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stupid_Alien
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings is a great game for those starting out with the Wii or who just want 
 to test the Wii's controls. You hold the Wii Remote sideways for the main game and anyother way 
 the game tells you, for mini games. The story here is that an entity called Erazor Djinn tries 
 to rewrite the Arabian Nights book, and a genie named Shahra helps Sonic get the Seven World Rings 
 in order to stop the curse placed upon Sonic by Erazor. This game plays much differently than Sonic's 
 2-D games, but better than Sonic's other 3-D games. First off, they got rid of the life system, 
 so you have unlimited lifes (for certain missions, anyways.) The story progresses like a book, 
 and you need to beat certain stages, or paragraphs, to get to the next world. Some worlds have 
 bosses, some have harder missions, and you get to choose which ones you do first, with some limitations. 
 Like most Sonic games, there are two endings here, one without the Seven Rings, and one with all 
 of them. I won't go into detail with them. Through out the game, you won't just feel like you're 
 doing a mission but actually enjoying it as well. With more power-ups along the way, you'll feel 
 more comfrotable. The multiplayer is also good, if you have buddies. Now for the downsides. There 
 are only three though. The biggest problem is that the controls will get you killed some times, 
 and they're hard to fully use as well. The controls add more hardness to the game, which is simply 
 easy to begin with. Then there's the things you need to complete to unlock some minor things, such 
 as multiplayer stuff and art. I'm sorry, but getting 100 or some red souls isn't worth it to get 
 Blaze. Another thing, why put in characters who aren't going to be in the story, but in the multiplayer? 
 Sonic, Tails, and Knuckles are the only ones who were there, none of the other 5 were. And why 
 bring Blaze to the game? Silver was enough. They should've put Rouge in there instead. Oh, and 
 all the characters in multiplayer are the exact same. Period. My last thing is that you only get 
 to play as Sonic through the game. You'll never get to play as anyone else. No one. You don't even 
 get the chance to see Shahra do anything. They could've at least made her playable for a little 
 bit. Well, despite the bad controls, this game is great. Go play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kieranb2000
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  After the bad reception of Sonic 360/PS3 Sega's mascot is back once more, this time on the Wii. 
 Sonic is also treading lightly on the line that separates 3D and 2D with his on rails... platformer? 
 Action game? I'm not entirely sure what category it falls under... But it's a good game. Almost 
 definately the best 3D Sonic game, pushing aside the mediocre PS3,360, GC, Dreamcast, Master System 
 and Sega Saturn iterations.
  
  Gameplay: First lets talk about the controls. I, personally have had very few problems with the 
 controls. The motion sensing for homing attacks and moving around are all extremely responsive. 
 I have however had a few odd glitches where my homing attack hasn't been picked up but these times 
 were few and far apart. Unfortunately for most people the controls in this game have an extremely 
 long learning curve and most people will give up with the game before they finish the second level.
 
  However after the controls become familiar you will be flying through the 7 worlds of the Arabian 
 Nights, collecting World Rings and defeating enemies. Figuratively speaking of course, the game 
 starts off slower than Link wearing Iron Boots. This is a problem solved as you progress through 
 levels and are rewarded skills to upgrade Sonic with, speed upgrades, attack upgrades and various 
 other little things that you'll probably use for the related tutorial and nothing else.
  I know this all sounds extremely negative at the moment but trust me, the game gets better as it 
 gets faster and your reflexes are pushed to the limit as you dodge oncoming obstacles while everything 
 is just a blur, of course if you miss an item or something earlier in the level you can always 
 go back but unfortunately with Sonic's newfound camera angle (which for the most part is directly 
 behind Sonic as he runs) going backwards is reduced to nothing but hopping. It seems that those 
 magicians over at Sonic Team managed to magic up another broken camera. How can you break an on-rails 
 camera? Easy, allow the player to go backwards but don't allow the camera to ever turn round! Thus 
 the player cannot see behind him and voila, broken camera. Luckily you wont need to go backwards 
 often.
  Gameplay: 6/10
  
  Next up, Story. Now this is where Secret Rings really gets strange. The basic plotline is this, 
 after sitting down with his trusty smoking pipe (not really) Sonic decides to read the Arabian 
 Nights. However he is sucked into the book by a the Genie of the Ring "Shahra" who explains that 
 the evil Erazor Djinn is erasing the stories in Arabian Nights one by one! You go to face Erazor 
 and teach him what's what and he shoots Sonic with an arrow! Ohnoes. And that's not all, the arrow 
 is cursed! And so it'll continue to burn away until it either kills Sonic or is removed. Of course 
 Erazor isn't going to just pull it is he? So he offers Sonic a deal, bring him the 7 world rings 
 in return for his life. Then he disappears and Sonic runs off to find him. Also, Tails, Eggman, 
 Knuckles and others make cameos as various characters from the book.
  And that's the plot. No joke, that's all. There are no plot twists or anything apart from Shahra 
 appearing to have some kind of emotional connection to Erazor...
  Story: 5/10
  
  Graphics-wise Secret Rings is one of the most beautiful games on the Wii. It's 7 enviroments are 
 unique and brilliantly detailed, from the whisping sands of the desert to the large marble interior 
 (and exterior) of Erazor's fortress/mansion/temple thing. Everything is brilliantly animated, with 
 Sonic's spines moving as he jumps and the giant golem enemy lurching around brilliantly.
  The only problem I have with Secret Ring's graphics is a minor one, during the intro to every level 
 a countdown from 3 shows up and as each number ticks down the game zooms in on Sonic slightly more. 
 The first and second level of zoom show off the beautiful graphics but dear god, the third level 
 of zoom makes me want to gouge my eyes out. With a spork. And this is at the beginning of EVERY 
 LEVEL.
  Graphics: 8.5/10
  
  What's that? A whole positive section? I can't have that. Time for Replay value then. Sonic and 
 The Secret Ring's Replay value is pretty sparce. You'll complete the game (if you do that, the 
 last few levels are bloody hard) and then what? There's the multiplayer mode, which is Mario Party-ish 
 and has sometimes wonky controls. While it boasts 40 mini-games i've yet to see them all this is 
 because I've not played multiplayer in the mode that lets you select your own minigames yet and 
 the computer tends to only pick between same 4 games over and over. Occasionaly throwing in one 
 of the better games.
  So is that it? Just multiplayer for replay value? No, there are also unlockables. You can unlock 
 characters and minigames... for multiplayer... And you can unlock the final-final boss to fight...
 
  6/10
  
  Gameplay: 6/10, Buggy controls and another broken camera stops this Sonic game being as good as 
 it could be.
  
  Story: 5/10, Linear, and horrible. It has the most dramatic pinky promise ever commited to game, 
 not sure if that's a good thing or a bad thing though...
  
  Graphics: 8.5/10, beautiful. I'm sure the Wii could do better though.
  
  Replay-Value: 6/10, 
 you can unlock multiplayer stuff and the final boss fight... You could go back and get a Gold medal 
 in every mission but trust me, you wont want to.
  
  Overall Sonic and The Secret Rings is the best 3D Sonic game so far but truth be told that isn't 
 saying much. It has many control problems to begin with and at times is extremely difficult. Overall 
 though, it's fun.
  6.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leynthris
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 15, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  I'm gonna sum this up in five words: DO. NOT. BUY. THIS. GAME.
  
  There are so many inappropriate, horrible things I could say about this game, but let's just l 
 review this game.
  
  The Controls: The Wii remote feels very awkward sideways. To me, it's like trying to perform surgery 
 on Trauma Center with the remote upside-down. Anyway, the Sonic team should have put some serious 
 forethought into the control scheme. I was struggling with the controls the first 30 minutes of 
 playtime, and just when I think I have the hang of it, Sonic jumps into a pit. Awesome. Also, why 
 oh WHY do I need to earn points to make the controls better? It's like replacing my computer with 
 an old Windows '98 and telling me that in order to get my computer back, I have to somehow perform 
 complicated calculations on the old computer. IT'S A STUPID CONCEPT. If I play a game, I need control 
 over my character,
  
  The Music: Why did they make every single menu and screen have the same music? It's frustrating. 
 Sometimes I'll play the game with no sound to get past that annoying gibberish.
  
  The Graphics: They were alright. Pretty much the only redeeming quality of this game. 
  
  The 
 Plot. THE PLOT WAS STUPID. "Hi, I'm supposed to be a genie or something. Come with me, blue hedgehog, 
 because a hedgehog is somehow our last hope. I'M GOING TO MAKE YOUR LIFE MISERA- I mean EXCITING!!!" 
 
  
  
  
  It may bear the Sonic name, but this is by far the worst in the entire series. Avoid this game 
 at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xela8
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 26, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  Practically the worse games of all first the Sega cheated on 1991-1996 of Sonic the hedgehog the 
 early 2000s they didn't cheat on and now they start cheating on late 2000s witch means 2007 for 
 Sonic and the secret rings to make it very hard and frustrating. I wanted this game so much cause 
 it was pretty fun on the commercial but very disappointing and it has very bad camera angles and 
 I almost got very worried from the frustration after I finished with the game and I came out the 
 room feeling extremely frustrated after that. I bearly herd that most people really like this game 
 and I do not appreciate that. PLEASE PUT THE RATING DOWN do not ever buy this for kids! Don't even 
 rent it even for yourself! This game has got to be a fairy tale since they change Tails name to 
 Ali baba and Knuckles for Sinbad and Sonic is the only same name in this crazy Sonic series and 
 Shara with Sonic? This is a fairy tale and the Pirate strom level really frustrates the hell out 
 of me also the wind level I forgot the name. This games should be rating changed to E10+ and I 
 hope they shouldn't have had this game out for the PS3 for better controls
  
  STUPID SEGA CHEATER!
  
  tpn I also agree with leynthris
  FAVORITE PART OF REVIEW: Avoid this 
 game at all cost 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariojoe
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Oh Sega, what has happened to my beloved Sonic series?
  You know, Sonic Adventure and Sonic Adventure 2 were pretty good actually, (Sonic the Hedgehog 
 for XBox 360 and PS3 sucked though) so you think I would like this. Unfortunately, this is not 
 true.
  Let's start with the controls. You simply turn the wii-mote like a steering wheel to turn, jump 
 with 2, and do a homing attack by pushing the wii-mote out. How could you screw this up? Well, 
 first of all, you can only go straight. If you wanna go back, you have to sommersault over and 
 over and over, but you'll usually end up hitting an enemy or going off a cliff because you can't 
 see where you're going! Also, the homing attack doesn't work all the time. Sometimes, it just doesn't 
 home in, you hit the enemy, and lose your coins. Oh yeah, the steering is also really lose.
  The game is also very repetitive. You have to go over the same levels over and over, only with 
 different objectives. You see, the first time you go over a level, it's a simple beginning to end. 
 But then you do it again except with an objective like "Don't collect any coins" or "don't break 
 any pots". Then you go over the level with a different objective again, and again, and again. These 
 should be sidequests, not mandatory. However, you must do this over and over for 7 or so worlds.
 
  Seriously, this is a huge disappointment. If you are a big Sonic fan you can rent it, but $50 
 is a bit much for this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nulvix
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  Sonic's role in this game is very off-topic. Sonic is facing someone other than Eggman which takes 
 away from the classic story line we're used to, and what's worse? The story rushes us in without 
 any warning. Sonic's asleep, and all of a sudden a genie pops out of a book asking for his help, 
 he agrees, we find out Erazor wants rings, we collect rings, don't know what they do, and somehow 
 sonic's life is bound to a little flame. How deep.
  
  To sort this whole mess out, I'll continue with the story line. The whole game has you side-tracking 
 and doing odd tasks that are completely irrelevant to the main plot. For example, sonic has to 
 go through a mission where he cannot break any jars, or he has to break 5 jars. There's even one 
 where he has to put eggs in a nest. The really stupid ones are where you have to collect 100 rings. 
 Absolutely no relevance whatsoever. Not only that, but when the story line IS followed, it's unbelievably 
 short. This is just nuts. We don't get any explanation of what the rings are, who the Erazor is, 
 why we got hrought he pointless missions, etc. The story is shallow and off-topic, and the side 
 missions are a pain.
  
  Now, the gameplay. The missions are easy, the level-up system is ridiculous, and the 'skill' system 
 is also the same way. Why can't sonic just be like he used to be? Not to mention the controls. 
 Ugh... automatic movement makes it harder to avoid contact with enemies, an unresponsive jumping 
 motion makes it even more difficult, and slippery side-to-side movements can mean your doom. It's 
 beyond hard to play. I remember spending over an hour trying to get trough one mission because 
 I couldn't get sonic to jump at the right time. It just gets so annoying, it's unbearable!
  I just can't operate sonic with a sideways wii remote.
  
  Now, the music, not bad but could 
 use a little less repetitiveness. I'm not a fan of rock either, and this is pure rock. In the other 
 sonic games it was bearable because it fit the background and it sounded right for the mission's 
 atmosphere. Here it sounds like a desperate attempt to fill the levels with music without spending 
 much time composing. The voice acting wasn't bad though.
  
  On top of all that, the characters aren't really satisfying. There's no Tails sidekick, Eggman 
 is now an innocent King (just what we need) , Knuckles is some guy named Sinbad, and we're followed 
 around by a genie that can't do anything for you except get a bunch of tissues for sonic's cold. 
 Sonic is also portrayed as more of a boasting character as well. He goes on and on about his incredible 
 speed and how he'll whoop Erazor's hide and that he'll save the place in not time 'cause he's 'Sonic 
 the Hedgehog'. And he doesn't look good in the story's 'pages', or in other words the cut scenes 
 that look like it's pictures from a book.
  
  The game did have a relatively well done party mode, but you require multiple controllers and there 
 is no wi-fi. The graphics were good but were often confusing, especially int he Foundry course. 
 Sometimes I couldn't tell what was what. The customization for the rings sonic can wear was also 
 a nice added feature, but even so, I think he should just be able to perform them all without needing 
 to add them onto his fingers. I liked him better as a regular hedgehog with speed. 
  
  Although it was a well-rated game, I think that it's highly overrated and people need to take a 
 second look at sega's crashing games. I really hope they do better int he future, but this was 
 not a game that could have given them an advantage. Overall the game was very poorly made and awkward 
 to play and look at. Sega needs to focus on the good-old Eggman plots and keep it simple. These 
 intricate plots and designs and characters they're coming up with is damaging them more than helping. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockstar_88
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 4, 2008 5:24 am PT
Review:  Sonic games have always been some of the best platforming games of the 2D era, but in the last 
 decade, the 3D world has not been as kind to the series. Sonic and the Secret Rings is yet another 
 attempt by the Sonic Team to create a true 3D Sonic experience, and while Sonic and the Secret 
 Rings can be fun, the frustrating control mechanics makes it hard to recommend to anyone but the 
 most hardcore of fans.
  
  Sonic's adventure takes place within the Arabian Nights. The story unfolds in a half-baked comic 
 book style presentation on grainy paper texture backdrop, which is not very compelling way to get 
 involved into the story especially since it's accompanied by some horrific voice acting, a ear-popping-ly 
 bad soundtrack, and an overall uninteresting story. To those that have been playing the 3D games 
 for a while, this may be nothing new, but at this day and age, we usually hope for something better 
 in terms of presentation. The premise is pretty simple: Sonic is called for help by the genie Shahra, 
 who tells him that the world of the Arabian Nights is being threatened by an evil genie named of 
 Erazor Djinn. After running into him, Erazor Djinn casts a flame arrow onto Sonic's chest, which 
 basically becomes a ticking time bomb. When that flame is extinguished, his life will be exterminated 
 unless he finds the Seven World Rings hidden throughout the pages of the book. Sounds somewhat 
 cliched? It is. Despite your initial belief, no you do not need to collect the seven rings to make 
 it to the final boss, although if you want to get the real ending, you're tasked with actually 
 collecting those rings, and that requires you to complete all of the missions. 
  
  The game dumps you into seven distinct worlds (excluding the training world) , each with their own 
 missions to complete. While it does not seem all that difficult, for those that are looking for 
 an easy pick-up-and-play game will come to realize that while learning the controls is fairly easy, 
 the rest of the game has a unfair learning curve. In order for you to advance into the story, you 
 must complete missions in certain worlds in order for you to unlock more worlds. Unfortunately 
 the mission structure of the game doesn't necessarily explain to you how this works, and you're 
 left to figure it all out on your own. Oftentimes the first mission always gives you the full tour 
 of the world, minus the placement of obstacles and enemies, which generate differently on different 
 missions. The corresponding missions require that you complete certain objectives, which are pretty 
 straightforward once you get the hang of it since these missions repeat themselves in each world 
 (you'll know to remember them because the ones you hate will stick with you until you're done or 
 call it quits on this game) . At the completion of each mission, the game reviews how well you did 
 and rewards you experience and skill points. While you do gain skill abilities, the catch is that 
 you can't use them all unless you have enough skill points. Entering each mission requires that 
 you carefully equip the skills useful to completing it.
  
  The bulk of the gameplay relies mainly on the Wii's motion controls, which makes the experience 
 unique but frustrating as well. While this may not seem all that apparent in early missions, the 
 later part of the game demands more from you, and lots of times the motion controls can't keep 
 up. Adding to the loose controls is the way the game poorly handles Sonic as a controllable character. 
 As you have no power over his forward momentum, you're going to have to be patient with the idea 
 that Sonic does not operate well when he slows down, and pretty much if you get hit, you're probably 
 going to die in the most idiotic way possible. It may seem like I'm being quite harsh, but when 
 a game uses a level-up system that actually improves your ability to control Sonic, it does make 
 you raise an eyebrow. What kind of game requires you to level up so you can have better controls? 
 Worst yet every time you gain these aforementioned skills, you have to readjust accordingly, which 
 becomes quite a hassle. 
  
  Overall the gameplay design is flawed. It can be a blast when it works in your favor, but can be 
 extremely frustrating when it doesn't cooperate, which is most of the time. If you have the patience 
 enough to beat all the missions, let alone the main game itself, I have to salute you for your 
 patience. I've beaten the game to the bare minimum that its required me to beat, but the frustration 
 of getting it done was not worth it. My only recommendation is if you hate being frustrated and 
 you know it's not your fault to blame but the game's, stay far away from Sonic and the Secret Rings. 
 Far away. It's not your idea of a magic carpet ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shellltor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Lucky for this game it's on the Wii because in all the levels u constantly move the Wiimote forward 
 so it gets to be a lot of fun. Also the graphics aren't that bad because too many people base games 
 on graphics. the thing is they could haded something better then a comic book format when they 
 told the story that is where they went wrong it made the last part of the story special with awesome 
 graphics and motion but it was still a mistake. Also it is too much of an effort to get fire souls 
 I got shadow but I had too use that reused in the first level sometimes. Other then that it is 
 still a fun game thats under appreciated.
  The story format may be horrible but not the story (and the theme because it's a good song) the 
 world rings don't really take the place of the chaos emeralds because this time Sonic turns into 
 Darkspine Sonic which is special compered to Super Sonic you know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 26, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't really a gamer back in the years of Sega's consoles, so I never really experienced what 
 many would call a "true" Sonic game. Since I've been playing games, it's been Nintendo all the 
 way with me -- I would take the portly Italian plumber of that blue hedgehog any day. But as time 
 passed, I just couldn't resist the appeal of the Sonic games. So, when Sonic Rush was finally released 
 on the Nintendo DS, I felt I had to pick it up. I won't say too much about that now because I'm 
 still working on it and I think it's too early to give a real opinion, but I'll say that my first 
 impressions were definitely negative ones. And then comes along Sonic and the Secret Rings on the 
 Nintendo Wii. I got wise and decided to rent it, and now I'm on the lookout to make this game my 
 own.
  
  Upon starting up this game, you're quickly thrust into a plot that, gathering from my rather limited 
 knowledge of all things Sonic, is quite atypical for the series, for two reasons. First off is 
 the fact that Secret Rings does a fairly good job of really taking a step in a new, inventive direction 
 in terms of story telling. In all the few Sonic games I've played, the basic story is something 
 along the lines of, "Dr. Eggman is up to something evil, Sonic needs to stop him." Well, this time 
 around, Sonic is visited by a genie from the classic work Arabian Nights who tells him an evil 
 being, Erazor Djinn, is taking over the world encased by the book. So, it's up to Sonic to find 
 out what's going on and stop Erazor Djinn. In addition, however, tons of Sonic characters make 
 appearances, but they're all playing the part of a character in the book and don't actually recognize 
 Sonic. It's a cool set-up and works surprisingly well.
  
  The downside to all this? Well, the way that the story is told is incredibly lazy. Rather than 
 opting to go for animated cutscenes to impart the game's plot to the player, Sonic Team has instead 
 decided to tell the game's story via some story-book-esque constructions. The artwork is faded 
 and lacks the vibrant color that has made the graphics of recent Sonic games so enjoyable. The 
 text scrolls down at the bottom of the screen, and even within the storybook frames, there's hardly 
 any movement -- at all. It's really disappointing, and I know that fans of the game will stand 
 behind Sonic Team's choice, that it makes it seem like this is all a book. Well, personally I believe 
 that to be an excuse for the development team's laziness, because the presentation of the story 
 could have been loads better. Admittedly, there are a few animated cut scenes, and they look absolutely 
 fantastic, but sadly these are few and far between.
  
  Don't get confused, however, and take this to mean that the game's graphics are poor, because nothing 
 could be further from the truth. Rather, Secret Rings is actually one of the best-looking games 
 on the Wii. It's not going to win any records, up against titles like Super Mario Galaxy and Metroid 
 Prime 3: Corruption, but the fact remains that this is definitely one of the prettier-looking titles 
 on the Wii. Sonic himself looks excellent, especially as you progress further into the game and 
 can fly through levels. Environments are also very nice-looking and quite distinct, an aspect of 
 graphical design that many games don't always get right. That is to say, each of the game's worlds 
 are obviously different from each other, and they all look good to some degree -- some look downright 
 fantastic. Additionally, the cut scenes mentioned earlier look beautiful on the Wii, an impressive 
 feat considering the system's position as the least powerful (graphically, anyway) of the current-generation 
 consoles.
  
  Game play is where the game really starts to get rolling, and at the same time starts to run into 
 some significant problems. The game is divided up into worlds, which were briefly mentioned above, 
 and each of which have their own distinct feel. Much like classic 3D Mario platformers, there are 
 a number of levels in each world -- the area you're playing in stays the same, although different 
 levels have you playing through different parts of that locale. The levels themselves don't vary 
 much; for example, each world has multiple levels that have essentially the same goal. For example, 
 sometimes you'll have to defeat a certain number of enemies, collect a certain amount of rings, 
 or even defeat no enemies at all, while others simply have you run through a level without any 
 specific goal in mind, aside from reaching the finish line.
  
  The game's controls are one of the real problems, for the simple reason that sometimes they just 
 don't really work. The game is all about simplicity, and some of the most important actions are 
 just that, in a very good way. For example, Sonic along rails automatically, and you can tilt the 
 remote left and right for Sonic to run in that direction. Jumping is also easy to do, and involves 
 just tapping the 2 button, or pressing and holding the button for a longer jump. Attacking is a 
 kind of iffy action, because it involves shaking the Wii Remote when the automatic cursor on an 
 enemy changes from green to red. Problem is, this mechanic doesn't always really seem to work, 
 so sometimes by the time you've performed this action, the cursor has already disappeared, so Sonic 
 flies off in the wrong direction -- and usually into space, causing you to have to replay the level. 
 Additionally, the fact that Sonic is constantly moving can cause some problems when you're navigating 
 tricky platforming parts. The 1 button is a break and is used occasionally in some obstacle challenges, 
 but it's pretty stupid that you've got to break on a platform to ensure that Sonic doesn't run 
 off the edge. Finally, you can pull back on the remote to get Sonic to move backwards, and this 
 is an important and necessary action, but it's not responsive and oftentimes doesn't work.
  
  That said, though, Sonic and the Secret Rings manages to be a lot of fun, for the most part. 
 The sense of speed is really fantastic, and there are few Wii gaming experiences out there that 
 are more fun than flying through a level in Secret Rings, effortlessly steering around obstacles, 
 flying over gaps, and destroying enemies. It's fast, fun, intuitive, and what I perceive to be 
 what the Sonic experience is all about. If that's in fact the case, then Sonic and the Secret Rings 
 has succeeded hugely. Why? Because in the past Sonic games that I have played, I've never really 
 experienced that fun. The games have always been a chore, and while Secret Rings is by no means 
 perfect, it's core game mechanic is a heck of a lot of fun.
  
  One slight problem, however, that can sometimes detract from the fun you'll have with the game 
 is this title's difficulty level. The game is fairly challenging in and of itself, featuring plenty 
 of enemies (easy enough to kill -- they serve mainly as jumping-points to cross large chasms) , 
 jumping challenges, and navigation requirements. However, where the game runs into a wall is when 
 it throws an annoyingly and unfairly difficult level your way. Often these levels are hard to by-pass, 
 and are so incredibly difficult to beat just because the developers felt like being mean to you. 
 For example, in one level, you're trying to run away from a herd of stampeding dinosaurs -- yet, 
 unless you memorize the stage, there's really no way that you're going to be able to beat it.
 
  
  This leads into, and is directly related to, another big problem with the game: the camera. It's 
 right behind Sonic for 99% of the game, and from this comes things both good and bad. First of 
 all, it definitely does increase the overall sense of speed that you get while playing this game, 
 which is definitely a good thing. But on the opposite end of this spectrum, it's also makes it 
 hard to see upcoming obstacles, which is obviously a huge problem when a big part of the game lies 
 with jumping gaps, destroying enemies, and avoiding environmental obstacles. What's even more annoying 
 and actually compounds the problem is the way in which Sega tries to deal with the issue: by placing 
 invisible obstacles to slow you down. For example, coming up on a few enemies around a bend, there's 
 a log on the ground which automatically stops you, so that you can see the enemies and react. But 
 because of the stupid camera, the developers had to put stuff in the game that destroys the whole 
 fun of it: the speed.
  
  Sonic and the Secret Rings also introduces a surprisingly fun and interesting role playing system. 
 How does a high-speed, no-frills platformer like Sonic possibly mesh with an RPG mechanic? Well, 
 it's actually done quite well. You receive points for beating levels, and these points are then 
 converted to experience. Once you've gained enough experience you'll level up, gain some skill 
 points, and usually learn a new skill. But just learning a skill isn't enough -- you've got to 
 equip it. Each skill has a cost in skill points, and you assign Sonic skills that you think are 
 going to help most during the level. It's a neat system, as many of the skills aren't required 
 but drastically improve your playing experience. Some just give you a ring bonus at the start, 
 while others increase Sonic's speed or turning ability.
  
  There's also a multiplayer option, but it's really not that impressive. Think along the lines of 
 Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz: a bunch of not-so-good minigames that support up to four players. 
 Most of the minigames seem broken or are just plain boring, but if you're looking for a game to 
 play with friends, you may spend a little time messing around with Secret Ring's multiplayer mode. 
 It doesn't do much for the game's replay value, but at the same time it doesn't hugely hurt it. 
 There's also a page-collecting system, where you get "pages" (bonus content, playing off the game's 
 biggest theme) by reaching certain requirements on different levels. Finally, along the lines of 
 replay value, the whole skill system may also boost the time you spend with this game, as levels 
 can be played differently depending on which skills you have equipped.
  
  All told, Sonic and the Secret Rings is a pretty good game. It certainly can't compete with the 
 likes of Super Mario Galaxy in terms of pure platforming fun, and there are a few drawbacks to 
 the game that are, without a doubt, going to frustrate you. But even with that frustration, there's 
 a lot of fun to be had with Secret Rings. It really seems to be returning to Sonic's roots -- that 
 is, it's all about going fast and having fun with a simple, easy to use game mechanic -- and while 
 it's not all the way there yet, it's certainly headed in the right direction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KnightNui
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  SONIC & THE SECRET RINGS- Exclusive Knight-Nui Review
  
  Sonic Lands. 3... 2... 1... GO! Sonic blasts off, into a game that is pretty much make-or-break 
 for SEGA's Mascot in 3D. Can Sonic finaly prove he's ready to take on the Third Dimension after 
 his recent (disappointing) Sonic the Hedgehog on 360 & PS3...
  
  And so, Sonic abandons the Chaos Emeralds, his friends, enemys, and everything else that , and 
 picks up some, erm, RPG Skills. Hope SEGA have thought about this then
  
  .. Well, yes, they have. This is definatly the best 3D Sonic game to date, and could probably (For 
 now, anyway) be named one of the best on Wii. Basicaly, Sonic dashes through incredibly well designed 
 levels with you tilting side to side and jumping with the '2' Button to clear them, plus the added 
 bit of Remote Magic (Waggle) to help him along
  
  But that's the biggest problem. Sonic is on Rails. Theres no more freedom as in Sonic 2 or whatever, 
 he's trapped on a specific path to dash across. While you could argue that in previous games in 
 3D the choise has been so narrow it doesn't make a diffrence. Most the time it works, and it makes 
 thoughs sections where the camra goes wonky that plagued previous Sonic games, (Which are kept 
 to a minimum in here, thankfully) aren't that confusing and don't kill you frequently (We're lokoing 
 at you, Sonic Heroes' Giant Crocodile)
  
  .. Then, like other 3D Sonic games, a Story is tacked on. Unfortunaly this isn't as straight forward 
 as "Robotnic has gone and captured some Animals. Go ahead and save them by gathering some Emeralds" 
 or "An Evil Hdgehog is created. Sonic must stop it going mental and blowing Earth up." no, this 
 is more along the lines of "Some Spirt tells Sonic to enter a book to save the Arabian Nights, 
 so he does and then some evil thing that's erasing storys in books places a curse upon Sonic so 
 he has a Flame on his chest and must find the seven World rings (Hence the name) to get the Erazor 
 Djinn to remove the curse, with lots of other twists along the way". Told it was confusing.
  
  Although this story actualy works well, and is shown in a lot of depth, there are only 2 or 
 3 "Proper" 3D CGI Cutscenes, which are very impressive, so while we see why SEGA Didn't make more, 
 it's a real shame.
  
  As for the RPG Skills we mentioned earlier, these are in the form of "Skill Sets" Which are added 
 onto the Skill Ring. You get 4 different rings to customise, and theres 100 Skills for you to colect, 
 all got Via. Completing more and more missions in the main game. These range from simple things 
 such as a Boost, to more sophisticated skills such as affecting power and jumping abiltys.
  
  There are also a range of Extra modes, from the Main Adventure and the Options screen, they 
 reach out to probably the best, Secret Book, which covers alsorts of unlockables, from Concept 
 art to Adverts, from Music to Videos, from the Storybook Cutscenes to a complete history of Sonic, 
 with all the box art, info and so on about every Sonic game. Then theres Medals, Developer nots 
 and a diary by Big the Cat, oddly.
  
  Last and Certainly least is Mini-Game party, which features 120 unlockable Mini-Games, which seem 
 like some ideas SEGA Had left over after they finished Monkey Ball's Party Mode. While some of 
 these are better, (Pullnig Carpets from under a Trampoling Genie is our Personal Favorate) and 
 some out-do similar games in other Mini-Game Partys (The Baloon Game is an awfull lot beter then 
 the one in Warioware) the majority are boring and uninspiring, and should just be ignored in favour 
 of the Main Game.
  
  
  Overall, this is the sort of game Wii could do with more of. Easy to pick up, Great fun to play, 
 plus lots of Depth in the Gameplay, even if the Mini-Game Party is disappointing, the Controls, 
 Level Design, Extras and pratcicaly everything else are absolutely Spot-On. Well done Sonic, looks 
 like the good old Hedgehog is realy for the Third Dimension after all
  
  91% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 13, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings is a Sonic game that takes place in the Arabian Nights stories. Sonic 
 was asleep in a house with a book open on his body, the book started too glow, and a genie named 
 Sharah (I can't remember how it's spelled) comes out of it. She takes Sonic through the tutorial 
 chapters of the story. (Note: Not in Arabian Nights stories in real life) After that, Sonic and 
 Sharah see the Erazor Jinn burning his way into the story. His goal in life is to destroy all of 
 the Arabian Nights stories. Erazor threatens Sharah for the Seven World Rings, but she dosen't 
 have them. So Erazor shoots a flame at the genie, but Sonic jumps and gets hit with the flame. 
 Apparently, with that flame in Sonic's heart, he only has a few days left to live. The only thing 
 for him to do now is to get the world rings and kill Erazor, but he can't do it alone.
  
  What I liked about this game is that the Wii controls are great. Fun party games. Unlockable mini 
 game characters (including Silver from Sonic the Hedgehog for the XBOX 360 and PlayStation 3) . 
 Fun missions.
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that the final boss fight is very frustrating. Some bad mini 
 games.
  
  Overall, Sonic and the Secret Rings is a good first Wii Sonic title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packster
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 13, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  -Sonic is back on track with this new game, it brings back Sonic's signature speed and gameplay, 
 it's usually a enjoyable experience, but it sometimes is too hard to control sonic and gets too 
 hard for it's own good.
  
  
  ---GAMEPLAY -- [7.8]
  -SEGA brings back it's signature speed in the latest Sonic game, It's fast, its fun, but sometimes 
 it's too fast for it's own good in some unresponsive controls by holding the wii remote like a 
 traditional controls to the left and right bringing sonic that way, and once you run into something, 
 which is usual concidering you have to respond in like, 3 seconds because you see it right when 
 you hit it, you go so slow and it takes a very long time to regain your speed. Go backwards sucks 
 too, you cant see where you are going and it's just hard and repetitive and jumping is also hard 
 and breaks the sense of speed and flow of the game. But when you can control yourself, the controls 
 are usually pretty fun.
  -Attacking enemies is a big part of the game, so it's a good thing it is fun, you lock on and thrust 
 the remote forward, its a fun experience.
  
  ---GRAPHICS -- [8.5]
  The visuals are great, one of the best looking wii games, detailed enviroments and a solid sense 
 of speed, thumbs up SEGA.
  
  ---VALUE -- [8.0]
  There are many missions you can just pass, and you can go back and play them, of go back and get 
 a higher rank of previous levels and getting more XP to upgrade your ring and get extra powers. 
 There are also some minigames in the game that arent as good as Nintendo games' minigames, but 
 they are all right if you dont have WarioWare Smooth Moves or Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games.
 
  
  ---TILT -- [8.0]
  A game that has a good sense of speed, good graphics, and okay controls, it gets so hard that it 
 becomes repetitive at some points at the game, and the story is odd, but not horrible and the voice 
 acting sucks but its all around, a fun experience.
  - - -
  I recomend if you're looking for a new Wii game to bring home or you were dissapointed by SONIC 
 THE HEDGEHOG for PS3/360, it will put some hope for your favorite blue hedgehog.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coddballs
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 13, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  I though this was going to be a good game because it got a 7.6 which is relatively high for a sonic 
 game.
  When I first started the game I expected some cool main theme like in many other sonic games but 
 I was wrong the main theme in the game is irritating and makes me want to switch off the game. 
 About the actual game it is very boring there's not many levels but plenty of stupid sub missions 
 which is the same level just a slightly different objective and the cut-scenes and just a waste 
 of time there set out like a comic book and don't move I just skip them because of the terrible 
 story line. The gameplay is quite simple and takes getting use to, basically you turn the wiimote 
 left and right which is way to sensitive to make sonic go that way and press the 2 button to make 
 sonic jump and swing the wiimote forward fast to make sonic do a homing attack you can do this 
 when a enemy is highlighted with a red ring but in some parts of the game this doesn't work and 
 you have repeatedly throw the wiimote forward and it always happens when your over a bottomless 
 pit also sonic runs forward him self you can make him stop with the 1 button and make him walk 
 backwards by tilting the wiimote towards yourself but the camera angle doesn't move with it.
  
  So do yourself a favor and DON'T BUY THIS GAME.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anime-ToL
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 12:06 am PT
Review:  In the beginning, it's really easy, and too easy for it's own good. Unfortunately, the rest becomes 
 hard. Here's how.
  
  Mechanics/Controls 2/10
  
  The controls are sometimes hard to control, maybe all platformers are like this (excluding Super 
 Mario Galaxy, which is a free roam type which I prefer) . This fatal flaw made most of the game 
 difficult, something I didn't really expect from a Sonic game.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  
  The graphics were phenomenal, which is odd for the Wii...
  
  Plot 6.5/10
  
  For a sonic 
 game this was probably one of the worst plotted. I mean, the genie chick just appears outta nowhere. 
 Couldn't they had a little build up to it? And also, Erazor Jin (or whutever his name is) is sort 
 of a sissy for a villian. He shoulda just killed sonic on the spot if he really wanted to destroy 
 the Arabian Nights.
  
  Overall 17.5/30
  
  It's ok... but it's not really worth $30. If you do have it, just try to have fun with the crappy 
 controls... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jordan_owns
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 2, 2008 9:40 pm PT
Review:  I was really disappointed, I hated a lot of it, I got so bored really fast. I wanted to play anything 
 else I had. So I sold it.
  
  Story:
  Boring. And Unexplainable I disliked it very much.
  2/10
  
  Graphics:
  Not to bad to tell 
 the truth, I failed to get into them enough to see them. I though they where ok.
  7/10
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound was good, I liked the sound of the Music, and the sound effect was nice.
 
  
  8/10
  
  Controls:
  
  The Controls where very cool, you can use it in many different ways, but I hated the way you hold 
 the controller.
  
  2/10
  
  Overall: 3/10
  
  
  But really, It is not a good game to play. Also I do not insist on you to buy this,
  
  And 
 it says the minimum is 100, but I posted and it said 800, so I am mad, shock,  
 or that again.... idk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anton_111111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  good parts; graphics, gameplay Party mode and unlockables
  
  Graphics: some of the best graphics in a sonic game (3D)
  
  Gameplay: it is good as it can 
 be challenging but sometimjes it is very easy
  
  Party mode: it is fun as there is alot of characters and different styles of controls expcet from 
 one or two of the games
  
  Unlockables: There is alot of unlockables most of them concept art
  
  Bad Parts: voice acting 
 and music sometimes 
  
  Voice acting: Most of the time the voices sound like it should be used for a different game
  
 
  Music: most of it is usual sonic style but this game as got like 7 bad songs and 3 good songs
 
  
  Graphics: 9 could have been better but it certanily is the right direction
  Gameplay: 10 can hold a good gamer for hours and hours
  Sound: 5 could have been helped by better 
 music in level plus voices
  
  Overall: 8.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViralPlayer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Sonic The Hedgehog is back. After running down hill on the Xbox 360 and the PlayStation 3, he is 
 now trying his luck on the Nintendo Wii, with Sonic and the Secret Rings. Is this the final destination 
 for Sonic? Or does Sonic still have a couple of laps left in him?
  
  Story: Sonic travels to the book of the "Arabian Nights" to save it from the Erazor Djinn.
  
 
  Gameplay: The Wii Remote for Sonic is surprisingly easy. The Wii Remote lets you steer Sonic by 
 tilting the remote left and right. To use the homing attack, jump by pressing the 2 button then 
 thrust the remove forward. After you complete a few missions, there will be more ability to run 
 faster, jump higher, and other power-ups.
  
  Graphics: The graphics has been greatly improved. The graphics does have some problems, but, overall, 
 the graphics is good for a Sonic game.
  
  Sounds: The sounds ranges from classic sound effects to realistic sound effects making an equal 
 balance.
  
  Overall: This Sonic game does not bring him back on top, but this is a good start for him to get 
 there. If there were ever to be a sequal to this game, it should be, because this one have a lot 
 of potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gearsman92
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog is back. After is abysmal 360 game and his lost of his A+ Mascot reputation, 
 the wise cracking Mascot makes his way to the Wii. Will this be the final nail in his cofine, or 
 dose the old mascot have a few more laps in him? The story starts with a ring genie name Sharha 
 meeting and asking Sonic to save her world from the evil Erazor Djin whose been re-writing the 
 stories of the Arabean Nights. The story also tells that a blue Hedgehog will save the day. Sonic 
 is sucked into the book and struck in chest and must collect 7 world rings which may or may not 
 force him to sacrifice his life. Through out the game, you'll see cameo's of Tails, Knuckles, and 
 Eggman who are portrayed as Arbeian Night's characters. Lets face, Sonic story are never A+ materal. 
 Here, the poor story falls with animated stilt frames instead of full motion video. It's the easy 
 way out, but we were expecting more from the blue mascot. The voice acting is just horrible. Sonic's 
 voice is O. K, but the rest is just Grating, as is the script, which happens to contain the most 
 dramatic pinkey swear. But, not like its crap of a story, the gameplay is enjoyable. The consept 
 is that Sonic is on rails, constantly going foward. You hold the Wiimote like a classic controller, 
 and steer Sonic left and right, dodgeing obstecles, and jumping over objects. When in the air, 
 you can thrust the controller foword to dash foword, and to smash enemies with Sonic's Homing attack. 
 This used a lot, so it good that it's fun. The speed truly get's you into the 16-bit er. Your quickly 
 doging, killing enemies, and most impotantly, Running really fast. This can easily be called "the 
 fastest 3-D Sonic game". After the completion of a level you'll level up. This gives you more coins 
 to collect, more Soul gadge, and most importantly, abilities that will you make you run faster, 
 dodge faster, and other stuff. Nearly going, Sonic move slow and takes a while for Sonic to get 
 up to speed. You can also use 2 abilities. Speed Break makes you go extreamly fast, and Time break 
 slows thing down to get pas things. There are some problems, like when going back, the camera forced 
 you to go back blindly. The controls are also not presise, so when you try to make a quick move, 
 you may die. If theres will ever be a sequal, which there should be since it has potential, the 
 controls need more procision. Each level has you doing different challenges like collecting rings, 
 racing agenst a ball of light, going agenst the time, not die, or something else. But, your forced 
 to do these challenges. You don't know what will move you on, and the game is super efficantly 
 long using this. Sonic fans will love the challenges, but the little ones will hate this and get 
 easily frustrated. The overall look of the game is great, were looking at the blue prints of what 
 the Wii is made of. The Wii may be the last in the graphics race, but with games like Sonic, it's 
 not suffering. The levels are beautiful and Sonic looks great. But, the levels start to repeat 
 after a while. Sonic fans should love this game. It has everything a Sonic game needs, Despite 
 design choses, this can be a good game. If you looking for a good Wii game, this one is it. If 
 you can get pass the rediculuse story, this is a fun game. Let's hope the old little Hedgehog can 
 get back on his feet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobylim
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  This game is good even if I am not a fan, but there is a lot of minor problems or things that keeps 
 boring you. Controls are kinda responsive but not as much as you would want them to be. Some people 
 think that being able to walk back is an awesome feature, but I disagree. AT LEAST we can walk 
 back, cuz if we couldn't this game would have been awfull haha. No seriously, i just think that 
 in some level, where you need to get all the collectibles in order to get what you want, this game 
 is going to make you angry and yell bad words. You jump too high or too low, the character didnt 
 moved to the side enough... This is all good reason for a good old restart of the level and some 
 swearing. Also, story was ok, but nothing very interesting. Normally in sonic, there is a lot puit 
 into the story but this time... I dunno, it didn't really kept me really interested as it does 
 for adventure battle 2. Even if I criticize this game, it wasn't that bad. I mean, you get back 
 in the sonic world, the levels and enviroments are still really beaautiful. Music sounded really 
 well as always. It's all the Sonic speed/ loop / rebound thing that make people really enjoy the 
 game. all that ''sonic'' experience. Anyway, most people would be disapointed by the new gameplay 
 style of the game (witch keeps going foward like some kind of race (which is not) ) just like I 
 did. There is not much liberty of movement trought the game and that just... kinda ruins the sonic 
 experience. Rent it, and youll see what it is like before you spend too much money on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solardestructon
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game yesterday and I can already say that this is truly a fun-filled experience 
 for gamers of all ages. At first, I was having second thoughts after I played it because the controls 
 wouldn't work very well. As it turns out though, I wasn't holding the wii-mote horizontally like 
 your supposed to. After finding out the controls on the internet (I don't have the instruction 
 manual) , I gave this game another go and was glad I did. Sonic and the Secret Rings brings back 
 old gameplay elements and combines them with new, unique controls. While mostly focused on speed, 
 players are opted to move the wii-mote left and right to avoid obstacles and thrust upward to deliver 
 a homing attack to incoming enemies. The story is a bit mediocre, but could have been worse. One 
 day after awakened from a nap, Sonic is visited by a Genie who needs his help to save her people 
 from Erazor Djinn, an evil Genie. The only problem is that the Arabian Nights he must save are 
 actually part of a book. Sonic then has to search for the seven rings leave the story with a happy 
 ending and to save his life. The cutscenes are sub-par, for they are merely animated stills, although 
 it does make sense, considering he is in a book. Overall, this game has the best graphics I have 
 ever seen in a Sonic game and unique controls that will have you coming back for more. I don't 
 have much time left, so I'll leave it at this, if you are a Sonic fan, then you should definitely 
 consider picking this up. Plus it has a multiplayer party mode, similar to that of the Mario Party 
 franchise. I give Sonic and the Secret Rings, 9 golden rings............ out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic-Rules
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  With real Sonic Speed and a true feel for the true blue hedgehog, Sonic and the Secret Rings Can 
 be frustratingly hard to control and you could easily find yourself reversing off the edge of a 
 cliff. With intense missions and a crazy multiplayer. This makes up for the recent rubbish sonic 
 games. Sonics friends appear as ancient people. Even though the quirks hold it back the new enemy 
 and new friend make up for it. Homing attack is worse than in the other games and i have to use 
 the wii remote like a tennis racket to control it. Challenging and still fun to play, except for 
 the fact you sometimes run if you like it or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockstarDX
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  This game is Sonic the Hedgehog's debut on the all popular, Nintendo Wii. After a tragic XBOX 360 
 and PS3 game, can Sonic games still be good? Find out in this review. The goal in the game is to 
 complete the entire story mode as Sonic playing missions, obtaining upgrades, following the story, 
 and much more.
  
  The story of the game is that Sonic was just one day reading an Arabian Nights book. Then, when 
 he fell asleep, a genie named Shara came out of the book and asking Sonic for his assistance. Apparently, 
 an evil genie named Erazar Ginn is in the book and trying to take control of the book which means 
 he'll be able to travel into the real world and cause all kinds of havoc. So, Sonic and Shara travel 
 through the book on a quest for the 7 World Rings to stop the evil Erazar Ginn.
  
  The gameplay is pretty easy. You hold the Wii Remote sideways. This game is on-rails so Sonic moves 
 automatically. You tilt the Remote left and right to steer Sonic. You press the 2 button to do 
 a quick jump. Hold 2 and release for an even higher jump. You hold 1 to brake. You tilt the Remote 
 backwards to move backwards. To use a homing attack, jump and then push the Wii Remote forward 
 to use the homing attack. Which is the main attack in the game. The controls are very simple and 
 are quite easy to get used too. But the fact you have to buy upgrades for better controls is a 
 pretty bad idea. And the moving backwards control could be improved because you can't see what's 
 behind you which could lead you into traps.
  
  The level designs in Sonic and the Secret Rings are pretty varied. In a good way. The levels are 
 different from each other completely so you never get bored of the game. Though, there are only 
 eight levels. Each with their own set of missions. I think it would've been a better idea to stick 
 to the basic and just go from stage to stage instead of having to complete missions to continue. 
 But the mission way is pretty good too. By completing missions, you earn skill points that you 
 can use to equip upgrades. There are over 100 upgrades which is quite alot.
  
  The graphics in the game are just plain marvelous. The character models are absolutely fabulous. 
 In both story and party mode. Sonic is the right size unlike Next Gen and has a dark blue color 
 which looks great on him. It's how the blue blur should look like these days. The levels are great 
 in graphics. The texture of every single item in the levels are great. The menus look great too 
 and are presented well.
  
  The sound is probably the only disappointing part you'll find in the game. The soundtrack is pretty 
 good but some of the stage songs have vocals and they just don't work that well in this game for 
 level music. The theme song is pretty good but I wish it'd have been done by Crush 40. The most 
 awesome band Sega have ever hired for Sonic games. Listening to the theme song in the main menu 
 in story mode just gets plain annoying after a while. The party mode's music is great though. The 
 music matches the party theme well. But the most hated part are the voices. Sonic's voice has gotten 
 much much worse. Jason actually tries to put in some emotion and makes Sonic sound way to over 
 reacted. Plus, it sounds terrible. The other voices are okay.
  
  There's a ton to do in this game. There's a storybook where you can view all the things you've 
 unlocked. And let me tell ya, there's over 200 things to unlock in this game. You are constantly 
 unlocking items for the story book which is a great way Sega have did to increase replayability. 
 Think that's alot? You've seen nothing. Sega have also added a Party Mode. It's basically another 
 mini game collection like the million other ones on the Wii. But this one is one of the most fun 
 mini game collections I've ever played. This is my favorite part of the game. The games are plain 
 fun. The ways to play are excellent. The mode makes great use of the Wii remote and has a good 
 selection of characters. It's way better then Sonic Shuffle for sure. Best part, it ain't anything 
 close to a Mario Party rip off at all. You also gotta unlock things in this mode so that adds more 
 replay value.
  
  Overall, Sonic and the Secret Rings is one of the most funnest Wii games I probably will ever play. 
 With great gameplay, excellent mini games, gorgeous graphics, and tons of replay value, this game 
 is great! Just gotta improve the sound is all. And that upgrading system is a little of a downer. 
 Let's all hope Sega use this gameplay mechanic in a future Sonic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi892
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 5:00 am PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings was expected to bring Sonic back to form, a form which we lost ever 
 since he entered the third dimension. So does Sonic and the Secret Rings flop, or does it really 
 bring the series back to life.
  
  In all fairness Sonic and the Secret Rings is not a complete flop. Granted its certainely not Game 
 of the Year and has its fair share of faults, but looking through past all this, the foundations 
 are there for a good game.
  
  In terms of faults this game has plenty. Sonic does not control particularly well, and the camera 
 is pretty useless and does not auto correct itself, as expected in this day and age. Some levels 
 can be slightly boring and linear, soundtrack is dire and voice acting uninspired. With all these 
 faults you are probably thinking this game is going to get a 3.0 or lower. 
  
  But however its not. And this is because of th e (mostly) well designed levels, polished graphics 
 and fun mulitplayer modes. In terms of multiplayer it can be quite fun... while it lasts. It is 
 a sort of party mini-game mode in which you take it in turns to do various activities. Quite fun 
 but as I said, while it lasts.
  
  To Summarise. Sonic and the Secret Rings is not a return to form and is nowhere near the standard 
 of the 2D games. It is however back on the right tracks and a sequel is a must, hopefully improving 
 on everything wrong with the first one.
  
  Summary
  + Fun Muiltiplayer
  + Polished Graphics
  - Camera doesn't readjust itself
  - Dire soundtrack and voice acting
 
  - Some levels are bland 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikiz
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 29, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is seriosuly a total waste of time. Sonic moves himself while you move your Wiimote back 
 and forth in a frusturating manor in an attempt to keep him from running off of an edge. You can't 
 even control him. The Nunchuck is completely pointless here, and that alone should tell you that 
 this game is awful.
  
  True, I have only played two levels, but it doesn't take much to relize how repetetive and boring 
 this game is. The Legend of Zelda has better voice acting and the cutscenes are boring. I skipped 
 them all.
  
  The only thing that this game does right is the graphics. They're good, although they aren't the 
 best. The music is awful like always, it's worse than chinese water torture.
  
  I should've known that Sega would screw this up. The controls are inverted so you've gotta move 
 left to go right and right to go left. That sucks.
  
  Pros: The graphics are pretty good. It gets a little better as you go along.
  
  Cons: The Legend 
 of Zelda has better voice acting. Music is worse than chinese water torture. It's repetetive. Will 
 make you wish the Wiimote was never invented. 
  
  No. No. No. No. No. No. This game is a huge failure. No. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willy105
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Very good graphics; the idea to control Sonic like this was a genius one.
  
  THE BAD: Very bad level design; very bad use of the idea; it's not presented very well; it is not 
 polished.
  
  Remember when you played the original 2D Sonic the Hedgehog games? The ability to go at such speed 
 and maneuver to obstacles while not losing that speed was great. But Sonic did not do the jump 
 to 3D very well. Sonic Adventure tried to convey the sense of speed, but various technical issues 
 and lack of polish made it impossible to do it. Sonic Adventure 2 actually managed to do it, but 
 the Sonic parts only accounted for 30% of the game. 
  
  But somebody at Sega created an absolutely wonderful idea to control Sonic. It would be on rails 
 and you could only move Sonic left and right, and you could make him jump. It would be the absolute 
 best way to keep the Sonic spirit on a 3D game. Sonic and the Secret Rings is the first game to 
 use that control scheme. But unfortunately, this is the absolute worst implementation of such an 
 idea into a game.
  
  The reason is because in this game, you are forced to do everything except go fast. You have to 
 search for an item, you have to destroy all the enemies, you have to collect 70 rings, but never 
 to go fast. It's dumbfounding. Who had the idea to make this game like this? And what is worse, 
 since the control scheme was never meant to be used for a game like this, the game is very hard 
 and very frustrating.
  
  You are going to die a lot. You will have to restart the game a lot. The game simply was not supposed 
 to be made like this. Doing things you are not supposed to do with that control scheme is very 
 annoying. It's like playing a FPS using the Tetris engine. All thru the game, you are going to 
 have the feeling that this game was not supposed to be doing this.
  
  It's not very polished neither. It is slow for the game to register a button press or a tilt of 
 the controller. Since these levels require precision timing, you will spend a lot of time trying 
 to complete a level rather than going to the next level. Going out of cliffs and running into a 
 plant or an enemy is never fun. It just confusing why Sega did this game like this.
  
  There is some good points about this game though. The graphics are great. This game is the first 
 Wii game to have next-gen graphics. By that I mean that it's graphics are better than any of the 
 three consoles could ever do. Too bad it only runs at 30 fps. It's also in 480p and widescreen. 
 Overall, this is a very good looking game.
  
  The sound however is forgettable, with boring music and bored voice actors. The game doesn't even 
 do much with it's story. The story is presented in a random matter, sometimes things happening 
 before the thing that leads to it has not happened yet. The story was made for kids, but there 
 is no way for kids could even play this game, it requires too much patience and trial and error 
 to complete a level. You could tell it was a rushed production.
  
  It's not as bad as the Xbox 360 and PS3 Sonic games, but it could be better. But it does have a 
 great future if it's idea is implemented correctly in a future Sonic game. Sonic is not dead, and 
 with this new idea, he could go back to greatness in the future.
  
  Should you buy this game? Yes if you have the patience. But not if you don't have the patience. 
 You need to be a hardcore gamer to get the most out of this game, because only hardcore gamers 
 would have the skill to even finish the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TristanH12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Sonic and The Secret Rings is perhaps my favorite Wii game to date, and this comes nearly almost 
 one year since its initial release. This Sonic game does everything right in my opinion. There 
 is a catchy story that has most of the Sonic characters from past games, the music is rocking and 
 fit for each level, there is tons to replay with varying challenges, and the Wii Remote is put 
 to great and varying uses (in fact everything is motion controller) . However, as I have come to 
 learn everything is not always as it seems.
  
  Personally, I feel that this is probably one of the easiest Sonic games to beat. Sure you may have 
 to replay levels, but it isnt becuase it is hard to figure out where to go or what to do. Oh no, 
 it is because the dumb camera fails to be able to adjust to Sonic's direction. At times you need 
 to go backwards and change paths or jump back but you cant! The camera stays facing forward and 
 you have to meticulously crawl backwards. Even then at times, the silly camera (failing to readjust 
 so that the controls can be re calibrated for a new direction) , you will find yourself unable to 
 jump backwards, stop, slow down or do anything. Obstacles will be in the way, and abyss's will 
 cause you to die. I found myself, losing levels, not because I had little to no skill, but because 
 the silly camera wouldnt adjust, respond in time, or even shift so I could see. The camera is perhaps 
 the biggest thing that I have with this game. It is so impactful that it completely ruins the experience. 
 I had to turn the game off many a times frustrated because it wouldnt cooperate with me. 
  
  Beyond that, there really isnt much else wrong with the game. It is pretty straightforward 
 with its design and setup. Play a level, unlock stuff, choose what you want to do next, and it 
 just may be a story level or a level to unlock more levels and stuff. Yes it is that vague, because 
 there are * tons* of unlockables if you manage to stay with the game that long and replay levels 
 (after unlocking extra Sonic abilities) , to get the highest medal ranking. I found it to be fun. 
 
  
  Sonic and the Secret Rings, is an amazing Sonic game that is plagued by the silly camera (and controls 
 that act up at times) . There is always a sense of Sonic speed and such, but because of this camera 
 the speed is hardly ever maintained. 
  
  Ultimately, attempt to find the soundtrack!!! It is so rockin ballin, I love it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidgame17
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 4:07 am PT
Review:  if your a die hard sonic fan or new to sonic games, then you may find this game pretty fun, but 
 otherwise this game is nothing special. i have been playing sonic for 16 years and still prefer 
 the old shcool games. i can see that sega has tried to make this game into a somewhat more 3d platform 
 games, they just did a poor job.
  
  the controls were all right, nothing real fansy or difficurt, the main thing, for me at least, 
 was just timing your jumps over obsticals. i had a lot of moments where i couldnt make the jump 
 and kept having to start back over to miss the jump again.
  
  the graphis were non-the-less impresive, the game looked great. and the camera was more or less 
 coroperative. alot better than sonic on the 360 nad ps3. the rear view camera was well done, unlike 
 the 360 and ps3 version, but the levels had you only going forward, instead of giving you levels 
 that you can run around and explore.
  
  all in all its a game sonic fans may want to rent just to say they played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mike0193
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  I really didn't think that it would be a sonic game where he just runs in straight paths and things 
 like that. It's not exactly straight, because it's a modern form of the classic ones... but hopefully 
 you know what i mean ^_^ ! 
  However, surely anyone who enjoys the classic style ones will love this one. It's great in detail. 
 Plus, it has fun multiplayer minigames. I just play the minigames with friends, since i thought 
 it was a sonic adventure where you move his body in maps (not the running thing) . Soo yeah, sorry 
 i couldn't explain this more clearer ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolf-avatar
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is so Fun you have to play it, Its not just the Grapics and the Fun its the Story that 
 gets you Hooked, My most Fav leavel in the Game is the Last one were you get to play as Super Sonic 
 are Dark Sonic, If you dont like Racing games you should Proberly rent it First, So the Game Play 
 is relly Fun and Stuff you also get to Unlock things for a Special Book so after you beat the Game 
 you still have something to do. You could try to get all gold Medals are try to unlock all the Other 
 Unlockables. That was my Review thanks for Reading... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demokk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings is an interesting addition to the Sonic series and the Wii.
  
  Graphics: This game has good graphics. It may not be on-par with some newer games but it certainly 
 does look good. Specially when traveling at high speeds. Just look at the horizon on the sky ruins 
 level.
  
  Gameplay: In Sonic and the Secret Rings, everything is done with the Wiimote; and most of it with 
 motion sensing. It is actually a little "different" at first but eventually you will end up liking 
 it. Basically, you move Sonic like a racing game while trying to avoid/smash enemies and picking 
 up rings. It becomes satisfying if you manage to keep Sonic at high speeds. 
  The Boss battles, even though they can become quite frustrating; they are indeed good, everything 
 is done while speeding up. It can be said that this game maintains that high-speed Sonic we all 
 know and love but also adds a little to the difficulty. Even though the controls are interesting 
 it can become a little tiring when you end up dying for not correctly doing the motion. What is 
 also interesting; don't expect to finish this game on 1 day, while the story may not be that long; 
 it has enough challenges to keep you replaying the stages quite a bit.
  
  Sound: There isn't much to talk about here, except that expect to hear your classic "ring pick 
 up" sound. Everything feels in context. What I did really like, was the music, it can be enough 
 just to keep you entertained while completing a level (even if you have died a lot) .
  
  Tilt: If you're a fan of Sonic games you should at least try this game. It has enough to keep you 
 entertained with it's far familiar gameplay. If you're not, It can be fun to try and hopefully 
 you will end up liking Sonic.
  
  It's story may not be that attractive to many, but it's gameplay it is what makes this game at 
 least worth a look. With the not so extensive catalog of Wii games that aren't mini-games. It is 
 worth at least a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haga11111
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 6:08 am PT
Review:  This is what Sonic games should be: running through inventive stages, with few "friends" and love 
 stories to get in the way. Where other Sonic games (like Sonic Heroes) fail, this one succeeds. 
 Now, I'm not saying that Heroes was a bad game. I'm just saying that it had 2 major flaws: it focused 
 on the plot, and having lots of playable characters. In this game, you play as Sonic, and run. 
 That's what the old, and good, Sonic games where. Playing as Sonic the Hedgehog, and running like 
 hell. In my opinion, this is the best 3D Sonic game yet. The controls are relatively easy to memorize, 
 the music and sound is amazing, and it re-adopts a feature that I always loved: upgrades. They 
 first appeared in SA1, and now they're back, with never-before-seen abilities. The multi-player 
 is fun if you have friends over, or your playing with family, but don't buy this game for the multi-player. 
 Buy it for single-player. Because the game is mostly on rails, camera problems are non-existent. 
 I have found no glitches yet, and I doubt there are any huge glitches. A hint if you get the game, 
 or own it now: try to collect all 7 world rings before you beat the game... 
  
  Well, have fun playing!
  
  -a haga11111 review. He doesn't go overboard, he jumps off the boat, 
 flailing happily. See ya! - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meowcow22
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  Enjoyable but it gets very hard. It's a good game but it could do with better controls. The multiplayer 
 is not good at all there really was no point to it. and all the rubbish ali baba and knuckles the 
 sailor guy wasnt much good and having eggman as king was even weirder but a gd game overall. Super 
 Mario Galaxy finds Mario taking his adventures to new heights as he soars through space from planet 
 to planet in search of stars. Get ready for the next installment in Nintendo's Paper Mario RPG 
 series, entitled Super Paper Mario. It was a good Birthday present but the beginning levels go 
 on for a very long time i was starting to get bored! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mewmaster93
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Lately we've been getting Sonic games that have either been mediocre or just plain easy. But with 
 this new game for the Wii all of that changes. This game takes Sonic back to his high speed platforming 
 roots in the stroybook world of The Arabian Nights. The plot revolves around Sonic being sent into 
 the book by a magical Ring Genie named Shahra. She needs Sonic's help to stop the Erazor Djinn from 
 destroying the book world and getting into the real world. However Erazor puts a curse on Sonic 
 that unless he gets the 7 world rings he'll die.
  The game makes Sonic race through 8 worlds battling Erazor's henchmen and completing various missions. The 
 game also is only played by Sonic.
  Though other Sonic characters appear as heroes from the story. The gameplay is pure Sonic. Some missions 
 require you to destroy a certain amount of enemies, find a set amount of rings, or race a spirit 
 to the finish line. The diverse missions allow tons of replay value along with different views of 
 the enviroment.
  While the game is alot better then recent titles the game suffers from a too varied difficulty. Some 
 missions will be really easy but others will be very hard unless you have the right abilities. But 
 in all this is the best Sonic game in a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hungry_Homer111
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog was once one of the most recognized videogame icons around, and was Mario's 
 main competition in the platforming genre. However, he did not have a smooth transition between 
 2D and 3D, and has lost many of the fans from his golden years.
  
  Now Sega has released a new Sonic game for the Wii, called Sonic and the Secret Rings. In this 
 game, Sonic finds out that the world within the book Arabian Nights is being threatened by an evil 
 genie named Erazor. It is up to Sonic to stop Erazor. Along the way, he meets some of the characters 
 from the book, which just happen to look and sound exactly like some of his friends. It's not one 
 of the best stories in a videogame, or even in a platformer, although it's not too bad.
  
  Each level in the game has a different theme based on one of the stories from the book. Players 
 don't have as much control over Sonic as they did in previous games, because the game has Sonic 
 running forward automatically, and within a set path. The player moves Sonic left and right to 
 avoid obstacles, controls when Sonic jumps and attacks, and that's basically it. While some people 
 may be put off by the lack of freedom, it does do a good job at giving back the sense of speed 
 that a lot of people have been wanting from his newer games. It also manages to keep things challenging 
 and fun.
  
  Within the different worlds, there are many different kinds of missions for the players to beat. 
 Some of these are as simple as getting from one point to the other. Others add different kinds 
 of challenges, such as finishing with a certain amount of rings, not finishing with any rings, 
 not killing any enemies, killing a certain amount of enemies, and a few others. The game doesn't 
 take that long to beat because you don't have to beat all of the missions to beat the game. It 
 only takes about 10 to 15 hours to beat the game, although there is still a lot to do after beating 
 the game.
  
  The game has a kind of RPG system, where Sonic will level-up throughout the game, and will gain 
 different abilities, making the gameplay better as you go along. This is an interesting idea, but 
 it is poorly executed and leads to one of the game's biggest flaws. A lot of the abilities are 
 improve the speed and reaction time of Sonic, along with the distance he can jump, and his attack 
 range. So in other words, early in the game, Sonic moves a lot slower than he should, doesn't move 
 left and right quick enough, and misses a lot of enemies and jumps. I found that it didn't matter 
 that much that I couldn't jump far or attack enemies within the early levels of the game, but the 
 slow reaction time often resulted in me failing the missions, and the slow speed of Sonic was really 
 annoying as well. However, if you're patient enough to get past the initial part of the game it 
 becomes a lot less frustrating and is more fun. However, the controls still aren't perfect. There 
 are still some times where the controls act up, and trying to back up by tilting the controller 
 backwards can get very frustrating.
  
  The game has a lot of replay value for anybody who likes to get 100% in a game. As stated before, 
 you don't have to beat all of the missions to beat the game, so you can always go back to play 
 the missions that you didn't beat. Also, each of the missions have bronze, silver, and gold medals 
 which you get depending on how you played. These unlock different things, such as pictures and 
 videos of the game. Also, levels have these things called "Fire Souls" which you can collect to 
 unlock things in the party mode. There are also "rank names," which are similar to Achievement 
 Points on the Xbox 360.
  
  The game also has a multi-player portion. There are a few different modes to play, some of which 
 are unlocked in the single-player mode. These are kind of similar to Mario Party, in that the players 
 compete in the mini-games, and that determines how many spaces the people can move. The mini-games 
 that you can play in each mode are the same, but the goal in each mode is different. One mode has 
 the players trying to find some kind of treasure on a kind of game board, another has them racing 
 down a river, and then there are a few others.
  
  After playing the mini-games in Sega's other game Super Monkey Ball, I did not expect much from 
 the mini-games in this. However, these games are actually a big step up from the games in Super 
 Monkey Ball. They use the controller pretty well, with a few exceptions, and are actually pretty 
 fun. I wouldn't recommend the game to anybody who just wants to add to their mini-game collection 
 unless if they find it at a cheaper price, but for anybody who is interested in the rest of the 
 game, this is a nice addition to it which can add to the amount of time that you play the game.
 
  
  The graphics in the game are very good. Now that Metroid Prime 3 and Super Mario Galaxy is out, 
 these aren't the best graphics on the Wii, but they were the best graphics on the Wii at the time 
 the game was release, and still some of the best graphics from a 3rd party game. Some of the details 
 are very nice, and catch my eye even in the short amount of time that they are on the screen. In 
 addition to the graphics from the technical side, the game has a very good art style.
  
  The sound is one of the game's lowest points. Sega still uses very bad rock songs for the majority 
 of the single-player game. There is some good music every now and them, specifically in some of 
 the cut-scenes and in the multi-player part of the game. But overall the music in this game makes 
 me wish that Sega would make good original music in the style of the 2D games. The voice acting 
 is also bad. Some of the voices were OK, but others just made me cringe because they were so bad.
 
  
  Overall the game has a lot of problems, such as being forced to level up for better controls, and 
 bad sound, but it does a lot to try to bring Sonic back to the quality he was once known for. The 
 game sacrifices freedom of movement in favor of trying to get the series back to its fast and fun 
 roots, and succeeds on several levels, although Sega still has a lot of work to do if they want 
 to in the series to prove that Sonic isn't just a dying series like a lot of fans believe that 
 it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thejackal465
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Before I begin, it is necessary to explain a little about myself... Yes, this is probably the only 
 opportunity any of you freeloaders will ever have to look into why the HeadshotJackal really is 
 (and if you call me HJ, I swear to god I'll kill you) . I am a college student who remembers the 
 90's -- and vividly. I remember the SNES's bigger days, the launch of the playstation, the rise of 
 the N64. Why do I say this? It will all become apparent in due time.
  
  There are probably few people out there who can possibly say that they are a bigger Sonic fan than 
 I am. I used to sneak out at night to my friend's house to play Sonic the Hedgehog 2 on his Sega 
 Genesis. The first console game I ever beat was Sonic 2, of course i was too young to do it alone 
 so my brother helped by playing as Tails. I watched the cartoon show every saturday morning. I 
 even remember the words to the theme song ("Sonic -- he's got an attitude! Sonic -- he's the fastest 
 thing aliiiiive!") . The first game I bought when I upgraded to a gamecube was Sonic Adventure 2: 
 Battle. My current ringtone is "Live and Learn", and the top songs in my weightlifting playlist 
 are "I Am... All of Me", "His World", "What I'm Made Of", and "All Hail Shadow". Whenever I come 
 upon a railing, I think of how cool it would be to grind down. Sonic the Hedgehog 2 is my favorite 
 game of all time.
  
  I say this to get a point across. I am a diehard Sonic fan and I have high hopes for Sonic Wildfire. 
 This review will not be free of prejudice. As a huge Sonic fan, I may have graded this game either 
 too leniently because I hope that the franchise succeeds, or perhaps too harshly because it doesn't 
 capture my love for Sonic games. Just be warned.
  
  Sonic Wildfire is a fresh take on the series. Not only is Sonic set up against a new enemy in Erazor 
 Djinn as he threatens the bookworld of the Arabian Nights, but Sonic's jump to the wii has opened-up 
 new possibilities for gameplay. 
  
  In this title, you control Sonic the Hedgehog as he dashes through levels. Sonic's forward progress 
 is constant and players steer him left and right past obstacles. This may be the best idea for 
 a 3D Sonic game yet -- it is a great way to capture Sonic's oldschool speed in a (pseudo) 3D way. 
 
  
  However, the controls are not tight enough. Some motions of the wiimote are not detected and others 
 are observed too closely. Backing-up is nearly impossible and some homing attacks are botched-up. 
 The overall result of this is a trippy playthrough and many teeth-gritting moments. 
  
  Graphically the game is excellent. It looks smoother and more defined than any Sonic game to date. 
 The camera follows Sonic and includes him in the screen enough so players know where he is, but 
 in such a way that the path ahead is not obscured. 
  
  The game is packed with many different levels, but each including several different variations 
 of the same missions. I do not personally have a problem with this on the grounds that the original 
 game's main objective was always "proceed to the right". This "lack of variety" may actually be 
 a take on the old days where gameplay was simple -- but effective. Still, many times, players may 
 find themselves thinking, "Hey, didn't I do this already?"
  
  The game is quirky in its cutscenes, but most of the story is told as a comicbook or a campfire 
 story. This is pretty cool, save for a few moments, especially at the very end, where a few points 
 of dialogue go a long way to ruin a sequence.
  
  HeadshotJackal's rating:
  I gave this game 5.5/10. It is an above average game and an excellent idea. The controls need to 
 be tightened. If they were more responsive, this game would get a significantly higher score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyranitar522
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  I did not seem to like this game a lot. I first played it at WAL-MART before buying it, and did 
 not like the gameplay story a bit. FIrst of all, i dont like the idea of fire in Sonic and also 
 the most annoying part was the fact that it is not full screen. Otherwise, the music is pretty 
 good, and so is the set up of the stages. One thing annoyed me most is that in every new Sonic 
 game, including Sonic the Hedgehog (2006) , humans interact and mess around. I dont mind Eggman 
 because he is the main antagonist. But the most cool part in the game is near the ending, when 
 you play as DarkSpines Sonic. Darkspines Sonic looks so cool, and his moves are awesome. So that 
 is basically it. 
  
  SUMMARY: This game is not too bad, but could have been made better. I had expected more than this 
 from Sonic Team. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: forgiven3200
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is OK! I thought the graphics were good, but the game moves too fast. I feel like I breeze 
 through the worlds, but I don't know how I got through it. The games storyline is very intriguing. 
 The music is definitely the best thing about the game. It does start you out with training on the 
 different things you can do with Sonic. It helps you get prepared for the actual game. I actually 
 got bored of it, but have tried to start over and complete the game. Overall, the game isn't what 
 I had hoped it to be. Sonic, on Sega, was much better in my opinion! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vista8
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings was good and realy bad.
  To play, you hold the Wiimote sidways. Sonic goes forword by himself, all you do is tilt the Wiimote 
 the way you whant Sonic to turn. You fiip the Wiimote upside-down to make Sonic go backword. The 
 movment contros sound simple to use, but it gets really annoying once you you get to the harder 
 levels. The gameplay graphics are pretty good. But the cut-sceens look like you'r reading a book, 
 I think thats kinda dumb. The dialog, both gameplay and cut-sceen, is pretty lame (actually, I 
 think the dialog in all Sonic games is lame) . The bosses' are very creative. Except the Lava Golem (or 
 what ever it was called.) it's just like the Egg Golem (or what ever that thing was called) from 
 Sonic Adventure 2 Battel, you find a way to the the Egg Golem's head, and do homing atackes to 
 the button thing on it's head, and keep doing that until he dies. You do the exact same thing with 
 the Lava Golem. And the weirdest thing is that the two golems look the same! But, the other bosses 
 look really cool. One other cool thing is doing Speed Break. Speed Break is really simaler to Chaos 
 Contrlol from the game Shadow the Hedghog. Speed Break makes Sonic run at, like, 2000 mlies per 
 hour, and Chaos Control Shadow fly at, like 2000 mlies per hour, but Chaos Control is beater, Shadow 
 flies over the osticals in his way, but if Sonic hits a wall, Speed Break is canceld. The multiplayer 
 was actually kinda fun. The worst part about Sonic and the Secret Rings is the music. The music 
 SUCKS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! So to top it off, I give Sonic and the Secret Rings a 7 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anzooo
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  El primer juego del erizo que llega al wii, nos cuenta una gran historia que nos adentra y es interesante 
 pero la dificultad es realmente poca, es un juego tan fcil y los tutoriales del principio son 
 tediosos pero conforme avanzas en el juego te ves lleno de buenos retos, el uso del mando y control 
 de Wii se ve bien aplicado sinceramente te hara moverte un muy buen rato, pero algo que si tienes 
 que considerar son los minijuegos pues aunque son muy simples son bastante entretenidos cuando 
 lo juegas de varios jugadores con tus cuates y familiares, en conclusin es un buen juego, podramos 
 esperar ms pero no queda ms que conformarnos con el mario & sonic at the olimpic games!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guard12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 10:30 pm PT
Review:  If you like Sonic the Hedgehog than you will like this game... But if your hoping for Sonic on 
 Dreamcast out of this than turn away..
  
  The game itself is very repetitive.. you will play the same missions over and over again on different 
 levels until you collect all of the rings.. The only thing I think is pretty cool is the different 
 boss fights that are on every different level. The boss fights were each fought a different way. 
 
  
  I found the story to be a bit lame at best.. Sonic is to save the past by finding the secret rings. 
 Not to interesting for me lol.
  
  The controls I found to be quite nice.. You hold the remote on the side (like when playing NES games) 
 and you tilt it forward to move forward and backward to move backward. 
  
  If it wasn't for the fact that every level had the same basic missions and it got to tedious at 
 times I would give it a higher score.. but since doesnt follow the Sonic on the Dreamcast formula 
 I can't and wont give it a higher score.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neo9898_98
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings for Wii is a nice way to show that we shouldn't give up hope on the 
 legenday blue hedgehog just yet. Sonic gets thrown into the world of the Arabian Nights and must 
 save it from some evil guy with a giant razor blade. While it sounds like a silly story, it's surprisingly 
 interesting. The graphics are very sharp and capture the enviroment very well. The controls feel 
 very natural and could probably work for future Sonic games, assuming Sega will create more. All 
 in all, Sonic returns to his awesome "go from point A to point B without losing speed" formula. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  The first Wii Sonic game sounds good on paper. You tilt the remote to move sonic and shake it to 
 make sonic attack. Graphics are on par with the system and the story is actually descent. I feel 
 it is where the gameplay dulls this game down. You only control sonic moving back and side to side. 
 The game also doesn't respond to well. The skill rings are a nice rpg style touch to sonic that 
 allows you to boost and attract rings. The music is embarassing. The same song plays in the menu, 
 and the in game sound is not that exciting. I've been a sonic fan and have been quite thirsty for 
 an actual good sonic game and am still waiting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleachxxxnaruto
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  get dis game if ur a sonic fan. even ppls who havent played sonic might get hooked up 2 the sereies. 
 get dis game. get dis game get dis game get dis game get dis game get dis game get dis game. u'll 
 probably enjoy it. get dis game get dis game, superb graphics, probably the best wii graphics out. 
 so get dis game get dis game get dis game get dis game get dis game get dis game get dis game. 
 get dis game get dis game get dis game get dis game get dis game get dis game get dis game get 
 dis game get dis game get dis game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xan23579
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 4, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  At first, when I purchased this game (pre- owned) , and played the first few levels, I thought it 
 was great. But 3/4 through the game, I found out first-hand why it was pre- owned. The game only 
 really becomes great once you gain the soul gauge, and use Speed/ Time Breaks. However, some platforming 
 issues, such as camera perspectives, and the CONSTANT acceleration forwards, makes simple jumping 
 and homing attacks a chore. Also, boss battles are quite enjoyable, some, notably the ifrit battle, 
 are just frustrating. Then, there's the the annoying missions where you're required to collect 
 items, which REALLY doesn't go down well with the speed- inducing mechanics of this game. However, 
 this game upholds some of the cool 3D effects seen in SA 2B, with insane loops and corkscrews, and 
 fans of sonic should'nt pass this up. However, this game doesn't quite match up to SA 2B, in terms 
 of audio and level design (and the absence of Chao Gardens!) The multiplayer tries this board-game/party 
 mini game style that mario parties are well known for, but the visual content and the mini-games 
 themselves don't really make for any major multiplayer fun; races against opponents would've worked 
 quite nicely with wi-fi between two or more wiis... It's a good game, but if you don't have a good 
 temper to put up with ill- placed obstacles/ awkward enemy confrontations, or you're not much of 
 a sonic fan, rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Migue9107
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I highly recommend this game... It is a flow of pure adrenaline, with all the different tracks 
 the high speed and the action make this one of the greatest games of the year. The graphics are 
 in a normal scale but the graphics don't make a game. One of the things that make me see this game 
 like a great game was the multi-player option, this make a game suitable in companion not only 
 in a single player (not as metroid) . I know many of you will like this game so you can go in this 
 precise moment to the store and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkspineSonic0
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2007 4:14 am PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings is one of the best games in the series. With blazing speeds, high jumps, 
 and creative stages, it reinvents the series because of Sonics downfall games. Although the controls 
 can be frustrating, it's graphics, speed, and stages are amazing and creative. Sonics design hasn't 
 changed though. He is still blue with a little tail, two spikes on his back, and around seven spikes 
 on his head. Also, you can level up to become stronger and get special moves that can help you 
 throughout the stages. One special move is a splash jump in which Sonic jumps on a wall, the jumps 
 again like a wall jump, only he goes up on it instead of away. Each special move has a type. there 
 are three types. Wind which is for speed, fire which is for attack, and dark which affects the 
 number of rings or pearls you have. Pearls are glowing balls which fill up your soul gauge. When 
 you get to a certain part in the game, you get the soule gauge. The soul gauge allows Sonic to 
 slow time, or speed him to amazing, blazing, totally wicked speeds. Time break slows down time 
 while speed breack, wickedly speeds sonic up. When you get pearls, your soul gause builds up, and 
 when your sould gauge gets to a certain point, you can use Time, or Speed Break, until it depletes. 
 The story starts when Sonic, greatest and fastest hedgehog in the world, is taking his nap. Then, 
 a genie comes out of the book of the Araibian Nights and wakes up Sonic. The genie tells Sonic 
 how her world in the Arabian nights is bring destroyed by a genie named the Erazor Djinn, and that 
 if he is not stopped, he will wreak havoc on the rel world. She takes Sonic- who is now the genies 
 master-into the Arabian Nights, where he must get seven, amazingly powerful, world rings, and defeat 
 the Erazor Djinn, before a flame in his chest, burns out, and he dies, along with the Arabian Nights. 
 There are many missions, in which you have to do many things. Get a certain amount of rings, get 
 to the finish in time, don't die even once, defeat a boss, or just go form the start to finish. 
 You must finish a certain number of missions, before you can go to the next stage-or world. Or 
 you have to finish a certain mission, in which you need your logic to figure out which one, and 
 finish it. Although, there is a small cast of characters, and the only playable character in story 
 mode is Sonic. Along with the story mode there is also a minigame mode-or party mode-in which you 
 can play a large variaty if minigames. There are also four characters that you can unlock with 
 fire souls from story mode. Fire souls are red circles, with a flame in them, that are hidden through 
 many missions, and getting them will unlock special moves, characters, minigames, and lots of other 
 stuff. There is also a stage in party mode, in when you unlock, you get rings from minigames. Then 
 you go to the new stage and there are auctions for carpets. You place your bids with rings. Sonic 
 and the Secret Rings has reinvented the Sonic series and is very cool. With two new special moves, 
 and a party mode too. It has amazing graphics, with very creative stages and worlds. Along with 
 lots of side stuff to do, and a very cool story, even though the controls can be frustrating, Sonic 
 and the Secret rings must be the greatest Sonic game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -broken-wings-
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  For those sonic fans, you're gonna get a new experience. If you like a game of great speed and 
 quick reactions, this would be suitable to your taste. Multi-player is fun for the family. But 
 i suggest hiring this game before deciding to buy it. Story starts as Sonic sleeping. Sahra appearers 
 out of the book of the Arabian Nights. Asking for sonic to save her world from Erazor. So our hedgehog 
 friend jumps right in to help. And thats where it begins. You get to choose what stages and missions 
 to do out of the ones you have unlocked. The first world is basically the tutorial. Which is in 
 need for the controls are like no other sonic game before. So you go through the stages, completing 
 each task to save the day yet again. Sadly for the last couple of years, sonic hasn't been fulfilling 
 it's own potential. I had higher hopes for this seeing how it was going to change to suit the controls 
 for the WII. Only to find myself more annoyed and basically thrusting the remote at the tv. Personally, 
 i hate this new style where it automatically keeps running forward without stop. With the other 
 sonic games i like how you can choose your own path and come across shortcuts, hidden objects and 
 such. In a few of the levels, i ran straight pass the enemy and into a wall, where i would have 
 to back step so i could kill it. But end up just bumping into the enemy, thus trapped and easily 
 killed. At times the game can be insanely fast, and you tend to run into things or completely running 
 pass an obstacle you were meant to do. Some levels can be completed in a flash without any mistakes, 
 others take several times till you know the ropes and the paths you're ment to take. With the surprises 
 of popping up enemies, it's good that there is an unlimited amount of lives. Makes it slightly 
 more easier, and less frustrating. With more practice, you'll soon get used to the new controls. 
 The cut scenes was a new look, as if it was truly a book. Was something different, but boring. 
 But it helps ties in the story. And along the way you get to meet some familiar faces.
  
  Got to admit, multi-player is enjoyable. Up to four people, playing as Sonic, Tails, Knuckels, 
 and Amy. And 4 unlockable charactes. The different usage of the remote gives more variety within 
 the games. A few of the games can be a bit frustrating with the very few glitches. There's four 
 different stages you can choose. Tournament Palace= like any tournament, a one on one match to 
 see who is the champion. Treasure hunt= a board where there are several treasure chests. Unknown 
 of what is in each chest. You have to find a certain treasure that's pick at random. Then go off 
 guessing and hoping you find it. If it's not the treasure you ment to be looking for, it goes to 
 next player turn. A test of memory and slightly luck. Depending on your placement in the party 
 game will determine the amount of spaces you are allowde to move. First to collect 3 treasures 
 will be declared the winner. Genie's lair= the winner of the party game gets to select a chest 
 from the various amount on the ground. Some contains medals, while others are trapped. Goal is 
 to have the most amount of medals at the end when all chest are gone. Pirates Coast= One path to 
 the goal, win the party games to move ahead more. There's a few special spaces that could double 
 your next move, or leave you in a whirlpool.
  
  It's a new style for sonic. But it seemed to have done okay for itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrunoBear
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  Sonic and the Temple of Lost Rings is a pretty good Sonic game. The Wii controler really worked 
 for sonic and game the blue hedgehog a new gaming concept. In the game, a genie visits Sonic and 
 tells him an evil Djinn named Erazor is, well, erazing the world of a thousand nights. If Erazor 
 gathers enough power, it'll come to Sonic's world and erase it as well.
  So Sonic hops into the world of Arabian Nights and goes forth to stop this threat.
  There is 
 good sense of depth and nice colors. They are faithful to Sonic's personality and style.
  The fact that Sonic doesn't go around chasing Chaos Emeralds is actually pretty refreshing.
  
 There is only one main problem in this game. Dr. Eggman appears as the Arabian Night's King and 
 Tails appears as Ali Baba. While it's nice to see other familiar faces in the game, something simply 
 seems wrong with that. Why the hell is Ali Baba exactly like Tails? It's like a lame excuse to 
 force familiar characters into the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 10, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  Sega decided to make the Wii Sonic game completely different from the PS3 and XBOX 360 title. They 
 decided to make a game where Sonic runs in front of the screen and you tilt the remote left and 
 right to steer him, similar to Excite Truck. This is definietly in need of improvement if they 
 ever make another Sonic game similar to this. The controls don't work quite right all the time 
 and sometimes you say to yourself, "Where's my control stick?!?" The controls are especially frustrating 
 when you have to move with your back to a wall or swing from vines: you'll repeadedly get the impulse 
 to throw the remote across the room. The levels are pretty cool but are really random. (What does 
 a dinosaur jungle or floating ruins have to do with the Arabian Nights?) There are plenty of missions 
 on each level, which is a pretty good thing. The story is OK, except for the fact that it unfolds 
 in a series of moving images and incredibly cheesy dialogue. I didn't quite finish the game in 
 the time I rented it, but I had had enough of it by the day before it was due back. Aside from 
 all the negative stuff I've said about it, The Secret Rings is pretty fun at some points, but overall 
 not really worthwhile. So you should only rent this game if you're a big Sonic fan, you may like 
 it. I didn't find it all that great, but you might not have as much trouble with it as I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minndak10
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 16, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  Man what are people complaining abuot the controls? They are solid controls and a fun game so to 
 prove them wrong..... Here is my review
  
  Gameplay: Here is where people are complaining the most the gameplay. The gameplay is simple and 
 clean and gives Sonic fresh air again! The controls are great you hold it horizontal and the controls 
 start out really bad they were done that way on purpose but the more you level up the more you 
 can update Sonic to improve his speed and the controls the Wiimote also has one heck of a vibration 
 on it made me shiver from the vibration!
  
  Story: This story in Sonic you play as Sonic along Shara the Ring Genie comes to the legendary blue 
 hedgehog (Sonic) And takes him into a book of magic while the evil master Erazor Djin is changing 
 all the stories of the Arabian Nights Sonic has to go on an adventure and stop Erazor Djin with 
 Shara who helps Sonic along the way.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are great the water looks real the sky does too at points and the last level 
 in the palace the graphics look great and pretty and wants you to stay and look at them (Where people 
 complain about not stopping...... Use the break button!! then you can see the place)
  
  Music: Not the best music it is arabian music except for one song which costantly plays at level 
 selection after you finish the level during the final boss battle while you are updating moves.. (And 
 you can change english voices to Japenese)
  
  Sound: The sound brings back memories like the rushing water it sounds like rushing water and when 
 you collect rings they have that old chime back
  
  Value: This game is worth $30 if you are an old Sonic player or a hardcore Sonic Fan and is worth 
 all the money it is out for! (I gave it a 8 for a certain reason in this review) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_sageX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  Sonic made it to the Wii with Sonic and The Secret Rings. The Wii features implemented in the game 
 has added tons of revolutionary game play while in some ways the game still maintains its traditional 
 formula.
  
  Story: Sonic had quiet time when all of a sudden Sonic bumped into a mysterious looking ring, where 
 a few moments later a genie pops out of the ring by the name of Shahara. Shahara tells Sonic of 
 the book of Arabian nights. The books pages were blank and Sonic learns that this was the doing 
 of an evil genie by the name of Erazor Jin. Erazor plans to delete every pages in the book and 
 it was up to Sonic to stop him.
  
  Game design: As Sonic you will be speeding through different worlds of the Arabian night. Famous 
 faces like Tails and Knuckles will be making cameo appearances as characters of the Arabian nights 
 such as Alibaba and Sinbad.
  The presentation here is probably the lowest quality Sonic presentation, because not only considering 
 that the Wiis graphics engine is the same as the Gamecube (Which doesnt really bother me much) 
 but also cut scenes have been placed as picture slides with voice dialogues, not to mention the 
 story is pretty much not all that interesting. Unlike the past games you wont exactly go through 
 a straight story which jumps you from stage to stage, but they are split into missions, once you 
 finish certain missions only then will you go to new worlds.
  Getting to new worlds can be a pain but they are worth it, the level design and graphics looks 
 incredible especially when going at high speed.
  
  Game play: This is where things get interesting. Sonic will be running straight forward and your 
 task is to give him different actions using the Wii mote. You will hold the Wii mote horizontally, 
 tilting it left and right will make Sonic turn and you can perform other actions such as jumping, 
 homing attack, grinding and can even move backwards.
  In the past controlling Sonic at high speed was a problem but this game has eliminated this traditional 
 problem.
  You can obtain rings, which will give Sonic new abilities, however there is a limit to how many 
 rings you can carry, so it depends on your level. Racing through levels will give Sonic Exp. Points 
 and thus leveling Sonic up, the higher the level the more rings, so Sonic will be pretty slow at 
 the beginning but around &frac14; through the game Sonic will be fast at your satisfaction.
  
  Sound: The voice casts from previous games have returned but the dialogues sound a bit cheesy 
 for my taste and as mentioned before the story completely not interesting. The music on the other 
 hand is great.
  
  Sonic and The Secret Rings is really more like a test drive for Sonic on the Wii. Its a great 
 Sonic game, but is just too limited and the reason why the game is long is because they placed 
 lots of missions in a single world, which can feel quite repetitive. Although the concept of Arabian 
 nights was an interesting theme the poor quality of the presentation just ruins the experience.
 
  For the future they should always include animated scenes and should always be able to jump directly 
 from one world to the other instead of playing through annoying missions and keeping the game repetitive. 
 When people say they want more content they dont mean repeat the same things over and over before 
 they can see something new. The good news is that the Wii controls actually work really well and 
 you can look forward to a future game with similar scheme, though it would be nice to tweak the 
 controls a bit because sometimes Sonic doesnt always react to the controls the way you want him 
 to.
  
  It would also be nice if they made the stages a bit wider because they felt kind of cramped and 
 there wasnt always space to dodge. You may also have wished to play through the adventure with 
 other characters, yes there are mini games where you can play as other characters with your friends 
 but the mini games arent really that fun and memorable and especially challenging. The game isnt 
 a total disaster but isnt really all that great either, the Wii mote a fun, but with the lack 
 of true content and presentations quality the game will have a hard time surviving on the shelves, 
 but since the game happens to be one of the best titles available now for Wii you should consider 
 giving it a shoot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aravindashwin
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 13, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  This game is extremely fun, but sometimes its sheer simplicity is its downfall. The game revitalizes 
 the sense of speed, but there are very few instances to utilize this speed. I am an all out Sonic 
 fanboy, so Dark Sonic pleased me. The story in this game is excellent, but the lack of cutscenes 
 downgrades it a bit. The gamesplay is what makes this game so good. You will speed across turns, 
 dodge giant spears, and walk across walls. The downside to this speed is that sometimes it is hard 
 to control, making certain boss fights excruciating. THe mini games are very fun, but some of them 
 are impossible due to bad controls. Overall this a great game, and I recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DOHBOY_87
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 9, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  As good as this game looks on the box and on paper it just can't hold up to the name of sonic, 
 after fighting my way thru the first few levels in story mode i gave up on that and tryied out 
 the mini games, which weren't much better they added a little bit to the game play but alot of 
 them were difficult to pick up and try to play the demo on how to play them was extremly vague 
 and didnt really give much away about it. in the long run this game was a waste of money and time 
 i would much rather spend my time to go back and play the old sonic games on the real sega consoles. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  The screts rings marks sonic's debut on the wii.
  
  I was so excited to play this game at my friends house (I don't have a wii but he does) . The game 
 was very exciting and enjoyable.
  
  The graphics are good but some of them aren't what you'd expect. The music is arabian rock bash. 
 The sound is the 2nd best next to Mario party 8 on the wii. The control is mixy and clunky, but 
 you'll get used to it. The camera barely recieved a range of 9.0 and a 10.0 from me (9 and 10) .
 
  
  This game is one of the best so far on the wii. If none goes so far as this game, it will stay 
 that way for good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 2:56 am PT
Review:  Sonic and the seceret rings poses as yet another abyss in the Sonic franchise. Not only have the 
 games been a nusiance compared to their ancestral roots, but by now it's becoming common to spectate 
 a sonic game gone bad. 
  
  Gamers who grew up with Sonic are starving for some more, problem is, it's not like wine. The older 
 it gets, the more annoying it gets. As I stated earlier, recent times call for more demanding titles, 
 something that Sonic has lately been lacking.
  
  Overall, this game adds nothing new. Your basic running across the field in savannah, tropical 
 and other sceneries. Admittingly, it's fun to run at top speed, something I wish to try in real 
 life. If only it was possible.
  
  On a more positive note, Sonic stays true to it's formula. It's repetative though additions would 
 include the scenery, characters and enemies. Bosses are somewhat fun. My advice for Sega is not 
 to rush their games. My final score is 8.5, and thats being generous! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreatorCartoons
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  As most of us know Sonic has made some terrible games lately, and most of us have probably given 
 up on our retro blue friend. But does Sonic and the Secret Rings revive our long lost friend? Well, 
 let me tell you.
  
  Story- The story is that Sonic has been takin' into the book of the Arabian Knights to rid the 
 evil genie, Erazor. And there ya go, thats it... Wow, Truly Awe-Inspiring.
  
  Graphics- In my opinion, this is sonic's most beautiful game. You can honestly say this game probably 
 couldn't be done on Gamecube. Most of the worlds look great, and Sonic himself is awesome. What 
 really suprised me is that sonic actually has a texture on him. Besides being the boring old solid 
 color blue, they actually made it when light shines on him you can see little tuffs of hair on 
 sonic. Little details like that make this game seem really polished.
  
  Gameplay- Ok, here we go... Sonic has failed many, many, many times over the past few years with 
 gameplay. And all we hardcore Sonic fans want is speed. I think FINALLY sega knew what we wanted 
 and delivered pretty well. So heres how you play... You hold the wii remote on its side and tilt 
 the wii-remote to turn. The game is almost like a racing game to me, first you start out slow, 
 then you increase in speed, and then your going extremely fast. The game is also on a railing system 
 , in other words you really have no control of where your going. Its like Sonic is on a race track 
 and you cant get off the road. Even though this may sound boring and lame, it makes up for some 
 pretty damn good times.
  
  But there are some flaws with the game...
  1. The controls dont respond fast enough for the speed your going. For example: Let's say your 
 going really fast, and you need to jump over a trench, so you press jump... Wait, i fell in the 
 trench... But how? Well because the controls dont RESPOND FAST ENOUGH!!!!
  2. If you want to follow the story, your probably going to fail. The reason is, the story is so 
 broken up and jagged due to how you go from mission to mission, you just get lost and and wonder 
 what the hell is goin on?!
  3. The fun in the game runs out to fast... The way you control Sonic doesn't really make you feel 
 like your controlling him. I mean, you dont have any control of when he goes, he just kinda, well... 
 goes. Its kind of like riding a canoe down a really intense current, you cant control when you 
 go and when you stop, the current does. You just have to steer your canoe and pray to God you dont 
 hit anything.
  
  The Lowdown- Sonic and the Secret Rings is one of those games you cant really explain how you feel 
 about it. And for that reason I recommend that if your interested in this game that you should 
 just rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicNarutoFan
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  this is an excellent game that has a lot to offer. The story is well thought out. The game play 
 in story is fun as well besides some of the side missions that can be a real pain. As for the party 
 mode, it is the funnest part of the game. I personally love the party mode. There are many different 
 mini games that have you doing all kinds of motions with the wii mote. You can also unlock party 
 mode characters and games by collecting (i think its called fire souls) . All in all, this game 
 is an instant classic that you just can't stop playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lasadora
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  Sonic and the secret rings offers a brilliant sense of speed and awesome graphics. The cutscenes 
 can be better and the controls can be a right pain but its defineitely worth enough for the sonic 
 genesis after a poor run by sega. Sonic fans will love seeing sonic get to top speed within seconds 
 and the cool thing is you can make him go faster and faster! Not many levels but plenty of missions 
 to keep anyone occupied though some can be virtually impossible with the setup but overall its 
 all good. Finally sonic fans who think super sonic is old school wait till you see the end.
  Overall sonic and the secret rings is a must buy for the wii and perfect for a person new to sonic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vash767
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Sonic and the secret rings for the nintendo wii, is a really fun game. and sonic goes faster then 
 ever before. you can now even level up sonic to make him even faster and better. One of the only 
 down falls is that sonic is the only playable character in the one player/story mode. But in multiplayer, 
 you get lots of characters, including, Shadow, Knuckles, tails, Of course sonic, and 3 other suprise 
 characters. The graphics to this game are great for a nintendo wii game. The story mode is great 
 and overall this game is pretty fun, but hard. thats why I gave Sonic and the Secret Rings for 
 the nintendo wii, a 8.5 out of 10 * See ya on my next review :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrashunreal
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  I have to hand it to SEGA, this is probably the only new Sonic game that does the character any 
 justice whatsoever. The storyline is kind of cheesey, and lacks in some areas, but the gameplay 
 is admittedly extremely addicting and fun. I really do prefer the freeworld feel of Sonic Adventure 
 1, but I really hate how they destroyed it in Sonic the Hedgehog (XBOX 360, PS3.) I was beginning 
 to lose hope in the Sonic series until this game came out. now, I'm quite interested in seeing 
 where it goes from here. The only quips I truly have is that the whole thing feels really restricted 
 and the controls have quite a learning curve -- and even when you master them, they can be a bit 
 jumpy sometimes. Make no mistake though, this a fun game that any tired Sonic fans will want to 
 pick up ASAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendarzFan
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 17, 2007 3:58 am PT
Review:  Sonic and The Secret Rings disappointed me completely, it just doesn't feel the same on the Wii. 
 Yes there are some cool new features but they don't make up for the screwed up controls and the 
 horrible level design. The controls feel so weird because quite often they don't respond and it 
 doesn't feel like an average sonic game, I mean you don't even have half the control over Sonic. 
 Stupidly Sega added a new feature which keeps Sonic running on and on, but it just feels like hes 
 doing everything hmiself and you have no control over it. The level design isn't that great either, 
 quite a few times in the game you will get stuck on just a little part and it will end up making 
 you spend 10 minutes on that certain part. There are also challenges which seem impossible like 
 your races against this blue fairy thing (forgot its name) . But quite a few new features are pretty 
 cool like leveling up and obtaining new skills. And the multiplayer minigames which will probably 
 remind you of Mario Party. So for a hardcore Sonic fan you might as well get this game, but for 
 any other gamer I don't reccommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ordonian
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 12:12 am PT
Review:  Controls are kind of awkward and a bit repetative but its fun enough that you'll want to finish 
 the game. The minigames are pretty fun but it is kind of dissapointing that minigames are the only 
 multiplayer but still It's an OK game and even though I wouldn't try to get you to buy it it's 
 not a bad thing that you did. The levels are pretty much the exact same thing over and over again 
 until you change worlds but the objectives have some variation one mission might have you collect 
 a certain amount of rings and another might have you kill a certain amount of enemies but most 
 of the levels are simply get to the finish. Sonic and the Secret Rings is a pretty easy game the 
 only time it's ever hard is when you hav'nt got the controls down (then its impossible) . You have 
 no set number of lives so you can die as much as you want and you'll respawn just a little back 
 from where you started. The controls are pretty awkward though so parts where you have to perform 
 so specail move to beat can take awile. Overall it's a decent Sonic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicdude123
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  This game was very fun and very addictive. The controls took a little while to master, but other 
 than that this game was totally awesome. The graphics were very realistic, and the sound was like 
 you were right there! The story line was very easy to follow, but some of the missons were imposibly 
 hard, they took forever! My favorite world was Pirate Storm, it was probably one of the hardest 
 worlds in the game, but it was fun. Well, this whole game was fun to play. My friends and I loved 
 the Party mode, all the mini-games were soooo fun! I highly recommend this game for all Sonic fans. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newtruegunner
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2007 3:36 am PT
Review:  good game easy to control but a little easy and repetative. the wii remote abillaties have been 
 used to perfection however the game lacks the usual sonic flair and is very very repetative but 
 the game is still fun and one of the best games on the wii. it is very fun to play and is not just 
 for young children sonic is a clasic that will live forever and once you have played sonic you 
 will be playing it for years. i have been a fan of sonic nearly all my life it was the first game 
 i ever played. what a series this has been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lonely156030
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 24, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Well sonic is back for another go on the nintendo wii. However he isn't the only thing that's back.. 
 What also came with him was some of the terrible music and voice acting.
  
  Gameplay and Controls: Let me start by saying that I really probably haven't had more fun playing 
 a sonic game. The gameplay feels great and the controls aren't really frustrating. You'll get an 
 even better feel of speed than any other sonic game. They also try putting an rpg feel to the game 
 by obtaining skills which you can use for various effects. For instance, one skill makes is dash 
 attack stronger, another makes him jump higher, but... even those skills don't really make the 
 game THAT much easier or THAT much harder. They really are just sort of a gimmick. Same for the 
 multiplayer, which feels like a mix between super monkey ball minigames and mario party. The multiplayer 
 is something we've seen many, many times and is nothing impressive.
  
  Graphics: The graphics look just a tiny bit over gamecube graphics. They look great and are nice 
 to look at.
  
  Value: Overall, this game deserves a rent, not a buy. It doesn't feel like it is worth 50 dollars. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: painter015k
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  I got Secret Rings for my birthday. I THOUGHT it was going to be interesting thrill of a game, 
 but what I got was the polar opposite. To start the game off the theme song kept playing over and 
 over again, which just adds to how annoying the voices are. Every time you fall of an edge it's 
 always the same oh no! which gets exteremly annoying when keep dying on the same rigged level. 
 The controls aren't even controls. Sonic does all the moving, and by the time you pick up speed 
 Sonic already fell of the edge into oblivion. I couldn't even get past prolouge part 3 because 
 it was impossible to have any real control over Sonic and the levels are rigged. Graphics really 
 weren't that great either. I'll give some points for levels, but the characters are in the same 
 format as they are in Sonic Heroes and Shadow the Hedgehog. I've seen much better graphics before. 
 This game has bad written all over it and is probably the worst Sonic game in Sonic history. I 
 reccomend that unless you're REALLY desperate for Sonic, don't buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trogdor2355
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  now i just rented this game. it's fun yes, but the controls seem to get in the way. now the game 
 starts out with another stupid storyline. something about the space time continumum and destroying 
 the world.. go figure. the graphics look nice for the wii. it would have looked nicer say on the 
 ps3 or xbox 360. but here is the part that i ABSOLUTELY love. no tails. no knuckles. no shadow. 
 no rouge. no eggman. and no super sonic stuff. multiplayer is fun. honestly. but it's deffenitly 
 not the best game for the wii. good, not great. the sense of speed is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NFSspeeddemon
Rating: 2.9
Date: Aug 13, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings is a change in normal sonic games for the worse. Instead of controlling 
 the movement of sonic and the other colorful characters through fun levels, you can only choose 
 sonic and he never stops moving. It creates a frustrating and un-fun experience. Even though the 
 graphics are quiet good it doesnt add to the game at all. The best part of the game would have 
 to be the soundtrack. Its a good mix of rock and roll and old Egyptian music. But you cant really 
 enjoy the music while youre pissed off playing the frustrating levels that seem to be endless. 
 The multi-player is just as boring as the single player mode. Sega tried to make the multi-player 
 like Mario Party games but they failed miserably. This game shouldnt have ever been made and youd 
 have to be a complete idiot to even consider buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: needgameinfo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 11, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  This game has all of the qualities a good Sonic game should have, it's fast paced, immersive, and 
 FUN. Yes I said it this Sonic game is the first one in a while that is actually FUN TO PLAY. I 
 admit it some of the writing was a little goofy (especially the names... Ali Ba ba...&gt;. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalhead164
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 11, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  This addition to the Sonic series is okay but not the best.
  
  The new Sonic game is for the Wii and I really wanted to play it and I finally did and it is not 
 my favorite one at all. The game is short the missions are short and so is the story. If they were 
 going to put this thing on a console that was going to be really BIG they could have the missions 
 bigger. Each mission is about 1minute long and are kinda boring. They could have made the gameplay 
 a little faster. The cut scenes are low budget, because all they are 3-4 pictures on your tv and 
 is kind of a comic book style cut scene to sum it up. For a Wii game these are good graphics Sonic 
 still looks as cool as he is.
  
  This game is not hard either not many enemys show up and the camera angles follow you through you 
 mission apparently so you dont get lost. Learning how to play this game is a snap. You hold the 
 Wii mote as you would in Tony Hawks DHJ and kind of have the same mechanics if you want to think 
 of it that way. Try before you buy unless your a die hard Sonic fan you will not have to worry. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SegaFan_Ssk
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 10, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  INTRO
  Ok, let's face it; the last few titles in the Sonic series have not been up to par (in fact, far 
 below it) , and all they're doing is turning Sega's biggest mascot into the but end of a lot of 
 jokes in the gaming world. The same problems are constantly present in almost every modern game 
 in the series; awkward camera, poor controls, and Sonic is being pushed aside more and more for 
 what seems and endless amount of extra characters. Sonic and the Secret Rings attempts to focus 
 on fixing these problem areas that the previous games had by utilizing the Wii's unique control 
 system, making sure the camera behaves, and ditching all of the sidekicks so that this game is 
 for Sonic... just Sonic.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Throughout the game you use the Wi-mote to guide Sonic along a rail-based level (i. e. he follows 
 a specific path) ; the Wii-mote will allow you to steer Sonic, as well as execute braking, jumping, 
 the Homing Attack, and an array of other abilities. The coolest concept of this game are the RPG 
 elements that will grant you new abilities that you can infuse into any of four special rings that 
 Sonic can wear to use those powers. Since there are four rings, you can custom tune each to be 
 for specific missions (speed, platforming, attacking, etc.) . Overall, the game handles fairly well, 
 but some of the motions and timing of specific abilities can take a bit of time to get the hang 
 of, and the control overall itself could've been better. I can't count the number of times I died 
 or failed a mission because I didn't execute jump well enough or couldn't brake in time. Also I 
 think that the game itself was too focused on mission-based levels, they can be fun but I wanted 
 to play more levels like the basic get to the goal style.
  
  GRAPHICS/SOUND
  The graphics are some of the best on the Wii so far, there's a large amount of detail in each level, 
 and the levels themselves are gorgeous. The design of specific levels are great as well, and the 
 backdrops for some of them are just stunning. The cutscenes in the game create the illusion of 
 a storybook (since the game is based on the Arabian Nights) , and use several splash panels and 
 pictures rather than making a full-blown CGI movie. The soundtrack holds up pretty well, Runblebee 
 is the major contributor to the music in the game, and a lot of it is reminiscent of '80s rock-fusion 
 music, and it's pretty good I find. The voice actors are still the same ones from the Sonic X anime; 
 I (like many people) don't really like some of the actors take on characters. Eggman is done pretty 
 well, but Sonic doesn't sound old enough, Tails talks like a 6-year old girl, and I hate Knuckles 
 voice (he sounds like that stupid Yu-Gi-Oh prat) .
  
  VALUE/CONCLUSION
  It's the average price of other Wii games, and it's definitely worth picking up, but some may want 
 to wait until it goes down in price seeing how the story mode is pretty short and the multiplayer 
 mode is lacklustre at best. This is a good rental title, however, if you just want to play through 
 the single player mode and not bother with getting gold medals and unlocking extra content. Sonic 
 and the Secret Rings is just what the Sonic series needed after the black eye that previous games 
 (Sonic '06 and Shadow specifically) have given it. It takes the series back to the Genesis style, 
 where you'll never know what's around the next bend and a split-second reaction is needed in order 
 to overcome many obstacles. Sonic's Wii debut proves to be one of the top 3rd party entries on 
 this crazy little system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowKid96
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  This game was very fun and very addictive. The controls took a little while to master, but other 
 than that this game was totally awesome. The graphics were very realistic, and the sound was like 
 you were right there! The story line was very easy to follow, but some of the missons were imposibly 
 hard, they took forever! My favorite world was Pirate Storm, it was probably one of the hardest 
 worlds in the game, but it was fun. Well, this whole game was fun to play. My friends and I loved 
 the Party mode, all the mini-games were soooo fun! I highly recommend this game for all Sonic fans. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snatte
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 5, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  Yo dudes, got my wii a few days ago.... dunno why i didnt buy it earlier :S. Anyway, on to the 
 review. This game has everything a sonic game should have except one thing...
  controls, i&acute; m not saying there bad, im just saying theyre not ultra &Uuml; ber cool. But it 
 was far from unplayable.
  
  The greatest thing is that it doesent get boring due to all the extra missions, and party game 
 (i hate that speed djinn though, hes like... fast, you know... way to fast to be a tiny light)
 
  
  ive played through the game fully, and i still cant get enough, and that the graphics are really 
 sweet and detailed combined with cool attacks and speed / time break just wants me to purrr like 
 a kitten. one thing on the bad side though, the voice acting is pretty... eh whatahell, it sucks. 
 ok? it sucks, luckily you can select japanease instead. some music sucks ass, and i guess im the 
 only one, but i looove seven rings in hand :D
  
  also, sonic looks like he should, with pretty normal body, a little beer belly, shorter legs then 
 in sonic 06.
  
  i just wanna make it clear that i am a real hardcore sonic fan.. i dont own every sonic game, but 
 hands to god, i have played them all. game gear classics, dreamcast, sega cd, genesis, megadrive, 
 i even played sonic shuffle even if i didnt enjoy it, niether did i enjoy sonic 06, mostly due 
 to the crappy framerate... my favorite sonic games are (i cant decide for just one becouse i love 
 so many of them) but my very favorite ones have to be sonic 3 and knuckles + sonic adventure 2 
 ( love sonic adventure 2 becouse of its interesting storyline, voice acting, and music gameplay 
 plays a big role too of course) My final words on this game is following:
  
  Dont bother renting it.... Becouse its too good for trying, you&acute; re just gonna end up buying 
 it anyway ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danishahmed
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 2, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  Sonic and rhe secret ring is a good graphic game that has baed games play I beat the game in two 
 days. The game is all about speed and missions . But it can be fun and awsome if you find sonic 
 and the secret ring it will be a good choose but It's a shrit game so it's not a long game but 
 it is a gaood one so get it. The game not only lets you usee a Homing attack but gives you skills 
 in the game as will. The Party mode in the game is also not that very fun it's kindy boring and 
 dum so mode is dull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicblast433
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 1, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings sounded like a great game but it's a big rip off. The plot, like every 
 other Sonic game is great, the graphics seem almost like Sonic Heroes though. The sound was really 
 well made. All that may be great but one thing killed this game, just one downside. The controls 
 for moving Sonic are crippled! When I first played this game it took me a few days to actually 
 get used to the bad controls. Then the controls started to frustrate me again during the stages, 
 and the stages also frustrated me. The Party mode just was something they rushed, SEGA just threw 
 it in to make the game sound fun. Overall, I would say, if you want a good Sonic the Hedgehog game 
 then, don't get this one. Get Sonic Adventure or Sonic Advance, those are great games. SEGA better 
 make better 3D Sonic games, because this one is a disgrace! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SM-X
Rating: 4.7
Date: Aug 1, 2007 3:34 am PT
Review:  Sega's prized blue hedgehog breaks onto the Wii with a god-awful on-rails platformer. While this 
 is certainly better than some of Sonic Team's recent offerings, it still isn't particularly good.
 
  
  Sonic and the Secret Rings promises a new adventure, featuring Sega's trademark blue mascot, in 
 the realm of the Arabian Nights. It's like Sonic meets Aladdin. Only, without the fun part.
  
  The game falls short in many places. The on-rails design, poorly-designed control setup, completely 
 disgraceful multiplayer option, repetitive level design, whacked-out story, cheesy voiceovers, 
 and lack of chao make this game crappy. I will say, though, that it's definitely two steps ahead 
 of the abysmal offerings for the XBox 360 and PlayStation 3.
  
  The graphics certainly stand out on the Wii, but they aren't anything special. You could play Sonic 
 Heroes, and not notice any significant difference. They have GameCube printed all over them.
  
  The game's audio is, at least, partially redeeming. Sonic's attacks and jumps sound the way 
 they should, and the explosion sound effects aren't that bad, either. However, the horrible voiceovers 
 bog this down.
  
  Gameplay-wise, this game is broken, albeit not as broken as the game's XBox 360 and PlayStation 
 3 siblings. The on-rails design is lackluster, and the level design is repeated, in parts, and 
 the motion-sensing controls are uninspired and horribly implemented, resulting in an overall clumsy 
 feel.
  
  I'd wait for the price to drop to ten bucks, because this game certainly isn't worth the fifty-dollar 
 price tag. If you're looking for a rewarding and fun Sonic experience, I recommend Adventure Battle 
 2 for the GameCube, or even the Dreamcast, if you own one.
  
  In my opinion, this game is nothing compared to the golden age Sonic I knew and loved. Sonic Team's 
 really gone downhill since the release of Sonic Heroes. This game's just another prized example 
 of their poor effort into producing quality platforming titles.
  
  Even if you're in desperate need of a Sonic fix, I'd avoid this game (and maybe the entire license) 
 until Sega gets its act together. I used to be a Sonic fan, but, now, after seeing the horrid effort 
 put forth by Sega to keep their prized mascot at his prime, I'm starting to have second thoughts. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodjoe921
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 30, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  This game has strechted far from the orignal and best sonic games!
  I say that this game is not as good as the past sonic games!
  The controls can be waaaaay dificulte!
 
  But I guess you can adjust to them!
  The storyline in my opinion is not the best of the sonic saga!
  And at times dosen't make much 
 since!
  but if your a true sonic fan I guess thats ok with you!
  This game has got to be one of the worst sonic games ever!
  If you are not that big of a fan 
 of sonic like I am! I say don't even bother with this game!
  But if you absoululty love sonic then your going to be preaty dissipointed!
  I rented this game 
 just the other day!
  And waz not very happy with it!
  The storyline is boring at some parts = for example Wiiiiiii look at me I am running down the side 
 of a wall in the desert oh look I just dodged a spear yay I am finaly at the end!
  It's as boring as that! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corpse_Vanishes
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 30, 2007 12:49 am PT
Review:  I love all the Sonic games on the Genesis, I've had them since I was like 8 and have played them 
 for countless hours, but this is only the second newer one I've tried (other was Sonic Heroes for 
 Xbox and it was better) .
  
  Gameplay: The controls are extremely unresponsive, not many games have made me as mad as this one 
 has, if I mess up and/or can't do something in a game I usually don't get mad, no ones perfect, 
 but if Im doing everything right and the game messes up or tells me I messed up it sends me over 
 the edge. To put it simply the controls suck, if it had been on another system or had made little 
 usage of the motion controls (like SPM) then it would have been better. If you want to make a sharp 
 or quick turn, too bad. To attack an enemy you have to SLAM the remote down in the air, you can't 
 just flick it or it wont pick it up and even when you slam it half the time it doesn't pick it 
 up or if your timing is off by even a second you'll miss the bad guy completely and just keep going 
 or fall off the course or lose some rings and just start walking into the guy until you either 
 stop flashing and lose more rings and die or try and jump real quick and get over him. The jumping 
 is also pretty bad, if you just press the jump button he hardly leaves the ground, you have to 
 hold it down (which slows you down and eventually stops you) and try and let go at the right time. 
 The levels are completely linear, which I don't really mind that much, its the rail I seem to 
 be on that I don't like, theres pretty much only one way to go and do each level. You can't move 
 at your own pace either, he takes forever to get going and once he does hes going too fast. Plus 
 youre not even really controlling him, all your there for is to steer and try and hit the bad 
 guys. He moves forward for you and if you want to go back well good luck because its not easy, 
 you have to tilt the remote back and even as he's moving backwards he's still trying to go forward, 
 its not even like your moving him backwards its more like your pulling him back against his will 
 because he will do nothing but fight it and try and keep going forward. You also dont have any 
 control over the view, most of the time its pretty good but sometimes its completely retarded 
 and you cant see. Theres also a Mini-game mode but its nothing that hasnt been done in other 
 Party games for the Wii. Its pretty boring and I could only stand about 20 or 30 minutes of it.
 
  
  Graphics: Nothing amazing but they seem smooth and work and look fine (for the Wii at least) . The 
 cutscenes are pretty stupid though, just storybook pages with pictures on them, I skipped most 
 of them. Sound: This is another really low point, the music is horrible. I really wish they would 
 stop putting pop music in games like this and stick to instrumental or orchestral stuff. The music 
 wouldn't be that annoying if you had the option to turn it off, which you do in most games but 
 in this one theres no sound options anywhere, so you either have to deal with it or play the whole 
 game on mute. The voice actings also not so great. The sound effects are fine but nothing spectacular. 
 Value: Theres plenty to do in the game, lots of different challenges and levels and then theres 
 the Party/Mini-game mode. The bad thing is you're forced to do the stupid challenges, you can't 
 continue the story until you complete them. The prologue thing is also really bad, you can't skip 
 it, half the time it doesn't tell you how to do what your supposed to do and each 10 second step 
 is separated into a different level so it takes longer to get to it and to get back to the menu 
 after its over then it does to actually do it, if they had combined all the steps into one big 
 tutorial it would have been better.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I complained a lot but I actually liked the game some. Its a solid 7, but I expecting 
 at least an 8 or maybe a 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jenrard
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the blue-blur made his entrance in to the gaming world, Sonic became one of the most 
 beloved and well-known video game characters of all time. Unfortunately, Sonic was running so fast 
 that he accidentally broke into the 3rd dimension and got confused in this voluminous world of 
 ours. Each Sonic game since Sonic Adventure 2 (I consider an improvement over Sonic Adventure though 
 neither were amazing) has gotten worse and worse. But Sonics latest entry, Sonic and the Secret 
 Rings, offered a new format that gave us all hope that our favorite (okay, only) blue hedgehog 
 would find his way in our 3-D world and bring him back to the greatness we all know him for. And 
 though Sonic and the Secret Rings is still far from perfect, it is a great game that, with a few 
 adjustments, could be the start for a new Sonic Age. Its no secret that Sonic games of late have 
 been disappointing train wrecks that I wouldnt wish on my worst enemies. If that sounds a bit 
 harsh, go out and spend $60 of your hard earned cash on Sonic the Hedgehog for the Xbox 360 and 
 Playstation 3 and see if you dont agree. Between the hazardous waste that was Shadow the Hedgehog 
 and Sonic Rivals there have been surprising hits like Sonic Rush for DS and Sonic Advance for GBA. 
 So, the million-dollar question is how does Sonic and the Secret Rings stack up? Well Sonic fans, 
 youre in luck. Not only is Sonics first excursion on the Wii successful, its also one of the 
 best Sonic games in years
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay itself is great. You hold the wii remote sideways, in the NES style, and 
 tilt it left and right to direct sonic around. The levels are mostly on rails, though you can back 
 up as you please (to a point) . To jump, you hold down 2, which charges the jump and slows sonic 
 down a bit. Upon releasing it, you'll jump into the air. While there, you can flick the wii controller 
 downwards to dash forward in the air, and if there's an enemy, spring, or any othe robject worth 
 attacking, you can lock onto it and destroy it, as well, with the same flicking motion. The controls 
 are simple, straightforward, and most importantly, they work, for the most part. There are a couple 
 of issues. For one, the flick isn't always picked up if you don't make it forceful enough. This 
 can cause frustration in the middle of a chain of enemies that you need to kill to cross. The camera 
 is another issue, as it is sometimes too low to the gorund to see oncoming threats or alternate 
 paths you might want to take. However, these issues aren't too much of a problem and aren't too 
 much of a handicap, overall. Graphics: The various worlds are wonderfully designed. There are parts 
 that feature wide-open areas where Sonic can really show off his speed and others that require 
 precision accuracy. The first stage is a desert oasis where Sonic rushes through the sand dunes 
 and must avoid falling pillars and strategically placed enemies. The classic bumpers are back and 
 they will propel Sonic to new parts of the stage. One section is ripped right out of Prince of 
 Persia where Sonic must slowly inch his way across a ledge while avoiding spikes that shoot out 
 of the wall. One misstep and hell fall hundreds of feet to the quicksand traps below. Another 
 level has Sonic running through a jungle, complete with huge corkscrew loops and an exhilarating 
 ride on a raft out of control all the while trying to avoid being sunk by huge spikes and dinosaurs. 
 Yet another level takes Sonic inside a factory to do battle with hulking robots and machinery gone 
 awry. One missed jump will send him to an early grave in the lava pits below. Each world is unique 
 not only in its scenery, but also in the variety of obstacles and enemies. Sonic and the Secret 
 Rings looks fantastic on the Wii. The levels are extremely detailed and colorful. Special effects 
 are in full force throughout the game and the little details, like heat signatures, reflections, 
 and dust particles dont go unnoticed. The game sports a very smooth frame rate throughout despite 
 the speed of the action. While it doesnt look as good as the recent Sonic the Hedgehog on Xbox 
 360 and Playstation 3, it still offers a very satisfying visual experience. Still the graphics 
 from story mode look much better than the multiplayer mode.
  
  Sound: The sounds are quite excellent, it's got alot of good music for each level, the characers 
 voices are acted out very well, not to mention the songs in the game are very cool. Like the main 
 theme song Seven Rings In Hand , it's played alot through the manual, but it's still good. And 
 the arabian music is very soothing. The voice acting is also pretty good, but the actual dialogue 
 can be painful, so blame the writers, not the actors. And the conclusion to this review is this, 
 if you want to have a new Sonic experience, or a long time Sonic fan, then this game is so for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prince360
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 21, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Sonic is just a really fun game... With great graphics for the Wii and great although frustrating 
 gameplay. I have not played many sonic games, but i love the show... I really wanted a new wii game 
 thats fun and addictive, i rented sonic and i was not let down... i played and played for hours 
 after hours. The story of sonic secret rings is not all that great... its about a book called the 
 araibian nights.... the books pages is starting to disapear by the wizard Erazor Jin... So a gini 
 comes out of the book and takes sonic with her, now sonic has to retrieve the lost pages and defeat 
 the evil wizard. Oh and if the Erazor Jin gets enough power he can cme out of the book and spread 
 darkness over earth. So ya, and when the cutscenes happen, they show u pictures in the book of 
 what sonic is doing, they talk while the cutscenes but its not a film, thiere like showing you 
 pages of the book... i cant explain it but its not that great. The voice acting is kinda crappy, 
 i think even i can do better than that. The game is great, but if the gameplay and the graphics 
 were not so great, i would have never gave this game a 8.4, but its a great game and everyone with 
 a wii should check it out, i would say rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veeblefester
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jul 19, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  If it wasn't for Sonic Rush, I'd say that Sega was almost trying to kill off Sonic. The game starts 
 out kinda fun. Moving Sonic around with the Wii-Mote is a breeze. Unfortunately that, and the fact 
 the you can customize Sonic with new abilities (almost like an RPG) , are about the only good points 
 to this game. The plot is incredibly lame and stupid and several of the missions where you race 
 a genie require you to be so spot-on that if you miss a jump or run into an enemy, then you might 
 as well start over. The graphics are okay, but I've seen better. Party mode is hardly worth playing. 
 A few of the mini-games are decent, but not enough of them. At least the music is worth listening 
 to, sorta... If you want a platformer/ racer/ RPG/ Mario Party Rip-Off, then this game is for you. 
 If you're just looking for a good Wii game, look elsewhere. I beg you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HolyCheesus
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jul 19, 2007 1:57 am PT
Review:  Well I just picked this up at my local Movie Stars for a 5 day rental. I've been curious to see 
 how Sonic would hold out on the Wii and how it will use the controller. Curiousty killed the hedgehog. 
 First of all, Sonic still hasn't shaken off the very bad music phase. One thing I idmediatly notice 
 something broken in this game is the half-ass cut scenes. The movies in this game are laid out 
 like a comic book insted of real time movies. Oh, and the storys really bad too.
  
  The game play will make you laugh and cry, or scream in this case. You tilt the remote left and 
 right to control the speedy blue hedgehog, and then within the first 5 seconds you'll die. This 
 game hangs its self with a noose of glithes. Sonic will walk into obstacles and seal his own fate 
 with stupidity. Its not all bad, there are some moments in the game that uses the controller in 
 a way to make any Wii owner proud, but there aren't enough of them.
  
  The definite highlight of the game are the graphics. They are similar to the 2 Sonic Adventure 
 games, but have more detail. Its sad you won't be able to enjoy them cause the game moves to fast.
 
  
  This game ins't so bad that you should stay away from it at all costs. Its worth a rent or two 
 (this game is long) and you can see for your self. Im waiting for the next Sonic Wii (if Sonic 
 Team hasn't gone bankrupt by then) and hopefully they won't half-ass it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 16, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Sonic has finally evolved, deep customization and mission system, a healthy amount of 
 levels and things to do, constant mission variety keeps things fresh, takes advantage the of the 
 Wii, controls are nice and easy to use
  
  The Bad: Even though Sonic has evolved it could have been much better, music and voice acting hurts 
 your head after awhile, no co-op mode, custom soundtracks would have been nice
  
  I've always HATED Sonic when it hit 3D with Sonic Adventure. It was just rushed and sloppy and 
 felt nothing like the 2D Sonics. After countless failures Sonic Team FINALLY gave us a good fun 
 Sonic game with SatSR. SatSR has an interesting story where you have to get the 7 world rings to 
 return the world (which is a book) back to order from the Erazor Djinn. Forget the story though 
 it's the gameplay that's satisfying here. While you can blaze through the levels in old Sonic style 
 there are other elements such as hanging from zip lines, side stepping across walls, activating 
 switches, pulling levers, and lots more. This game is also SUPER deep and very long. You have a 
 very deep upgrade system where you can get skill points by beating levels and then gaining skills 
 and equipping them with your Skill Ring. There are hundreds of different skills from speed boosts 
 to smoother side stepping to faster grinding. In addition to all this you can use special powers 
 such as Time Break and Speed Break which are cool looking and very useful. The mission system is 
 very deep and extremely varied and even though you do the same things in the game you never feel 
 bored or like you're repeating the same thing. Missions range from races, to collecting a certain 
 amount of rings, to defeating a certain amount of enemies to not getting defeated at all! The voice 
 acting and music can get pretty irritating and lame but what can you expect from Sonic these days? 
 I also have to mention that the graphics in this game are pretty good. They obviously take advantage 
 of the Wii and you won't see Wii graphics like this anywhere else. I hope Sonic Team keeps Sonic 
 going at this rate and we'll have something incredible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Penguin93
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 15, 2007 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings. A Title that had Serious Potential, ended up failing, All because they 
 thought they could do with out the Nunchuck. The Story to Secret rings Begins with The Genie of 
 the Magic Ring Entering Sonics world, while he is Sleeping. The Genies name is Shahra, and she 
 tells Sonic that she came from the book of Arabian Nights, and needs his help.
  
  The World of the Arabian Nights is being threatened by an evil genie named Erazor. If Erazor keeps 
 manipulating the Worlds in the book, he will gain enough power to leave the book, and Wreak Havoc 
 in the Real World.
  
  Sonic must go into the world of the Arabian Nights with the Genie Shahra, to stop Erazor.
  
 
  I Don't want to spoil the Whole concept, so I'll stop there. The Controls are somewhat Basic. 
 You Hold the Wii remote sideways, to make Sonic Run, You hold the Wii Remote with the Buttons Facing 
 upwards, to make sonic Stop and go Backwards, you must hold the Wii Remote with the Buttons facing 
 you/facing downwards. Easier said than done. The Camera Stays right behind sonic the entire time, 
 including when going backwards.
  
  Jumping can be a pain as well, if you tap the 2 Button, he will go a quick jump, barely reaching 
 the air at all. But for a Big Jump, you must Hold the 2 button, as you hold the 2 Button, sonic 
 starts to slide and slows down, and Eventually stops. Once again, Easier said than done. Although 
 Homing attacks are somewhat cool, as you are in mid-air, you push the Wii Remote forwards to do 
 the Homing attack.
  
  The Graphics and Visuals are pretty Awesome, the Water effects and the Forrest's are very sharp, 
 and somewhat psychs you up on the Game play. it runs in 16:9 and 480p.
  
  Sound. like most Sonic games, it has Terrible Punk-ish music singing about Speed and the Story 
 to the game.
  
  up to 4 Players in Party mode, which has some Potential, but also seems like another Mario party 
 rip off.
  
  Overall Sonic and the Secret rings is a Hit and Miss, once i got used to the Controls i had fun, 
 so the same should go for mostly everyone else.
  
  I know my reviewed Made me sound like i hated the game, which i really didn't, It's enjoyable, 
 but Pointing out the flaws as much as possible could save someone $50. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skaterchrick
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 13, 2007 11:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is suffering from... well, lemme just put it this way it made my jaw drop with amazement 
 that they had the gonads to put this on the shelf and charge money for. This game is the worst 
 game I've played for the wii so far and I'm going to go so far as to say this is one of the worst 
 games I think I've ever played. I don't know if the other reviewers of this game played the same 
 game but ... i assure you that if you like sonic, if you like wii and if you care about your time 
 than you surely won't waste it playing this, unless of course a copy just lands in your wii and 
 you want an excellent laugh.
  the controls are horrible, sonic never really does what you want him to do and if he does do something 
 right it's because you didn't have to do it at all. For half the game, sonic controls himself and 
 it requires no action on you at all for him to do the right thing. He never really actually dies, 
 you pretty much have no consequences for your negative actions and for some reason he can only 
 collect 50 rings at a time. but it doesnt matter because even not having rings won't kill him... only 
 falling off the edge or into water gets you respawned only feet away 2 seconds later. This is definitely 
 one of this years gaming let downs.
  oh and make sure that if you do get this pathetic excuse for a sonic game into your wii you turn 
 down your volume because almost instantly after starting you'll be greeting with what seems to 
 be this games themesong (it plays AT EVERY POSSIBLE CHANCE IT CAN!)
  and it's very loud, even on low volume... plus you don't want to hear sonics stupid anime voice... plus 
 the plot is terrible
  and did i mention this game just SUCKS... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesemonkey199
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 10, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  This game is fast, although when you look at sonic he doesn't appear to be going fast at all. Sonic 
 and the secret rings is definitely a return to form for the hedgehog, after the shockingly bad 
 games he has put out in recent years (sonic rush not included) . the one thing that stands out though 
 is that it is fun to play.
  
  The graphics are reasonably good and the music and sound is top notch. the multiplayer party mode 
 is certainly interesting and keeps you going after you have finished the game. the gameplay and 
 controls are very good as well and the great level design is interesting. there is also an engaging 
 storyline to accompany the main game.
  
  I might sound really positive in this review so far, and the game is very good but the truth is 
 that it is not the best sonic game and it does not appeal to everyone. so take my advice and RENT 
 IT FIRST. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jake31287
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  We rented this game looking for a good party game. I was slightly dissappointed with Mario Part 
 8 after playing at a friends house. The graphics for MP8 were bland and very reminiscent of MP6 
 for the Gamecube. The gameplay was exactly the same aside from the wii remote. This game, however, 
 looks fantastic. Taking into account that the wii was not made for superior graphics, this game 
 has lush scenery, and just looks great and imaginative. The minigames are very fun. They make tons 
 of use of the wii remote's capabilities, but they were easy enough that my 43 year old mom could 
 play and enjoy the game. This games multiplayer is truly killer.
  
  The single player looks great and reminds me of the great genesis sonic games from back in the 
 day!
  
  PICK UP this game, it is totally worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hyperfludd
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  Sonic sure has been catching alot of flak lately hasn't he? His games as of late haven't really 
 been well received, and his first Next-Gen (or Current Gen by now) game was a complete and total 
 bust. In fact, that game was meant to be ported to Wii (Big Surprise..) but Sonicteam seems to 
 have caught wind of the innovative Wii remote and decided to make a whole new game altogether. 
 That game, is the game I will now review, Sonic and the Secret Rings for the Nintendo Wii System.
 
  
  As I pop in the disc into my Wii system, you could tell the game was well-developed due to the 
 Disc Channel's Intro. Many games on the Wii that aren't first party usually have terribly boring 
 and completely uninspiring Disc channel intros.
  
  As we head on into the game's main menu, we hear the games theme playing, and boy you better get 
 used to it, because you'll be hearing it ALL THE TIME.
  I, for one enjoy the games theme, but judging from other reviews, I'm in the minority in this section. 
 I also enjoyed the voice acting in the game, its really well done and Jason Anthony Griffith fits 
 perfectly as Sonic. Again, I am apparently in the minority here, so if your picky about this sort 
 of thing, you could knock a point off the score. You have four choices in the games first menu. 
 I'll explain each of them in detail:
  
  Adventure: This is the main game right here, with Sonic being the only playable hedgehog. In this 
 mode, you follow the game's plot while playing in the Various worlds of the game. The plot is loosely 
 based on the story, Arabian Nights. The story begins with Sonic napping, he reaches to check his 
 clock upon awakening, accidentally bumping a ring, Shahra the Ring Genie, pops out of a book of 
 the Arabian Nights and into Sonic's world. She reveals that an evil genie known as Erazor Djinn 
 is absorbing the power of the book and causing pages of it to disappear. If he is not stopped, 
 his power will be unleashed onto the real world unless the Legendary Blue Hedgehog , told of in 
 the stories, can stop him. Yeah, the story really isn't exactly ground breaking, but it fits. The 
 story is told in Story Book cutscenes, which are not completely animated, and are fully voiced. 
 This is really unique and gives to the games storybook style. There are also a few FMVs sprinkled 
 throughout the game.
  
  Now comes the most important part of ANY Wii game, the gameplay. In order to play SATSR, you have 
 to hold your Wii remote sideways, like a NES controller. In the game, most stages are on rails, 
 and Sonic move forward automatically. You use the Wiimote's motion sensor technology to tilt the 
 remote to the left or right, in order to turn Sonic in that corresponding direction. You can press 
 the 2 button to jump, and the 1 button to brake. When jumping, you can thrust the Wiimote forward 
 to make sonic burst forward and, if there is an enemy in sight, you can do a classic homing attack. 
 Overall, the controls of the game are pretty easy to understand, but to fully master them might 
 take some time getting used to them. Later into the game, you gain 2 new powers, Speed Break and 
 Time Break, which you can activate by pressing Up and down on the D-Pad respectively. Speed Break, 
 well, makes you run at breakneck speeds and Time Break slows the the flow of time so you can make 
 exact turns or timed jumps. The adventure mode also adds a RPG-like element into the mix, where 
 you can level up Sonic and customize him with special rings that give him different skills and 
 enhances others (Such as improved speed or turning) . There over 100 skills you can find in this 
 game, adding to the replay value of the game. Every stage has different missions in it, some optional 
 and some required to continue the story. You earn medals depending on how fast you complete the 
 mission, and some of those missions are really hard to ace. In fact, the difficulty spike in the 
 game is so random, you get one easy as pie mission, then you get one that will keep you frustrated 
 for days on end. The graphics are really good, being one of the first games to push the Wii's power 
 beyond gamecube limitations. Especially the Stages, they look really wonderful. The boss fights 
 in this game are few in number (5) , but boy are they memorable.
  They are really epic in some ways. Now on to the other modes.
  
  Party is the multiplayer aspect 
 of the game, and you can judge by it's name, its similar to Mario Party. It has over 40 Minigames, 
 and a variety of modes, but it really isn't that impressive. Some of the Minigames have really 
 sloppy controls. You can play with up to 4 people, and Sonic's friends are only playable in this 
 mode.
  
  Special Book is your little reward holder, contain tons and tons of unlockables. (Over 200!!) From 
 concept art to the History of Sonic, it WILL take a while to get it all. The final one is Options, 
 which should be obvious in any game. It might be worth to note you change a few settings to use 
 the Japanese voiceovers in game if you really hate the English voiceovers.
  
  Overall the game is very well worth the purchase, even if you're not a Sonic fan. The game is one 
 of the best adventure/rpg games on the Wii console. You owe it to yourself to at least give the 
 game a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bugexe
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  I know what you're thinking. Oh it's probably just like the other 2 recent crap sonic games. It's 
 just another Shadow the Hedgehog and no better than Sonic the Hedgehog for ps3 and 360, but check 
 again. Sonic comes back and slaps that rumor in our face. Though we aren't quite there yet, we're 
 damn near there. Let's explore each area.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  
  This is the part that is keeping this game from a possible perfect 10 or keeping from Gamespot 
 from giving it a 9.0 or better. The controls are extremely touch and just plain dumb at some points. 
 Sometimes controlling Sonic is damn near impossible and he will start moving even when you have 
 the break on. Sometimes they tend to be unresponsive even in the minigames. That being said there 
 are some good points too. The Wii being as flexible as it is incorporates an interesting way to 
 play the game and does use the motion sensoring very well in the mini games. It is interesting 
 how you move left and right. all you do is tilt the Wii remote left or right (you will be holding 
 the remote sideways) . The potential gameplay is promising, but needs some major improvements.
 
  
  Graphics 10/10
  
  I haven't seen something this beautiful for a long time. Perfect color and is sharp where it needs 
 to be sharp and soft where it needs to be soft. What more needs to be said?
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  Awesome songs for the most part. Sometimes you kinda where wondering what they 
 were thinking. Overall it is very good and impressive. The theme song could use some work. Also 
 the main villain needs a new voice actor. It's a good voice, but not for him.
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  I don't think I ever got bored. I got frustrated, but that kept it interesting. 
 Very fun and stays fun.
  
  Tilt: 10/10
  
  incredible game and there's nothing else i would dock off the game for.
  
  Overall: 9/10
 
  
  Very good game and very impressive, but needs to take a serious look at the controls. I strengthen 
 my faith in the Sonic Team and believe they still have potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anonymoe
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 8, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Fast, fast, fast; On-rails gameplay helps the camera a bit; Well-designed levels; Lots of 
 varied missions to play; Plenty of bonus features to go back to when you are done with the game; 
 Cool environments; Challenging; Unique story.
  
  Cons: That is quite cheesy; Cheesy rock music; Dull party mode; Graphics are outdated feeling; 
 Camera has issues still; Hard to get speed going sometimes; Not all controls work as they should; 
 Most of these cons make the game even harder than it should be Games like this are what make me 
 love my Wii. No, the controls are not amazingly immersive or anything, but the Wii (and its unique 
 controls) no doubt got SEGA thinking creatively on how it could revive a series that essentially 
 broke itself going into 3-D. And by setting the game on-rails, SEGA has made Sonic quite fun for 
 the first time in a while. Previous 3-D Sonic games gave you full control over your character in 
 the third dimension. Ironically, what makes SaTSR better is that it limits your control to left 
 and right, and moves Sonic forward automatically, thus keeping the speed, and giving a better camera 
 position. And it works. The best times in the game are the times where you are moving fast, and 
 you nearly get hit by something (such as flaming cannonballs) and keep running. These times come 
 enough that I can recommend a rental of this game. The story is also working in the right direction. 
 The basic premise is that a genie of a ring summons Sonic to go save the Arabian Nights from an 
 evil genie, who is plotting to destroy the stories, and rewrite them to his own liking. Many Sonic 
 characters (such as Tails, Knuckles, Eggman, etc) show up in cameos, which is a nice touch. Unfortunately, 
 even with a good premise, the delivery of the story is still shaky. Unfortunately, back on the 
 gameplay front there are also issues. For one, the camera is still pretty bad at times. The behind 
 the back approach works, but occasionally sinks too low, having Sonic block the view. And then 
 sometimes it tries to be dramatic (usually during loops) switching the angle altogether, but usually 
 swapping your left and right. Thankfully you arent usually in too much danger on a loop, but its 
 a bit of a pain. And the controls have their issues. Its pretty simple, where you hold the Wiimote 
 on its side, tilting it left to make Sonic go left, and tilting it right to make Sonic go right, 
 with 1 stopping him, and 2 making him jump. Those work great, and are responsive enough to get 
 you through the day. The other controls are a bit of an issue though. Specifically tilting the 
 controller towards you to make Sonic go backward (something you will need to do unfortunately) . 
 It sometimes doesnt respond, and hell keep running. Or there will be resistance usually. Without 
 these issues, the game would be a varied, entertaining, challenge that may require a few tries 
 occasionally, but would be fun all the way through. With these issues, the game sometimes borders 
 on too hard and will no doubt discourage some players from finishing it. When you count the constant 
 restarts on some missions, the game will be roughly 11-16 hours (depending on your skill level) . 
 However, SEGA was smart enough to include bonus missions that unlock only after completion, as 
 well as rank your progress on each mission (getting gold is a serious challenge that only the hardcore 
 should apply to) , and includes lots of bonus features. If this stuff interests you, boost the value 
 score up to 8. If you are only going to complete the campaign, drop the score to 6, and only rent 
 the game. As with the aforementioned gameplay issues, the sound is still a tad bit annoying. The 
 voice acting is passable (although the Erazor Djinns voice is weird in my opinion) is just passable, 
 but the music is downright stupid. Now, the instrumental parts to the songs are okay, and occasionally 
 catchy, but SEGA felt the need to cram singers in for no apparent reason (trust me, you will not 
 pay attention to the lyrics on most songs) , many of which seem to be bad rap singers. And worse, 
 one of the more obnoxious songs is replayed in the menus, as well as upon completing a mission. 
 The graphics fare a bit better. The environments are great, being both artistic and well detailed, 
 which is a nice surprise from a company who makes almost every Sonic game look like it is from 
 the Dreamcast. The character modelsstill feel like they are from the Dreamcast though. Sonic is 
 still fine, although starting to show his age, and bosses are fine, but everything else definitely 
 needed a tune up. Thankfully you wont pay attention to the graphics too much in the game though, 
 so this wont matter. In the end, Sonic and The Secret Rings is a pleasant surprise. It plays the 
 best out of any Sonic game, and begins working on some issues. And its challenging, which is rare 
 for a one-difficulty game nowadays. Unfortunately not everything is fixed, so I would only recommend 
 a rental to most people. Now all thats left is a sequel (hopefully) from SEGA that fixes the issues 
 leftover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malachi_27
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 8, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  When Sonic first hit the Genesis, my gosh was I ever freaked out. I was having problems about being 
 a hard core Sonic fan, or a hard core Mario fan. One reason I turned out to be more Mario is well... 
 you could save your game in Mario -- enough about that! What really made me a Sonic fan is when 
 Sonic Adventure came out for my Dreamcast. It was like experiencing great levels, graphics, and 
 a great storyline just like Super Mario 64 for the Nintendo 64. I never put that game down until 
 I was satisfied with beating it (which was a challenge) ! Sonic Adventure 2 then came out. I wasn't 
 satisfied... unimpressive storyline, and you're forced to play as other characters your not in 
 the mood to play with to advance with the storyline. Dreamcast came to and end, sadly. Sonic Heroes 
 came out. HATED IT! Using characters together is very amusing, but nothing that hasn't been done 
 in Sonic Adventure. Sonic the Hedgehog for XBOX 360. Not even worth mentioning, never play that 
 game! Now Sonic and the Secret Rings. Sonic is back, and I'm very satisfied. New game-play experience, 
 great graphics, and interesting storyline make this a game anyone should look into (don't let the 
 controls stop you, you WILL get used to them) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Em-Four
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 27, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings is everything a 3D Sonic should have been so long ago. The controls 
 are mostly well done, the graphics are some of the best on the Wii so far, and there's a fair amount 
 of replay value to go around. This is a game that should really please the majority of Sonic fans.
 
  
  The game is played by controlling Sonic's left and right movement as he speeds forward on his own. 
 While holding the controller sideways, tilting left and right cause Sonic to move appropriately. 
 The 1 button is used to slow him down, and the 2 button is used to jump. When in the air, pushing 
 the controller forward causes Sonic to do a homing attack on nearby enemies and object. Tilting 
 the controller back also allows Sonic to walk backwards. Unfortunately, some of the controls, notably 
 the walking backwards controls and twitch jumping, aren't very responsive when they need to be.
 
  
  The really outstanding parts of the game is how fun a lot of the levels are, and the visuals. This 
 is, easily, one of the best looking Wii games out there now. It's very disappointing that every 
 game on the Wii doesn't look this good. There's also a mediocre party mode included for Mario-Party-esque 
 play. It's nowhere near as flushed out as the Mario Party games, but a fair amount of the games 
 are clever and enjoyable.
  
  The faults in this game lie in some unresponsive controls, and lack of levels. There's only 7 levels 
 and 1 tutorial. There are 100+ missions spread out across these levels, and it can sometimes feel 
 annoying being in the same areas over and over for different reasons. The music in Sonic and the 
 Secret Rings is... hit or miss. The soundtrack includes a large number of cheesy rock songs mixed 
 with some middle eastern flair. Some of the songs are good and somewhat fit the surroundings, while 
 others are just really terrible and distract from what is, essentially, a good game.
  
  In conclusion, I'd say that this game is a must have for Sonic fans who have wanted a good 3D adventure 
 for a while now. For non-fans, it's a better rental than a purchase. Sonic and the Secret Rings 
 may not make up for the recent string of bad games on consoles, but it proves a 3D sonic game can 
 be as fun as it's 2D counterparts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebelILL
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings is Segas attempt to put a Sonic game on the Wii. The controls are ok 
 but this game would have been a lot better without using the Wiimote and with a conventional controller. 
 You dont have any control over Sonics actual running, instead you only have control over turning 
 Sonics directions and jumping. The graphics on this game are impressive compared to other Wii 
 games and can keep up with the action well. The soundtrack for this game is HORRIBLE and sounds 
 as if it were made by a drunken garage band. Its almost worth renting this game just to hear the 
 soundtrack and the crappy voice acting. When all said and done, this game works but is nothing 
 compared to the classic Sonic games on the Genesis. If you are a Sonic fan and have a Wii its worth 
 renting. If you have a Wii and would like to try something new, rent it. But I wouldnt suggest 
 buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlyinM_X
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 25, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Many third-party games on the Wii so far have been just slapped together ports with lousy control 
 schemes, horrid graphics, and have been downright disappointing. Sonic is one of the few games 
 to not fit in this category. It is a unique, innovative, and beautiful game that, for the most 
 part, succeeds.
  The single player game is supposed to be based on the stories of the Arabian Nights after Sonic 
 is sucked into the world of the book. In order to save the world of the book, he must retrieve 
 the 7 world rings and defeat the Erazor Djinn. Sadly, this story is water thin and is one of the 
 worst aspects of this game. Instead of true cutscenes, many of them appear as semi-still images, 
 kind of like a comic book. The voice acting ranges from decent to hilariously awful, but can be 
 turned to Japanese if you like.
  There are several worlds in the main adventure, each divided into several missions. They range 
 from simple get from point A to point B missions to others such as ring collecting, survival, and 
 beat the clock missions. The level design is good for the main missions, but many of the extra 
 missions take place in either a small part of the original level, or a slightly altered version 
 of the whole stage. It would have been nice to see a different level for each challenge, the whole 
 thing just feels a little cheap.
  It is a good thing though that the game looks absolutely beautiful. The levels look incredible 
 and the backgrounds are active and pretty. The comic-like cutscenes look nice, but still don't 
 make up for the lack of true cutscenes. However the few real cutscenes are arguably the best looking 
 parts of the game.
  The voices, nor most of the music, are very appealing. They are passable, but the environmental 
 noises and classic Sonic sound effects keep the overall sound from being too lousy.
  The actual gameplay is 3-D platformer with some RPG elements thrown in. The levels are on rails, 
 with Sonic constantly on the move. You tilt the remote left and right to have Sonic move side to 
 side, use the 2 button to jump, and the 1 button to brake. You can backtrack by pulling the remote 
 toward you and perform the famous homing attack by thrusting forward. Completing missions earns 
 you experience, and levelling up teaches you skills, gives you points to equip these skills, and 
 occasionally increases ring and soul gauge capacity. These skills are vital to your success, giving 
 you different upgrades that will allow Sonic to run faster, increase his homing attack range, and 
 provide bonus rings at the start of a level, just to name a few. The game overall plays very well, 
 however the controls can occasionally be a bit clumsy and loose. Fortunately it isn't common enough 
 to become frustrating.
  Getting gold medals and collecting fire souls will unlock an assortment of goodies as well as extras 
 for the multiplayer mode. However, the multiplayer is poor overall, consisting of some of the most 
 irritating minigames that can be unplayable at times. The AI for the multiplayer is bad, and this 
 whole mode is a joke, unfortunately.
  Overall, Sonic Team has created a fairly good game. If future Sonic games
  improve on the story, 
 voice acting, and multiplayer. This could become a perfect series for the Wii console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hedgehog_bhoy
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Sonic gets his debut on the Wii and its jam-packed full of speed from the Blue-Blur! Sonic's debut 
 on the Wii was a smart move from SEGA and Sonic Team, because frankly my fellow Sonic fans, Sonic 
 the Hedgehog was going down the tubes. But Secret Rings saved him from non-existence. Sonic has 
 had some terrible games since he went into 3D, especially Sonic Heroes and Sonic the Hedgehog for 
 360 and PS3. Sonic Riders being an OK game. Sonic and the Secret Rings is a brilliant game with 
 great gameplay, graphics, voices, backgrounds and music. My favourite song is Seven Rings in Hand! 
 Sonic didn't disappoint me in this game. On the contrary I was incredibly happy with this game! 
 This game used the Wii-Mote in a brilliant fashion and it really payed off in the end! It deserves 
 two big thumbs up! It still keeps the original ring-collecting and  
 (Homing Attack) , which is cool! I loved Sonic and the Secret Rings and it also saved Sonic from 
 extinction which I was really happy about! Sonic and the Secret Rings was an outstanding game and 
 I was really happy to see Sonic back in action! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snowjo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 26, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings manages to bring the speed back into Sonic which with the more recent 
 sonic games sonic lost the speed that made him so famous in the first place. But now he back faster 
 than ever and with attitude. Plot:
  Sonic whilst resting at home after a tiring adventure (we can guess) gets sucked into a book from 
 the arabian nights. and was chosen to defeat the Erazor Djinn whi was a genie that served his time 
 in a lamp and has gone on a rampage destroying the book so he can escape to the real world (Sonic's 
 world) . Shortly after being sucked in the book he encounters Erazor and gets shot with a magic 
 arrow that has a flame and in a certain amount of time will kill sonic unless he collect the 7 
 power rings and gives them to Erazor will he be saved from death. Gameplay: the gameplay takes 
 some getting used to and reading the booklet throughly will help and repeating the training levels 
 as best you can to get used to the controls. the speed starts quite slow though you wont think 
 this at first but later on when you have more upgrades you will realise how slow you were going 
 before but it is done so you will gradually get faster and so you will not be overwhelmed so you 
 can keep control and stay used to the controls and speed. it is quite fun tilting the controller 
 to move left to right suddenly dont ask me why. jumping and braking is done using the 1 &amp; 2 
 buttons but attacks are done by pushing the controller forward when you are locked onto the enemy. 
 or just for a quick boost or long jump the same action is used because sometimes to maintain speed 
 the jump boost is a quicker way of picking up speed that just wait for sonic to speed up on his 
 own after hitting something.
  
  Graphics: My initial thought was just wow though i dont own a hi-def console so for those 360 &amp; 
 PS3 owners will wonder why i loved the graphics. but it is easily the best looking Wii game out 
 at the moment with the possible exception of Resi 4. anyway they are clean and the motion blur 
 effect was done well .
  
  Sound: can get very annoying the music is generally indian style sounds that you would expect such 
 as the level up sounds. personally i did enjoy the main theme Seven Rings in Hand but after a while 
 of hearing it after every level and everytime you turn on the game it will start to annoy which 
 is probably why most people hate the song.
  
  Value: It is actually quite short as there is not alot worth doing after you beat the story mode 
 as the multiplayer mode is a bit unimaginative as it is like Mario party but not done as well and 
 the controls of some of the minigames are so bad they will annoy you. the unlockables are mainly 
 pointless unless you enjoy unlocking a picture of an old sonic game case until you get about 80 
 silver medals when the rewards start to differ. so after the initial story there is not alot to 
 come back to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soniciscool15
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 23, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Sonic game ever, in history. The Speed break and Time break are very very helpful 
 at times, and the new max length of the homing attack, friggin' sweet. The ending is AWESOME for 
 once we can be an evil sonic! DarkSpines looks freakin awesome! The story is a little wierd, but 
 its funny, and fun at the same time. I like how you use the Wii Remote to do things, it's like 
 you're actually there, if it were first Person. The new max speed, even without speed break, is 
 faster then any other Sonic speed to date. I would recommend this for any Sonic, new Sonic, and 
 Hard-Core Sonic fans to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostadv
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 17, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Now, in my reviews I just do an easy pro's and cons sorta thing and give a li'l explanation on 
 why it is or it isn't good. Just letting you know.
  
  Pros:
  - Nice graphics. Nothing exceptional, but it's one of the Wii's better looking games. Some of the 
 objects and enemies look a li'l meh, but for the most part the game looks fine.
  - Presentation. The story telling may seem a li'l cheap, but I honestly thought it wasn't that 
 bad, and the menus are easy to navigate and understand.
  - Voice Acting. One of the few games that let's you pick the original Japanese VA's rather than 
 the okay American ones.
  - Lot's to do. There's a few extra quests that can keep you occupied should you get bored with 
 teh story.
  
  Cons:
  - Music. It's basic boring rock stuff. I like rock music, but the stuff they put in here doesn't 
 fit with the Arabian Nights theme all that well. That and whatever menu you're on you hear nearly 
 the same exact song which gets annoying.
  - Controls. Now first off, let me say the controls aren't too bad, but sometimes they feel a little 
 floaty, and backing up is kind of a pain.
  - Get's boring. Surprisingly, after beating two 'sections' of levels, I just got bored. It's fun 
 for a li'l bit, but it sadly wears off quickly.
  
  So there you have it. It's not a bad game, but it's not all that good either, almost has a love 
 or hate vibe to it. The graphics are nice, and when the controls work well, they're fine, but as 
 soon as you have to stop and backup you notice how they could've improved it. Rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolf360rev
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 17, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  This is indeed one of the worst sonic games I have played and I am a pretty big fan of sonic to 
 this game is not worth the $50.00 price tag though it is not a terrible it can still be a lot of 
 fun. I was also bored of this game by playing through the same levels again to get more missions 
 and move on to the next stage. Well this time you do not have a camera fight as much but the whole 
 sonic running on is own is kind of annoying I would of rather have complete control of sonic like 
 the other games and if whenever sega decides to make another sonic game for the wii hopefully they 
 will let us have complete control and have like the sonic adventure games.
  
  There is also leveling up on this game and you also get 4 rings and decidde what power-ups you 
 give to the rings, but you do have to unlock the power up in the game and the worst of the controls 
 are the backing-up, walking/running and this one thing where in some large ring thing and have shoot 
 sonic out of it.
  
  Also the sound and controls are not very great either and there not the worst and the Graphics 
 in the game are pretty good surprisinglly which even that doesn't save the hooror of this game 
 the other sonic game I played that was terrible was Sonic fighters.
  
  Overall I say if your huge sonic fan buy it, but I recommend renting it first if you want save 
 your money. There are other games out there and this is the worst game or the best game it is just 
 onne of the worst sonic games which I still have not finished yet which I shall eventually. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto703
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 17, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  This is the game that saves our poor little blue hedgehog. This is a great game built from the 
 groend up with the Wii's new controls. Thedreaded camera angles are no more and the controls sre 
 great. You always move forward and you steer him. The graphics are good and shine in some areas. 
 The sound will most likely leave your ears cringing in pain when you start the game up. You ears 
 will bleed until they eventually fall off. It will grow on you after playing 167 stages but they 
 could do better. It is a short but sweet adventure. When you get hit you will restart the level 
 until you get it right. Yeah you heard (read) me. You will want to restart it. When is the last 
 time you wanted to restart a Sonic game? This is a great title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: troakun
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 16, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Personally speaking, this game is the one Wii game I have been really exited about. Lets just 
 cut to the chase here, although every one loves the classic 2D trilogy, its the 3D medium that 
 will decide if Sonic sticks around for yet another 15 years. However it is also the 3D medium that 
 the Sonic series has continually failed at perfecting (In fact if anything the games have gotten 
 gradually worse) . So naturally when I heard that there was finally going to be a 3D Sonic that 
 brought the fun of the original games to the table, well, I was pretty damn exited; but how does 
 the game match with the hype?
  
  Well, lets get one thing straight. This is not a Sonic game in the classical 2D sense. The original 
 games were always about quality, you had around seven or eight levels with two or three acts each, 
 which was nothing compared to what you would get out of a Mario game. However, this was acceptable 
 because each level was unique and each act had to be manufactured just right so that when Sonic 
 jumped he didnt over/under shoot the next off-screen platform. This game is all about quantity. 
 Instead of just a handful of acts were given over one hundred chapters that beat the unique-ness 
 of each level into the dirt by filling them with the same old enemies and gimmicks.
  
  Frustration is also a huge problem as well. Many chapters of this game are designed solely to frustrate 
 you with seemingly impossible obstacles and gold medal requirements that require nothing slower 
 then top-speed. While on one hand this certainly provides a good challenge it also makes for levels 
 that just arent fun to replay once youve finally mastered them. This is probably the games single 
 greatest weakness simply because it ruins what would otherwise be fantastic level designs.
  
  Speaking of which, one praise about SatSR that I dont usually hear is how cool and varied 
 the level designs actually are. When SatSR was first announced to be based on the tales of The 
 Arabian Nights many skeptics expected a series of desert levels (mostly people who have never read 
 the multi-continent spanning literary masterpiece) . Instead, the liberties the designers have taken 
 with the books many settings have created levels that are both beautiful and distinct. For example 
 there is King Solomons ash covered graveyard kingdom and Sinbads prison on top of a re-imagined 
 Roc (now a giant flying manta ray) ; also for the record the game contains but one desert-themed 
 level and even in that level the desert is but one of many features (a lake, underground tunnels, 
 palace walls, city streets, etc.) .
  
  While SatSR was certainly not the game I had been hoping for I did find it really fun and despite 
 some serious control, difficulty, musical, and multiplayer related flaws the game is still the 
 best 3D Sonic (even including Sonic Adventure) . While the ill-advised Sonic Riders meets Super 
 Mario 64 game design might deter many traditional Sonic game fans, others still will love the challenge 
 of unlocking all the bonus content and the unparalleled sense of speed one has when blasting through 
 the missions. Its just a shame the developers didnt create more stages that were actually fun 
 to blast through (as opposed to frustrating) . Hopefully they will keep this in mind for the inevitable 
 sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kool_Chao
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Sonic is back! I do respect other opinions but I believe this game represents a huge step in righting 
 all the wrongs of the past. Secret Rings is fun, all about speed and skill and it represented a 
 worthy challenge for the first time in many Sonic years !
  I don't remember a time when I had to learn to play a Sonic game until I tried Secret Rings. Sure 
 the controls are awkward at first, but once you get used to them you'll be performing homing attacks 
 and grinding and using the special skills with ease!
  So, if you're a Sonic fan buy this game and you won't be sorry. If you're not, here's a good chance 
 to become one!
  Also, don't forget the incredible soundtrack and the fun-for-all party games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 6, 2007 6:22 am PT
Review:  I'm a Nintendo fan since way back, always have been, but I have always had a soft spot for Sonic 
 even though he was once considered the mortal enemy of us Nintendians.
  
  Sadly after the downfall of the Dreamcast, fans have endured a number of medicore to bad 3D adventures 
 on the consoles and while Sonic's handheld adventures still had the old charm, the 3D adventures 
 were plagued with bad controls and twitchy camera angles. Most recently was the disasterous Sonic 
 the Hedgehog on the 360 and PS3.
  
  Sonic and the Secret Rings is sort of an apology for that. It's not perfect but it's a step back 
 in the right direction.
  
  This game breaks from the traditional Sonic Adventure format and storylines that were in the last 
 few games. In this game Sonic had fallen asleep while reading 1001 Arabian Nights when he is awakened 
 by a genie girl named Sharha. She tells Sonic that her world is being destroyed by an evil genie 
 named Erazor Djinn and she has come searching for the legendary blue hedgehog to come save the 
 world.
  
  This game ditches the adventure format and focuses on an on rails adventure meaning Sonic is fast 
 again. Sonic is constantly running this time. You tilt the Wii-mote left to right to steer as with 
 Excite Truck. The 1 button allows you to brake and the 2 button allows you to jump with the d-pad 
 later on, allowing Sonic to do a speed burst or slow time.
  
  As Wii games go it shows remarkable creativity in the controls. It's nice to see a third party 
 publisher really use Nintendo's new controller in a unique way. There's a variety of obstacles 
 Sonic encounters that use the remote. You can shake it to make a jar fly or pull it back to launch 
 yourself in a catapult. Also you can pull it back to make Sonic move backwards (though this can 
 be hazardous because you can see what's behind you) and when an enemy has a bullseye on it you 
 flick the remote to do your homing attack. This is the most accurate the homing attack has ever 
 been.
  
  In case you haven't noticed in the screen shots, Secret Rings is a pretty game. After so much PS2, 
 GC shovelware titles, this shows how graphically powerful the Wii truly is. Stages range from a 
 desert oasis to a dinosaur jungle to an arabian place. Sadly there's only 8 and to compenstate 
 each world is broken up into additional missions where you may traverse either places you had been 
 before or leftover areas the designers didn't get into the main stage. Some can be downright frustrating, 
 others rely on memorization. Still, if you want to unlock character art and tracks, there is an 
 addicting quality to go back and up your score.
  
  This game also includes 2 Skill Rings which you can equip with abilities to make Sonic faster, 
 improve balance and reduce damage. Alot of skills aren't needed to complete the game but the ring 
 customization is worth looking into.
  
  Ever since Sonic started talking in Sonic Adventure these games aren't known for their brilliant 
 voice talent and this is no different. There's only one beautiful CG cutscene in the game and the 
 rest a static illustrations though for this I think it was to add to the storybook feel of the 
 game. The music isn't awful, but not memorable and the select stage screen music get annoying after 
 a while.
  
  Finally there's the mulitplayer party mode. I get the impression that the Sonic Team added this 
 at the last minute in order to give Tails and Knuckles something to do. The graphics of party mode 
 aren't as nice as the single player and while they make good use of the Wii controls, they're not 
 particularly memorable.
  
  Overall, Sonic and the Secret Rings is a decent game. Like with many Wii games, the controls take 
 some getting used to but this time when you die, it's because of a high speed collision, not a 
 jerky camera blocking your view. If you're a Sonic fan and have a Wii, this is a good addition 
 to your library. It's still not the glorious 3D comeback we've been hoping for but it's a step 
 back in the right direction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowbladeX
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2007 3:26 am PT
Review:  When Sonic first made the transition into 3D gaming, it didnt go so well. fter the fall of th dreamcast, 
 Sonic turned to nintendo, producing a few good games, such as Sonic Adventure 2: Battle, and Sonic 
 Heroes. however recently some of the best sonic games have in fact been the still fairly 2D games 
 on hand-held devices. already witht he next-gens, sonic the hedgehog on Xbox360 has already been 
 rated an extremely disappointing game. But Sonic and the Secret Rings takes it all back to the 
 beginning, and brings so much good with it! In the game, Sonic is taken into the tales of the Arabian 
 Nights byt te genie of the ring, to stop another genie from wiping out the stories. straight off 
 theres on big change, Sonic's friends are gone! tails, knuckles, amy, even the new pal Shadow are 
 nowhere to be seen. SonicTeam has taken it all the way back to the original Sonic game, where it 
 was just the blue hedgehog. and it does extremely well. the graphics are obviously fantastic. another 
 big thing in the game are the controls and movement. Sonic doesnt stop running, he just keeps going. 
 all you do is move, dodge, attack, jump and the latter to get him through the levels, but for the 
 most part, Sonic does not stop running! this works well and helps emphasize the hedgehogs speed. 
 in the game you have a flame, (which you will now the origin and reason when you play the game) 
 and you have a bar that builds up. when you activate this, Sonc moves at supersonic speed, blazing 
 through the levels until the bar runs out, or you deactivate it. this is great, and is sometign 
 that was partially tried in the game, Shadow the Hedgehog, but bombed then and is now mastered. 
 overall the game is fairly lengthy but wont take too long to finish at all. the storyline is great 
 and in-depth, the gameplay is fantastic, and any sonic fan will have hours of fun with this. Enjoy! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schoolsucks2005
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 12:39 am PT
Review:  This is a very good Sonic game. Okay, it isn't perfect, it could be improved in some areas, but 
 it is still an enjoyable experience. It also takes Sonic back to its 2D roots a little, and does 
 it in style and fast 3D action. The graphics are pretty nice and colourful and I haven't found 
 any glitches yet, which is good. The gameplay is good, but the controls are kind of strange so 
 you have to get used to them to be able to enjoy this game. Sonic is also the only playable character 
 in this game, which could be considered good for now since playing as Amy or Big wasn't exactly 
 the best (but I still liked playing as the other characters) The levels are very well layed out 
 and the bosses are a lot of fun to verse. The new characters are okay. Shahra tells you what you 
 have to do in the training levels, so it's best just to train through them to get used to the controls 
 before going into the levels, I find that a lot easier. I liked the fact that Tails and Knuckles 
 also starred in this game as Arabian characters, it was a little weird seeing them like that but 
 pretty creative. The one thing I really liked about this game was the intense speed, but the fixed 
 paths are a little annoying especially if you missed any fire souls or rings along the way. The 
 mini games are also surprisingly fun and there are quite a few things you can do.
  
  This is a good Sonic game. A little flawed in some areas, but still worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joseph113
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 4, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  This game has a great gameplay which makes you really get into the game. The controls are very 
 simple and easy to master . The gamplay is what makes this game shine the way it does. This could 
 possibly be one of the best on-rails game to date. Also the game includes its own collection of 
 mini-games which are really not the best available.
  
  The graphics are beautiful but i guess its due to the fact its on rails. One of the problems with 
 the game is sound. Of all the things to make this game bad its sound. It has an old 80's rock song 
 which constantly loops throughout the menus game and everything else.
  
  This game has really good value. You can play through the game for a very long time immersed in 
 the world of the Arabian nights. Also once you've played through you can keep going trying to get 
 gold on all the levels and unlock the ridiculous amount of videos pictures and other achievements. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xdude85
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2008 1:20 am PT
Review:  Another game I've been looking forward to so much and I'm just glad to own such a great game.
 
  
  Plot: Our hero Sonic the Hedgehog is confronted my a mysterious genie named Shahra, who tells Sonic 
 the that stories of the Arabian Nights book is being erased by an evil genie named Erazor. If Erazor 
 is successful in destroying the Arabian Nights book, he will gain enough power to escape the book 
 and cause havoc and destruction upon the real world. Sonic must now venture into the Arabian Nights 
 book along with the help of Shahra, defeat Erazor before it's too late.
  
  Game Play: The Wii remote gives you a whole new look on controlling Sonic, for instance you don't 
 have to press any button to make Sonic move forward, Sonic just gains momentum and goes faster 
 as long as he doesn't hit and objects or enemies. Tilt the Wii remote left and right to make Sonic 
 move left and right, press the 2 button to make Sonic jump, pressing and holding the 2 button will 
 give Sonic a higher jump. To use Sonic's classic spinning air strike move, jump up in the air with 
 the 2 button and thrust the Wii remote forward to hit enemies or objects.
  
  Graphics: Visuals in game play are very neat and detailed in each level, the cut scenes are well 
 done too.
  
  Sound: Each level has it's own little theme to it which sounds good, the game also has a decent 
 cast of voice actors too.
  
  Overall another excellent addition to the Sonic franchise, my only compliant to this game are the 
 controls, they're very unique and everything but it can sometimes get a little frustrating a bit. 
 Other than that, Sonic and the Secret Rings is a great example of the Wii's great game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazercom
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 4, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  The game looks good at first except the fact that the cutscene are made of old book pages and nearly 
 don't move, then you have to do a different mission for every skill in the tutorial world can't 
 they just tell you what to do in the first stage like usual?
  Tilting the wiimote to move left and right is ok but it doesnt respond fast enough when you want 
 to catch a trail of rings on the other side of the screen and then if you missed something the 
 worst thing happens, you have to pull the wiimote back in some way and hope that sonic will start 
 to slowly walk back, it can take 2 or 3 times to do it right. I wish I could just press a button 
 and be done with it.
  
  Aside from the controls, the missions available seems to come out a random and I never know how 
 much of these little missions I have to do to unlock another world or get a world ring.
  
  I'm actually a big fan of the wii and sonic but this game made me lose hope in new sonic games. 
 I think this is the worst sonic game in 3D except for Sonic the hedgehog on Xbox 360 and PS3 of 
 course but at least you could move in any direction you want.
  
  Oh well, the music in the Adventure Menu is really good though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nelrazzaz
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 3, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  This game so much great graphics then all the other sonic games. If you go to the videos that they 
 give you then you'll see that the graphics on those videos are way different then the game play. 
 It kind of looked like playstation 3 graphics because they really show you the grass, the castle, 
 and Sonic. They really made sonic look really real. In the game it takes a lot of concentration 
 and a lot of time you have to have on your hands because the courses are really long especially 
 if you have to clear the stage not just collecting rings or breaking jars. Overall the game was 
 amazing and I am going to give it such a good review that I can't even explain it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrimusStream
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 3, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  The storyline, graphics, and the sound in the game were alright but the game play was not what 
 I have expected. I did not like the indirect on-rails method of control in which Sonic moves forward 
 automatically in various paths. It seems hard to control at some parts of the game of moving left 
 and right to avoid each obstacles in each missions. The missions and stages were interesting at 
 some point of the game. I would give this game somewhere in between a good and a bad game for the 
 Wii and for the Sonic game. I liked it a lot when you control Sonic, but not making him move automatically. 
 That was really hard to do when he is moving automatically. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walla_homie
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 3, 2007 1:15 am PT
Review:  One of the newest sonic games, only have 7 STAGES!!! and the half of them is worth playing. ther 
 are 7 stages (and 100 missions, but no of them is fun more like boring) that is so boring that 
 you want to plok you eyes out, and the controls are so stupid, you feel like trapt in a long small 
 road wear you just have to press the 2buttom to do everything.
  
  the 2player is the worst thing ref this game, you dont get a distribtion or eny thing before you 
 start a minigame, no no no... you most find out how to control.
  
  two words: dont play this game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubble-wrap
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 31, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Lets face it Sonics debut into the world of 3D games has been anything but stellar. They never 
 have quite captured the feeling of speed that was in the 2D ones. Now after years of 3D Sonic games 
 ,Sega return to their roots in the newest addition, Sonic and the Secret Rings for the Nintendo 
 Wii. Since it is on the Wii the controllers are going to be unique. You hold the Wii remote sideways, 
 To turn you tilt the controller, To jump you press 2 and the longer you hold it the higher you 
 go. When you are in the air you can thrust the Wii remote forward to do a homing attack, and 1 
 is the brake which you will not use very often. These controls work well and most of the time are 
 very responsive. It is also a fun way to control Sonic but it will take some time to get used to 
 so you will not be able just to pick up the game and be a pro right off the bat. The game is really 
 fun PART of the time. There are several types of missions that you have to play. The normal kind, 
 which is clearly the best, is just reach the goal as fast as you can. These are very fun but then 
 you are forced to play through almost the exact same level but with a slightly altered dumb objective 
 like dont get killed. These can be very frustrating and most of the time are not very fun. They 
 put in some RPG (role playing games) elements where you level up and get different skills and more 
 skill points.
  
  The story is a bit different, it is about being in a book of the Arabian Knights and you have to 
 stop the main villain from destroying the book and escaping into the real world . The story works 
 but is not particularly good or bad. It is just average but Sonic games has never been really story 
 driven. Possibly the worst part of the whole game is the horrible voice acting, especially for 
 the main villain. The graphics of the game are quite impressive especially for the Wii and portrays 
 the speed Sonic is going very well. Also the opening cut scene is crystal clear and very impressive.
 
  
  Over all this is a good game but not great because of a few rather annoying faults. It looks good, 
 is easy and fun to control, has good levels, but is pulled down by the bad voice acting and requiring 
 to replay levels with only slightly changed objectives. There are some multi-player mini-games 
 that are ok but there are a lot better collections of mini-games on the Wii. If you are a big 2D 
 or 3D Sonic fan this is a must buy and for anyone else it will be entertaining for awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sho565
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 17, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  It looks like Sonic's in a twist 1 he's a Night 2 he has a arrow of judgement and 3 he has to finish 
 the Arabian Nights story let's start shall we? What can I say sega has impressed me again.
  Gameplay=Yes the Wii remote you have to use. Like always he's very fast in the level's tilting wii-mote 
 foward makes him run ahead backward he will go backwards. It's 7 level's on this game plus they 
 get harder and harder each try you also have to obtain level's for Sonic and item's to upgrade 
 him. The diffuculty is just right for the new peaple to the Wii so it's worth $50.00. I must say 
 the multiplayer is extrodnary!
  
  Graphic's=Some of you said that the color is good well it is not the graphic's kinda darkl but 
 noticeable. Good quility tho.
  
  Sound=The sound reacts on time for example if you have to turn you can actully hear his shoes scratching 
 the ground. When you use speed break it sound like fire (it is fire) . Collecting rings, pearls and 
 other items also react on the sound good.
  
  Value=This game is another top sega game let's put it like that. Its worth your while.
  
  Just 
 like he said on SA2 I'm just a guy that loves adventure!! Sonic The Hedghog! By the way this is another 
 1 of those games that makes you wanna buy a Wii and a rechargeable battery. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicRevolution
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 27, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  This game was a fine achievement for Sega and it wouldn't be a disappointment to most Sonic fans. 
 Taking advantage of the Wii's controller, it opens a new and different style of game play. In this 
 game you definitly feel like your going fast. The graphics were slightly disappointing in some 
 places, but overall they did well and, at last, they managed to over come the issue of having too 
 many playable characters. In this game its Sonic all the way from start to finish in the story. 
 The only problem with the game's gameplay is probably the response with the controller sometimes 
 the console doesn't read your moves and Sonic could die from these actions, but it's not common 
 and this game has hardly any glitches at all, compared to the last game, this ones practically 
 glitch free. Even though this game won't have gotten all of Sonic fans back in a positive mood, 
 this is a good root to grow back from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow4eva13
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 23, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Though it may not be the best Sonic out there. Sonic and the Secret Rings is more of an experiment 
 with Sonic and Wii together. It's not terrible, but some things could be improved. The controls 
 are, at times, akward and hard to use. The Homing Attack targetting takes longer than it should 
 and slows down the gameplay. A little more fluidity in level design would have been nice. Also 
 the missions seem not to make sense. I'd have like to have seen more full levels rather than rehashing 
 certain points in it and call it a mission. The soundtrack is not that great either. Heavy metal's 
 fine, but not in a sonic game, sorry. On the positive graphics are great, the ring customization 
 adds a littler flavor to the mix. Story is, though odd for a Sonic title, very well done. Overall 
 Sonic is a Rent it before you buy type game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simian92
Rating: 6
Date: May 21, 2007 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - 5
  
  overall, the gameplay here in SatSR just doesn't live up, not only are on-rail adventures just 
 not that great, but the wiimote just isn't that great for them, the motion sensing just isn't yet 
 perfect, if they could perfect it, then this game may be a bit better.
  the control of Sonic in SatSR just doesn't feel right, for games like Zelda and excite truck, it 
 felt natural to swing and turn, for SatSR, it just feels like it was made for the GCN and just 
 missed its prime, so they stuck on wii controls and called it a day.
  the gameplay just is plain repetitive, the missions are too long and drive on and on and on and 
 on and on and on and on, only to find out you didn't get all the secret items, so you have to do 
 it all again. only to open up the next world and have to play the same type of mission again on 
 a different world.
  
  Graphics - 7
  avg sonic graphics, nothing new, nothing bad
  
  Sound - 7
  avg sonic music and sound effects
  
  value/reviewers tilt
  i only use these 
 to even out the score to what i think the game deserves 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaigo2k4
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 21, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  This game starts off fun at first, but after playing the fame for a few hours it starts to get 
 boring. You do the same thing on every level such as running, running, and more running, which 
 is what a sonic game is known for. The boss battles and challenges become annoying after a while 
 as well. The rewards from completing the challenges barely make a difference as well.
  
  Th Gamply is fun with the Wii remote and chuck. Getting the hang of usign the controller as is 
 drivaing a car is bothersome at first, btu when you get the hang of it it works out. The Graphics 
 are pretty good though, except when it comes to telling the narrative of the story. Using slide 
 shows to tell the story are gone and dead!
  
  The sound is fine, nothing to special about it.
  
  Overall, I'd say this would make a good 
 rental. If you're looking for a good multiplayer game just play Wii Sports or Mario Party 8. This 
 game doesn't take long to beat either on single player mode, but after completing it there's no 
 point on playing through it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic-wii
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 17, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  GAeplay: In this game, you hold the Wii remote sideways. Tilt it left and right to movie sonic, 
 and sonic automatically runs forward. 2 button is jump and move the wii remote forward to do Homing 
 attack. This game has two really cool special moves that sonic can do. They're called Speed Break, 
 and Time Break. Speed Break sends Sonic speding though the level and killing all monsters in his 
 way. Time Break Slows Down time and slows down Sonic, time break helps alot. Both of these moves 
 must be unlocked. This game has unlockables so you need to unlock better speed, higher jumping, 
 and more. In the beggining you have nothin unlocked so Sonic runs really slow. I think that is 
 good for the begging so people can get used to the controls. Later, after you unlock Perfect Speed 
 Sonic is faster than he has ever been. The party games are fun. They're not as bad as everyone 
 says. There are tournaments and lots of other cool Party Game things. The story is one of the best 
 Sonic stories ever! The world of the Arabian Nights book is being destroyed by Erazor Djinn (from 
 Aladin) , Sonic is supposed to be the legendary blue hedgehog that saves their universe. He has 
 to stop Erazor Djinn before he has enough power to come into the real world. There is a genie named 
 Shara who helps Sonic with his adventures. The few bad things about the gameplay are that there 
 are not enough levels (too much missions) , not enough attacks, and the unlockables SOMETIMES are 
 a pain. Overall the gameplay is superbly fun.
  
  Graphics: This games graphics are the best graphics that any other sonic game has ever had!! Sound: 
 The music is cool and it goes with the Arabian Nights theme. The voices are the voices from the 
 4kids TV show, and i like those voices. I think these voices are good.
  
  Value: It's hard to explain but it is definently good value.
  
  Tilt: I have two wii games, 
 wii sports and this. Wii Sports won't be played for a long time.
  
  Gamespot, this game is better than a 7.6. And how could you rate wii sports a 7.8. SONIC AND THE 
 SECRET RINGS IS BETTER!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Majura
Rating: 6.4
Date: May 19, 2007 11:17 pm PT
Review:  There are games which are just fun to play. There are games which feel more like work then a game. 
 And there are games which are so frustrating, that you have no fun in playing it.
  Sonic and the secret Rings starts as a game of the first category. The controls work just fine, 
 and untill you beat the story, difficulty is perfectly balanced. Afterwards, there is not much 
 of a thrive to keep playing. The story is certainly not worth of making a movie out of it, but 
 it does what it should do: give Sonic (and the player) some sort of excuse to go on an adventure.
 
  After you beat the story, there are still about 50 missions left to get through, with some added 
 difficulty. Like most people, I tried to get through those as well. But there was far less fun 
 in the game. I don't think the actual story had anything to do with it, but more like the feeling 
 that your not advancing anymore.
  After a while, the game gets very hard. This is not my problem. I like a good challenge, and the 
 biggest problem with games these days is that they are way too easy. The secret Rings just fails 
 to deliver it in a nice package. You will die many, many times, and most likely, you will die 20 
 times AT THE VERY SAME SPOT before you finally get further into the level, die again, and start 
 all over again. You will certainly keep playing, just because you hate the thought that you have 
 been defeated. But it won't be fun anymore, only frustrating. I eventually said something like 
 'Good, I finally beat that mission. Now I am going to have fun some other way!'
  
  For the graphic part; this is one one the best-looking games for the Wii. There has been much eye 
 for detail, nothing of it all looks generic, and it's all just smooth and fits the theme. nothing 
 wrong there, but also not mind-blowing. Even now, I feel the Wii has more horsepower then this.
 
  I only wish the music was as good. The soundtrack from the Sonic Adventures doesn't have many 
 fans, even though I liked it. But this was just HORRIBLE! It's repetitive, the lyrics don't make 
 any sense, and the theme song 'seven rings in hand' has been horribly overused as menu, mission 
 success and mission failure jingle. Note that this is also the worst of all songs, so it will irritate 
 you to the bone.
  
  I can't say I hate this game. It has been fun untill the end of the story. But it was just too 
 frustrating to keep playing. There ARE people who succeeded in completing the game 100%, and they 
 have earned my respect with that. But I will never do so, I got more fun things to do! Rent the 
 game first, you can beat the story within three days, and if you REALLY like what comes after it, 
 you can always buying. But I did stop recommending this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EpiHeroOfTime
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 17, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  While the concept of Sonic as a continually moving on-rails type of game seems to stray far from 
 what Sonic is about, it actually works out and rather enforces what Sonic games are all about, 
 the awesome sense of speed.
  The biggest change game play wise is the aforementioned on-rails type of set-up. Sonic will always 
 run forward so while it may seem natural to want to press up on the sideways wiimote, you dont 
 have to do it. Its not like you really press any other direction in Sonic games. Steering is handled 
 by tilting the wiimote left and right and you jump with the 2 button and brake with the 1 button. 
 Shaking the wiimote forward while airborne initiates the homing attack which now has a lock-on 
 feature so you dont launch yourself into a pit accidentally, though it can still happen if you 
 dont time it right. The controls defiantly feel awkward at first, but once you get used to them 
 they actually feel quite perfect. Though Charge jumping and utilizing the slide will probably be 
 the biggest obstacle in nailing the control and the backwards movement and precision control could 
 have been worked a little better. A neat new feature in the game is also the ability to upgrade 
 Sonics abilities. As you gain levels and earn more skill points you can add more abilities that 
 range to better control and starting with bonus rings, to reducing damage and increasing your top 
 speed.
  The game is very nice graphically. The heat effects of Evil Foundry are nice, and the entire environment 
 of Levitated Ruin is beautiful (especially when you Speed Break during the Gargoyle sections) , 
 and the final level is just pretty. The game uses cg cut scenes for some of the major events and 
 uses a storybook like comic to tell the majority of the story which fits the games theme well. 
 There is no way to control the camera in the game, though it does a pretty good job of being where 
 it needs to be. There were only a few moments where it gets a little jumpy, but overall it works.
 
  As for the sound department, this game uses more of an Arabian tune which suits the game well. 
 The games theme song however will play during every menu in adventure mode and gets kind of annoying, 
 since its the traditional Sonic rock anthem and actually sounds out of place. Though the biggest 
 complaint about the sound is the voice acting, in which it is best to switch to Japanese, since 
 the villain will actually sound menacing. Finally the game gives you plenty to do. Aside from being 
 pretty tough for the first few tries and having a nice story length, it also gives you a lot of 
 missions to complete and in each mission there are 3 medals you can earn, which in turn unlock 
 things ranging from illustrations to bgm tracks and developer info. All of this AND the game has 
 a party mode which consist of a good amount of fun minigames for up to four players. When it comes 
 down to it, Sonic and the Secret Rings is far, FAR better than the very disappointing Sonic the 
 Hedgehog. It recaptures the sense of speed that made Sonic games fun and at the same time gives 
 you a different way to play. Add into the mix the various minigames in party mode and you have 
 yourself a really fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caossbr
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 15, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  the sonic's new wii game has a great history in Arabian tales and a great game, but with much bugs 
 like the others sonic games. the wiimote tilting is frustanting and disappointing for an sonic game, and 
 is better the old way to control him: the control stick. It is bad that Sega dont make it with nunchuk, classic 
 ou gamecube controller. sometimes sonic don't turn or you have to first stop to you jump. So rent 
 it first.
  Its hard because sometimes you have to stop, or rapidly evade some obstacle and objects, and i dont 
 think that the wiimote can do this, he only can tilted max 90&deg; and it can be irritating. Haha, i 
 didn't expected that secret rings has an good multiplayer like mario party, so its sometimes more 
 coll than the single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmish82
Rating: 7
Date: May 14, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  After a string of terrible Sonic games, here's one that's finally worth playing. The first major 
 change is that Sonic is on a pretty linear path and is constantly moving forward. This eliminates 
 the problems of the past few Sonic games where it was entirely too easy to fall of a cliff. While 
 the new control scheme works well overall, it does have it's downsides. The first is that the constant 
 forward motion can be very frustrating when you're near an edge and want to prepare for a jump 
 as you can accidentally move forward over the edge. I would much rather have had Sonic remain stationary 
 instead of constantly moving forward as it would have been much easier from a control standpoint. 
 One of the best aspects of the game are the visuals and the sense of speed. The graphics simply 
 look incredible. They did a great job with the coloring, textures, and images in the game. The 
 sense of speed you feel is also a huge step forward for the series as well.
  
  Now, on to the worst part of the game. The voice-acting. The acting in the story portions of the 
 game is absolutely horrendous. It was so unbearable that I couldn't even watch the story sequences 
 and would fast-forward through them.
  
  Overall, Sonic is definitely worth checking out. It has a good amount of replay value to it as 
 there is a lot to unlock. Some areas can be frustratingly annoying to get past but otherwise it's 
 a pretty good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awa123456789_12
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 11, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  For Secret Rings, Sega wanted to make sonic like it was in th 90's (the days of AWSOME Sonic gaming) . 
 But for a 3d game, the movements in this game are more 2d, and the wiimote also differs the game 
 from that. The gameplay is intresting; you must tilt the wiimote to contol sonic, who is the only 
 playable character unfortunatly. There are unique lvls, and bosses after a few, which involve the 
 games unique gameplay. Since I got my PS3, i have grown to enjoy 720p+ games, but the Wii, aas 
 we all know, does not support HD. They are well done for SD, and the artwork is decent, but far 
 from outstanding. In my opinion, the music in this game gets very repetitive over time (esp. the 
 main theme!) , and is not very original, balnd, if you will. But some of the music is creative, 
 but doesn't quite match prevous sonic game's music ( live or learn, Open your Heart, His World, 
 etc...) . I did in ejoy the sound effects, and the voice. Many people would not enjoy this game, 
 so I think it is worth renting first. Many mini-games are fun, in the multiplayer party mode, but 
 many also get boring after the second time you play them, and many people may not like using the 
 wiimote to play. (I like a nice c -stick) This game is decently fun, but I find it is not one of 
 the better 3-D sonic games. It's lack of adventure mode (exploring) and a single playable character 
 weaken this games rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexx88
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 6, 2007 6:37 am PT
Review:  Pros-Some awesome graphics to grace the Wii especially when it comes to the Water and Lighting 
 effects. Controls and Gameplay, when it comes to controls it takes a little while to get used to 
 but, when you do it becomes very fun, fast, and furious. Controls are mapped out like this.. -In 
 sideways style- move the Wii-mote left and right to move sonic well left and right. The 2 button 
 is used to jump and after u jump when it locks on you thrust the Wii-mote forward for a homing 
 attack. The Skill rings are a big focus of the game giving sonic new skills that have never been 
 introduced in a sonic game, most of which involving fire, or makes Sonic move faster, slower (o. o) 
 gain experience points faster and more. There is also a 4 player part mode now, Sonic usually a 
 2 player affair, as for the 4 player multiplayer its actually worth playing! It is a compilation 
 of minigames probably about 50 and you unlock more by beating more missions in adventure mode.
 
  
  Cons- Not many but, Controls could be very frustrating if you don't have patience. Some Skills 
 when it comes down to it are totally useless. The Party mode is Fun and all and it will keep you 
 busy but, its not Mario Party lol.
  
  Value- Gold-Excellent with minior issues
  
  Tilt-Awesome balance of a game. Although Single player is more fun than multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicphc
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 3, 2007 11:12 pm PT
Review:  After the commonly-considered-a-disaster that was Sonic the Hedgehog for the Xbox 360 and PS3, 
 Sonic and the Secret rings seemed to be the poor, anthropomorphic mammal's last chance at life 
 as a major videogame icon. Fortunately, Sonic Team did an excellent job with the game, and while 
 it does have a few minor problems that keep it back, the game still shines.
  
  Gameplay: 9&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;-The gameplay in Sonic and the Secret Rings (abbreviated SSR 
 from here on) is phenomenal. Sonic steers by tilting the wii remote, jumps with the 2 button, breaks 
 with the 1 button, and performs his homing attack by thrusting the wii remote forward. 98% of the 
 time this works great. 1% of the time you'll try and brake with 2 and slide off the edge and then 
 1% of the time the game doesn't recognize the homing attack until it's too late. Still, the recognition 
 issue is very rare. Almost all of the errors made in the game will be yours.
  
  Sonic blasts about the courses, and almost everything relies on fast-paced, precision timing. Around 
 the third world you receive the ability to blast ahead or slow time using the soul gauge by pushing 
 up or down on the D-pad. These two abilities are fun, but aren't practical, as the controls in 
 Speed Break are nonexistent for the most part and are much too sluggish during Time Break, so Speed 
 Break will kill you and Time Break will waste your soul gauge. Due to the fact that the game has 
 you constantly moving forward, a few Sonic conventions had to be broken, namely the ring system. 
 When you take damage it is a simple -20. There's no ring scatter, they just disappear, which is 
 fine since it's pretty easy to get hit and trying to chase after rings would seriously slow the 
 game down. Actually, it leads to some interesting setups in the RPG system.
  
  Yes, RPG system. Playing the game earns you exp which earns you abilities and skill points, which 
 work much like Sonic Battle. Different abilities require different amounts of SP, and which abilities 
 you equip can be mission critical. Some special sub abilities cost less SP, but have a catch, such 
 as doubling your ring losses. It is probably the most interesting aspect the game has to offer 
 and works very well. If you like going fast, you can spend your points on wind powers. If you like 
 more exp and more soul gauge, you can spend your points on soul powers. Your Sonic, your way, finally.
 
  
  All of this praise aside, the game has one really glaring flaw, and that is that the first 30 minutes 
 are terrible. The tutorial is 8 separate levels, all dull and tedious, that each teach 1 aspect. 
 Why didn't they just make 1 giant tutorial is beyond me. Once you get past that you can expect 
 to have a blast. Oh, and there's one more thing: this game is HARD, but it knows that and puts 
 no limit on your lives. Dying just moves you backwards a small bit and costs you a good portion 
 of the exp (points) you've earned thus far on the level. So you can try as much as you'd like with 
 no Game Over, but you get less exp. It's fair enough, but sometimes the extreme difficulty on small 
 sections can take 12 or so retries, which can be obnoxious. As a side note, the biggest complaint 
 seems to be the inability to see enemies when backing up, but there's an attack ability for dealing 
 with that.
  
  The multiplayer is decent. The minigames themselves are fun for the most part. A few of the better 
 ones include pulling a carpet from underneath a jumping genie, whacking stakes, and chopping wood. 
 There are a few boring ones, like battle fishing, and one or twp that don't really work, like the 
 canoe race and canoe coin collecting. It's an amusing diversion for the most part, but not for 
 everyone. If you enjoyed Sonic Shuffle, you'll enjoy the mini-games and game board modes found 
 here.
  
  Graphics: 10&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;-The graphics are beautiful. I really don't know what else 
 to say. Now that the camera's not an issue, there's nothing to complain about. The water effects... 
 the motion blur... everything is impressive. Best looking Sonic game yet. Nothing more to say.
 
  
  Sound: 5&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;-Im going to be nice with my text and call it Sonic R to avoid 
 cursing. I guess its love it or hate it, and I hate it. The music is intense I guess, but since 
 all but one song has lyrics to it, it gets really obnoxious really fast. Seriously, with the entire 
 lyrics to a song being: Dino. Its a jungle. Dino. Its a jungle. Wicked Wild! it gets tiring 
 fast. Some people may like it maybe. Fortunately, its not loud enough to be intrusive and you 
 will learn to ignore it with due time. The music to the mini-games, on the other hand, decent. 
 Some of the louder sound effects get edgy because theyre just trying to do more than the system 
 supports volume wise, and the most intense minigame music is used in the least intensive minigames, 
 but at least the minigame music is actually the sort of music you might find yourself listening 
 to by itself because you enjoy it. On a side note, not ALL of the levels are loaded with awful, 
 angsty rock. Theres one good exception. Skeleton Dome has awesome music. Thats the only exception. 
 I will also say that the music would be significantly better on its own without the lyrics. However, 
 the lyrics KILL it.
  
  Value:  plenty to unlock, to be sure, and the more you play the 
 more fun the game is. It's too bad that the actual single player campaign only takes 10 hours to 
 complete all the way through to the final boss. Also, unlocking most of the things can be extremely 
 difficult due to the very fast times required just to earn a silver medal. If you want a gold, 
 you'll have to be perfect and then some. A ton of the unlockables are pointless sketches, but there 
 are a few in there that are really worth finding. Still, the game's a ton of fun. You definitely 
 get what you pay for, and Sonic fan will get more.
  
  Tilt: 10&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;-I am 100% hooked, completely unable to put this game down until 
 forced to by that thing called responsibility that rears its ugly head every now and then.
  
  Final Score:  is the best 3D Sonic game yet. Some may complain 
 that its on rails, making it more of a 2D game, but I dont care. Its a formula that works brilliantly. 
 Take a bit more attention to level design and remote sensitivity, especially in some of the minigames, 
 and combine it with a complete musical overhaul and I have no doubt the sequel to this game (which 
 I have no doubt is coming) will finally be the perfect Sonic experience. Until then, it is definitely 
 the finest Sonic on the market today. If you have a wii, there is no reason this game shouldnt 
 be your next purchase for your console should you be a Sonic fan. If you dont have a wii, this 
 is quite a compelling reason to get one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildcat2000
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 3, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Yes I would say so.
  
  Sonic and the Secret Rings finally brings what we've wanted from a Sonic game for years. One you 
 only play as Sonic and two the gameplay is pure speed.
  
  Control wise, of course we all know Sonic is always moving and you tilt the Wii-mote left and right 
 to move Sonic. Aside from that you press the 2 button to jump and quickly thrust the Wii-mote forward 
 to do a homing attack or to just launch yourself forward to get over a gap. You can also stop with 
 the 1 button if you feel your moving to fast and need to slow down, which sometimes you do.
  
  The levels are broken up into missions, there are 13 seprate missions for each world which have 
 you doing differnt things like beating the level in a certain amount of time, collecting 99 rings 
 or killing a certain number of enemies. The best example is like what Sonic Adv. 2 did, where you 
 could go back and do the next objective for a level like beating it on hard mode or finding the 
 lost chao. The only differnce now is that you must complete some of those missions before being 
 able to move on.
  
  New to the Sonic series is theres a bit of RPG flare.... the more missions you do and the better 
 you get the more EXP points you get and the more special abilaties are unlocked. Before you enter 
 a level/mission your given the choice to equip differnt abilaties that you feel will best help 
 you in that specific mission. Depending on what level of rank you are depends on how many special 
 abilaties you can attach to yourself.... but you can always attach alot so its not too strict.
 
  
  The levels themselves are fun and well designed and gameplay always has a wonderful sense of speed.
 
  
  Now, on to multiplayer, its great.... seriously there are so many differnt unique mini-games that 
 they could have made a Sonic Shuffle 2 .Also all the mini-games make great use of the Wii-mote.... like 
 having you row a boat, catching things in a net, shooting a  
 shooting and just alot of cool things.
  
  Sound is good, basicly what youd expect, but what I like is the music, it truly has the BEST soundtrack 
 since Sonic Adventure.
  
  OH you'll be glad to know there is NO glitches or cheap deaths due to bad cameras or anything else.... it 
 all runs smoothly.
  
  Bottom line.... if your a Sonic fan, buy it..... if your a casual fan buy it.
  
  It finally seems 
 like Sonic is getting back on top..... if Sega keeps this up Sonic has a bright future ahead of 
 him. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WGR_Darrin
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 28, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  I don't like games that make me feel stupid, and at times, Sonic and the Secret Rings for the Wii 
 made me feel like I have two brain cells who are fighting it out over who will be supreme while 
 I bathe in a tub of mayonnaise while playing with a wet toaster. Needless to say, I didn't enjoy 
 the game as much as I could/should have. The premise seems simple enough: holding the Wiimote horizontally 
 (like an NES controller) , you tilt left and right while Sonic does all the running. You steer him, 
 attack enemies, and on occasion, flap your arms like a damn idiot while trying to get a pot with 
 wings to elevate. The game is one of the better-looking Wii games out there, as SEGA definitely 
 took its time with this one, unlike other companies that have so far been putting PS2 port after 
 PS2 port on the 'Cube's successor without bothering to update them at all.
  
  The audio suffers from the same Sonic pitfall we've seen since the Dreamcast: cheesy rock music. 
 Oh dear God, make it stop. The in-stage music is fine, but most levels are so short that you'll 
 hear the rock music again in no time. The game is set up in very tiny chapters, usually giving 
 you one set objective for completion. You'll replay the same scenes over and over, trying to meet 
 new requirements. Here's where the mediocre score comes in: some of these missions are easy and 
 fun, while others are irresponsibly hard. One level's mission: don't defeat any enemies. That'd 
 be easy on a 2D Sonic, or even a 3D one, but in a game with on-rails action where you can't avoid 
 enemies (or even jump over them sometimes) , not so much. You will die in this game, and you will 
 die a lot. New gamers should not apply here, as the difficulty curve is very steep. Controls are 
 fine, except for such levels. You'll need to back up a lot... have fun with that. Aiming Sonic 
 at an enemy, then actually using the homing attack? Satisfying... when it works. Sega could've 
 spent a little more time in this department, because when it works, it's awesome, and when it doesn't, 
 it sucks more than an Oreck vacuum. Sonic and the Secret Rings is an example of what can work and 
 what cannot on the Wii, all in one package. The game provides many fun moments, and could be a 
 good addition to your library, if you can get past the insanely difficult parts. I really tried 
 hard to like this game, and while it's still better than the dismal Sonic the Hedgehog on the PS3 
 and Xbox 360, it seems Sonic's not quite there yet on his trek to retake his throne among the best 
 franchises in gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 26, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Ever since Sonic left the hollows of his Dreamcast family, his life has been in sort of a downward 
 spiral motion. Each game failed to live up to the Sonic name, creating what seemed to be many lackluster 
 additions to the series that redefined the platforming genre. With the high-def era of next gen 
 gaming taking full swing, and the PS3 and 360 focusing more on raw power than gameplay, it is key 
 to note that Sonics adventure on the Wii impressively speeds past the competition in full strides, 
 and delivers one of the most satisfying and innovative Sonic titles in years.
  
  Sonics latest journey starts out with the blue hedgehog receiving a message from a genie, set 
 in the pages of the classic book Arabian Nights. The genie warns Sonic of an evil genie named Erazor 
 Djinn, who has set his sights on the secret rings scattered throughout the pages of the book in 
 hopes of reclaiming them all and freeing himself from the story. Once free, he will terrorize Sonics 
 land and become the most powerful genie in the world. Naturally, Sonic takes to the challenge quickly 
 and soon finds himself racing to retrieve the rings before Erazor. Each scene is shown in a type 
 of story-book cinema, complete with pictures and some nifty looking animations, in which Sonic 
 (who sounds incredibly un-cool for such a neat-looking character) travels through the pages of 
 Arabian Nights to find the rings and stop Erazor.
  
  While the Sonic games never really had a strong central story point, Secret Rings does a good job 
 of focusing on the key traits of the Arabian Nights folklore, recreating some of the most inspiring 
 and well-thought out levels in the series history. While most levels are based off classic tales 
 from the book, Sonic will also travel to different levels, complete with pirate ships, prehistoric 
 animals, and desert ruins. Each level has its own unique look and feel, with some parts of the 
 levels available for some clever platforming maneuvers, such as wall hugging to avoid dangerous 
 traps and rail grinding over dangerous chasms. Despite these new additions, the same core gameplay 
 is still well in tact, with Sonic running at an increasingly fast pace throughout. With things 
 going at such a frantic pace all the time, its reassuring to note that there are no framerate 
 problems or any occurrence of slowdown at allsomething that plagued the other next-gen versions. 
 Each level looks fantastic, brimming with their own special array of enemies and surroundings, 
 while still making them look both realistic and artistic.
  
  The sense of speed has always been the key aspect of the Sonic series and the Secret Rings is no 
 exception. While the other games had players moving Sonic at their own free will, the Wii version 
 moves Sonic automatically on a pre-determined set course throughout each level. If Sonic happens 
 to stop or slow down over an obstacle, he will gradually start running at full speed once again 
 automatically. The lack of control over Sonic may be intimidating for some players, but with the 
 new control structure it actually works extremely well in most places.
  
  First and foremost, players must hold the Wii remote horizontally, with the D pad resting in your 
 left or right hand. As Sonic runs along his path you simply tilt the controller in the direction 
 you wish to turn. The turning maneuver is really only used to dodge obstacles or to collect rings 
 or other powerups since you dont really have any control over where to run. Along the way Sonic 
 will earn the ability to learn new moves that will help him make his marathons a lot easier to 
 maintain. By using the 2 button, players can launch Sonic into the air to hurdle over obstacles. 
 Reminiscent of his Dreamcast days, once in the air Sonic can lock onto targets and with a quick 
 thrust of the controller, players can send him flying into the enemy. This attack can be chained 
 together in succession to create combos or even be used to cross different areas. If for whatever 
 reason you feel like Sonic is getting too out of control, you can simply press the 1 button to 
 slow him down, which is also useful for clearing bigger hurdles which require more precision. The 
 basics on the controls are quite simple to manage, and once you learn how to jump and move your 
 way from side to side, you will no doubt master the mechanics of the game. There are times when 
 things get a little too hectic and it is hard to maintain flow of the game and move the controller 
 at all the right moments, which make some levels feel like a pain due to constant do-overs (caused 
 by not being able to jump over something) or endless jumbles with obstacles that always seem to 
 slow you down.
  
  In any case, Sonic is much better equipped this time around as he now can improve his skills to 
 help him in later levels. Since Sonic travels to seven different worlds, after every level he will 
 be awarded points depending on how well he performed. Players may than use those points to upgrade 
 skills and ultimately learn new abilities, such as ring multipliers or double jumping. While these 
 new abilities add some form of depth and customization to the Sonic series, they dont serve any 
 real purpose simply because you can easily finish the game without ever equipping a skill.
  
  The single player campaign should take you about 10 or so hours to complete, depending on how 
 much time and effort you are actually willing to spend learning new skills and upgrading. While 
 the single player is relatively short, the multiplayer has potential in keeping fans hooked long 
 after the campaign is complete. Similar to other party-game titles, players can compete in a series 
 of minigames, varying from ordinary fishing to juggling fruit, canoeing, and swimming. All of the 
 40+ games are very creative and use the Wii remote in interesting ways, but like all the other 
 games they get repetitive much too quickly.
  
  Sonic and the Secret Rings is a welcome addition to a series that has long been caught in a struggle 
 for quite some time. The controls will no doubt intrigue fans of the series, and Wii owners who 
 are hoping to pick up a new game in hopes of trying something both innovative and fun should look 
 no further. The classic sensation of speed, coupled with some of the best locations, makes this 
 Sonic game one of the best additions to the series in a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burgeg
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 24, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  I grew up on sonic the hedgehog on the megadrive back in the day. I was addicted to the fast paced 
 platforming fun of those games and I still play them to this day. Sonic heroes was a great game 
 for me and reminded me of that fast paced action and really did stay true to the series roots. 
 I thought it was a terrific 3D platformer and was severely underrated. To see Sonic and the secret 
 rings praised as the greatest 3D sonic ever I was extremely pleased and expected an even better 
 game. How wrong I was.
  
  I like 3D platformers. Sonic Heroes was that, and I enjoyed it. Sonic and the secret rings is not. 
 Its an on rails game where you tilt the remote to move left and right and press a button to jump. 
 Sure, all you really did in 2D sonics was run and jump, but even in those games you had more freedom 
 and control. At least you could slow down, turn around and at least there were genuine platforming 
 moments in there. SATSR is just contsantly moving forward with virtually no platforming. The closest 
 thing to platforming is having to press the jump button. There's no dodging enemy attacks, there's 
 no dodging traps. Moving the wii remote forward attacks enemies and theres nothing more to it. 
 You dont really have to strategise against different enemies or anything. Boss fights aren't ass 
 good as heroes and aren't as good as classic sonics. Its not a very long game, but no sonic has 
 ever been. Getting all medals and firesouls adds replay value but even that doesn't add alot. Heroes 
 was the same really. I dont really like the new story. It just didn't feel like a sonic game at 
 all. Not only was the gameplay nothing like a sonic game, but it had a totally different story 
 as well. The only thing related to sonic is sonic. Not having robotnik/eggman as the main enemy 
 is just not sonic the hedgehog. In fact he wasn't even an enemy. Granted it was an okay game and 
 is quite fun. Its not a 3D platformer and its not a sonic game. Its a short game and will last 
 about 10 hours for the average player. Controls are frustrating at times but most of the time they 
 work well. If you like on rails games this is for you. If you liked previous 3D sonics and 3D platformers 
 in general you may be disappointed. Rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Codgin
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 23, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  Sonic The Hedgehog was always and still is a favourite of mine, but the 3D games he stars in have 
 been one let down after another, so much so I have nearly given up all hope in my childhood favourite. 
 But seeing the previews of this games, gave me a glimpse of hope, so I gave it a whirl
  
  Story. Personally the story isnt great, I won't metion it cause I have no intrest in it, what was 
 so wrong with Robotnik trying to destroy the world with a giant death egg? Oh how I miss those 
 simple but brillant times...
  
  Gameplay. Ok, I will give the game this, it kicks the butt out of all the 3d Sonic games currently, 
 but its still awkard. The game is 3d 2d, basically a 3d enviroment you have limited movement in. 
 I loved this style in games like Crash Bandicoot and hell it would have worked with this if it 
 wasn't for the fact Sonic is constanly running forward. Exploration is limited and controls can 
 be sometimes be frustrating to the point you've shoved the wii remote in places that arent pleasent. 
 Sure its unquie but unquie is not enough when the platform Sonic once sat on was so high. The game 
 revolves around doing missions, which feels lame considering most games missions are just extras 
 tagged onto levels when you've completed them. Multiplayer is ok, the majority of the games are 
 fun for a small period of time and all make good use of the Wii Remote
  
  Will It Last? If your like me, you'll get fed up and give up, if not maybe a few days to a couple 
 of weeks
  
  Graphics. Graphics are good, some momments in levels are nicely animated and vast in colour, the 
 levels are of a nice varation
  
  Sounds. Better than other 3D Sonics, but the chachrters have those cheesey voices that make you 
 cringe at the thought your playing the game. Some songs are ok
  
  Conculison. A small step towards to progress, but one that will soon be fogorten, not recomended 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_critic001
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 22, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  so, sonic and the secret rings start out kinda blaghh with some boring cinematics which are kinda 
 no offense gay but as the plot progresses it gets much better as far as fun. wut ur probably sayin 
 is that sonic is a kids game it cant be fun but if u think this way than ur missing out. any way 
 the gameplay of this game can be very very addictive, u might end up failing the level a few times 
 but then u beat and then u want to tackle the next level. now the wii controller is turned sideways 
 in this game like in excite truck and other wii racing games and the controlls for this game work 
 really good. the graphics suprisingly arent bad in this game but becuase of the controls it might 
 look kinda glitchy once or twice. but the overalll graphics could be better. on the other side 
 other than adventure you got the party mode which when playing one player can get addictive, and 
 when u got friends over u wont be switchin games for a will. now the story of this game is this 
 genie named shara wakes up sonic and tells him about a genies tryin to take over a world storybook 
 called the arabian nights. there are several worlds with rings that somehow unlock a door to stopping 
 it. if this makes no sense to u rent the game and figure it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero_snake99
Rating: 5.1
Date: Apr 22, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  I really don't want to waste my time writing this review the same way I wasted it (along with my 
 brain cells and sanity) while playing Sonic and the Secret Rings. Like many other Wii games, this 
 one came with the first level presented as a tutorial based map, letting you get used to all the 
 actions and controls. This tutorial alone will give you the ill feeling in your stomach urging 
 you to put the Wii-mote down.
  Since I really want to end this review so badly, because thinking about it makes me hurt inside. 
 Don't play it. Don't by it. Don't rent it. The path they give you is not even worth having to control. 
 They might as well made a side-scroller with 3D objects. It would have been a lot better. I guarantee 
 it. Play one of the older Sonic games instead. I beg you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neosalmon
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 26, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings is a game that is extremely fun to play, even though it can be extremely 
 frustrating and hard at times. Secret Rings does have some bad parts to it, but it's good parts, 
 in my opinion, far outway the bad. It's a great effort for only being in the works half as long 
 as the Sonic Next Gen game.
  
  First, the bad. Sonic's adventure on the Wii does have some major flaws. First off, the fact that 
 he's on rails all of the time can be annoying when you get stuck somewhere. The controls make it 
 difficult to go backwards, and the Camera will never move, except when the levels require it. the 
 Camera in this game is also on rails of sorts, as it has specificly timed changes throughout the 
 level. This makes planning what you must do and avoiding obstacles much more difficult, and adds 
 an unnecessary level of difficulty. The on rails system is extremely annoying. While it is really 
 cool to see Sonic go so fast, at times I feel like I'm just a spectator, and that I'm not actually 
 playing the game. Another problem about this game is the controls. While basic enough to understand, 
 they are extremely precise and sensitive, and it might take you half of the main storyline to figure 
 out how they work and get everything perfect.
  The final complaint I have about this game is its story line. Don't get me wrong, I think the idea 
 for it was wonderful and very creative, but it was way too short. I was able to finish the story 
 in less than 10 hours. I really would have liked the story to be longer. Now, we go to the good. 
 The graphics and sound are probably the best thing about this game. The game is extremely beautiful, 
 with amazing backgrounds and great cut-scenes and character models. The songs, despite what most 
 people think, is extremely catchy. It reminds me of the Mighty Morphing Power Ranges songs, which 
 were awesome, by the way. You'll find the songs getting stuck in your head for days afterwards. 
 The controls in this game, while far from perfect, are still pretty good. The abilities really 
 do help with controlling Sonic, and you'll definately notice a difference when you have the stronger 
 abilities equipped. That brings me to the abilities. These were a great idea. It gives a feeling 
 of being more involved with Sonic, and gives the game a lot of replay value. Speaking of replay 
 value, that brings me to the difficulty level. The game is extremely difficult at times, and has 
 crazy difficulty spikes at times. Some levels you'll be able to breeze through, but some (and I'm 
 not even kidding) might take you literally 20 TRIES to finish the level. I tried to finish a Perfect 
 mission for the Evil foundry, and I had to restart literally 40 times before I gave up on the level. 
 But you'll realize that you're actually trying 20-40 times to finish the same level, because you're 
 HAVING FUN. Crazy thought, eh? Having fun on a Sonic Game.
  
  The Multiplayer games are also fun. I do have to admit, the controls on some of them are really 
 akward, such as the rowing game. But there are some really fun ones, like the Fruit Scewer and 
 Wood Chopping games. Final Words:
  This game definately deserves to be rented. If you're a Sonic fan and you have a Wii, then you 
 MUST get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RidersDX
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong. I used to love almost all the 3D Sonic games. I was a fan-boy that time. But 
 now I kinda agree with alot of reviewers. So, this is my true and hopefully forever opinion on 
 Sonic's Debut on the Wii. Sonic and the Secret Rings.
  
  Remember the good old Sonic games? Like Sonic Heroes and Sonic Adventure and 2? They had an excellent 
 sense of speed. But the other types of gameplay in the adventure series brought it down so that 
 leaves heroes as the best 3D Sonic game thus far. With Sonic Riders second place. Sonic Riders, 
 get ready to lose your second place. Cause Sonic's most recent game is taking over.
  
  The story is very ancient like many recent Sonic games like Sonic's debut game on the 360 and PS3. 
 Which didn't do so well. Also, Sonic's new game that was just announced, Sonic Rush Adventure, 
 sounds to have an ancient feel too. So, I guess we're gonna live with ancient themed stories for 
 awhile. Here's a little history about this game. Sonic The Hedgehog for the 360 and PS3 was to 
 also be on Nintendo's Wii console. But when Sonic Team took a look at the Wii's hardware, it was 
 so different then the 360 and PS3's hardware so they made Sonic and the Secret Rings exclusively 
 for the Wii. Good thing too. Sonic The Hedgehog would've been even more horrible on the Wii. It 
 was originally gonna be named Sonic Wild Fire but because of how dimwitted Sonic Team are, they 
 changed the great name into the lame and long name Sonic and the Secret Rings.
  
  The control scheme makes the game with one of the most simple control scheme. You basically tilt 
 the Wii Remote left and right to control where Sonic runs. Sonic runs automatically so that really 
 adds some challenge to the game. You press the 2 button to jump and press the 1 button to slow 
 down. The push the Wii-Remote forward after jumping to perform a homing attack when near an enemy. 
 The tilt the Wii-Remote backwards to move backwards. Nice control scheme really.
  
  The gameplay doesn't feel like a Sonic game so this is really just a spin-off. So, you can still 
 expect Sonic Team to mess up a Adventure Sonic game like the Adventure series and Sonic The Hedgehog 
 06. Don't think this means Sonic Team will make good games in the future. There's a pretty good 
 possibility of a bad Sonic game in the future unfortunately. The unique control scheme makes the 
 gameplay really fun. The unique control scheme makes a nice and challenging game. Homing Attack 
 is probably one of the most funnest things to do in the adventure mode. Doing it really shows off 
 how fun the Wii can be. Sonic may go slow when you first play but you can get upgrades to equip 
 onto him to make him even faster. Which then makes it feel like you're going fast. Adventure mode 
 can make you feel like you're Sonic sometimes and overall, it's pretty fun. But sometimes, the 
 difficulty in some missions can be very ridiculous. You may be able to go very fast but you may 
 have impossible to dodge obstacles in the way.
  
  Party Mode is the multiplayer mode for the game. Sonic Team decided to make a party mode since 
 party games tend to be fun on the Wii. So yeah, they decided to. And man, is it sure fun! The mini 
 games make great use of the Wii-Remote and make a very fun experience. There are many modes to 
 choose and a total of 40 mini games to play. You'll have to unlock some of them in Adventure Mode 
 though. There are a total of eight characters to play. And you have to unlock four of them in Adventure 
 Mode. So you have to play Adventure Mode alot to experience everything from this mode. The mini 
 games are overall fun, but sometimes you may have a hard time playing a game cause the control 
 won't respond properly. But overall, Party Mode is good. And in my opinion, better then the Adventure 
 Mode.
  
  Graphics really show off the Wii's graphical power. Sonic looks real good. Better then his Next-Gen 
 look in my opinion. The environments in Adventure Mode are also very good. The water in Sand Oasis 
 looks very real. Alot like real water. Party Mode's graphics are pretty good too. The character 
 models aren't as good as Sonic's adventure mode model but they are still very good. Environments 
 are very very good too.
  
  Sound well, that's a different story. The voices are your hated 4KidsTV voices. Sonic's voice has 
 improved fortunately. The voice of Sonic tries to put alot of emotion in Sonic like the old Sonic 
 voicer did. But Sonic sounds more whimper then ever. What did I do?! Shara! Lend me your power! 
 Wow! Thanks! He puts a little too much emotion. The other voice actors stayed the same. The background 
 music is okay. Alot of the tracks are pretty good. Even though the annoying lyrics are there they 
 still sound surprisingly good. The Party Mode music is good too. Nothing Sonic like but is still 
 great to listen too.
  
  There are eight worlds each with missions to complete to move on with the story. You also obtain 
 experience points after completing missions that help you get skills to put on the ring Sonic is 
 wearing. You have to put on certain skills to make certain missions easier. Even if you've completed 
 the final boss, you still have got alot to do like completing all the missions, getting gold on 
 all the missions, unlocking all the things in the Special Book and getting all the fire souls to 
 unlock all the things in Party Mode. Overall, this game will keep you busy for a real long time.
 
  
  So, does Sonic's most recent game help re-define the series? Yep. The game is better then most 
 recent Sonic games so this is a nice start to get Sonic back to the top after the humiliating Sonic 
 The Hedgehog. Let's hope Sonic Team keeps this up and make all future Sonic games better and better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exiss
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 21, 2008 11:58 pm PT
Review:  GAME START
  
  Sonic and the Secret Rings is the iconic blue hedgehog's latest rise from the grave on the Nintendo 
 Wii, and boy, now that I've played the game, I wish he'd waited longer to show himself. Even at 
 the risk of public flogging by fans, I'll say that I haven't really enjoyed a Sonic game since 
 the old 2D side-scrolling days. With the exception of Sonic Adventure 2, which has managed to remain 
 neutral in my experiences with it, I take no sides on that one. I didn't like Sonic Adventure 1, 
 and those weird sports spin-offs haven't appealed to me either. I've barely played Sonic Heroes 
 and have no opinion on it. After watching a fair amount of hype rise out of this new game for Nintendo's 
 little system that could I had hoped that Sega might have pulled off a miracle: a "good" Sonic 
 the Hedgehog game. I admit that I was caught up in the fan excitement surrounding this game and 
 prepared a predisposition to love this game because it was Sonic and I root for underdogs.
  
  GRAPHICS
  "He's so colorful and sweet that you could just eat him"
  
  That tagline aside, 
 the graphics are actually hard to describe. It was like something caught between the translation 
 from Gamecube to Next-Gen which I have dubbed the word CubeGen to define.
  CubeGen (n.) 1) A merging of Nintendo Gamecube and Nintendo Wii graphics engines; a slick and colorful 
 presentation that serves the absentminded fantasies of youth while avoiding the forwarding of technology. 
 2) A clever marketing ploy while the dev-kits are still being handed out.
  
  Everything is colorful and semi-eye-catching to a degree, but nothing is otherwise extraordinary. 
 The use of tones and shading was good. Sonic is sleek and pleasant to look at. Overall, graphics 
 are good but nothing special.
  
  SOUND
  "I could just strangle him"
  
  Voice Acting/ FX
  
  Okay, this is a Sonic game. I've reached the point where I am no longer 
 surprised by ridiculously kiddy dialogue. But, come ON! The characters sounds like they've been 
 drenched in syrup! Even Eggman as the king character sounds sweeter than usual, is that even possible? 
 Definitely geared towards the younger audience: BIG time. I don't recall many sound effects except 
 for the chopping, whoosh sound that Sonic makes when he jumps and the tinkle of rings when you 
 collect them. Music I've gotten to expect nondescript rock and roll music from Sonic too, but at 
 least back in the days of Sonic Adventure 1 and 2 it was actually engaging and sounded pretty good 
 at times. The Arabian Nights theme going with this Sonic might as well be drowned out by your iPod 
 while you play a favorite song: it's that forgettable. I almost wish they'd just recycled the music 
 from the old games, I think I would enjoy that more.
  
  STORY
  "The author of this review refuses to discuss the plot of SatSR"
  
  Sonic and the Secret Rings 
 Abridged Storyline
  
  Narrator: "Sonic was sleeping. He was tired after reading so many pages out of his copy of 1001 
 Arabian NightsBut something amazing was about to happen"
  *FLASH!*
  Sonic: "Huh? Wha?-"
  ???:"Save me! I'm a princess from the book you're reading!"
  Sonic: "Whoa, 
 what? What do you want me to do?"
  ???: "Put this ring on your finger!"
  Sonic: "Why-"
  ???: "JUST DO IT!!"
  *Sonic puts ring on*
  ???: "YesYES. Now we are bound eternally as master 
 and slave through the magic of this ring! We shall save my world now, spiky blue speed demon, we 
 will save the Arabian Nights!"
  Sonic: "Wait, what?"
  ???: "INTO THE PORTAL, SLAVE!... ah, erMaster we must hurry!" *Sonic is sucked into the portal*
 
  
  And there's something about an evil genie erasing the Arabian Nights from their pages, Sonic being 
 shot with an arrow that slowly counts down to his death, all of the supporting characters from 
 the Sonic franchise becoming Arabian Nights people and a ton of filler that has nothing to do with 
 the story. The above is just more or less how I interpreted the story.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  "Like a runaway ambulance"
  
  I have two massive gripes about this game. The first is obvious 
 and the second is more critical of overall game design.
  
  RANT I: These Controls Suck
  
  I really think that it's funny how many users on Gamespot have argued that the controls are 
 good in this game, because they're either: a) more patient than me, who offered up four hours worth 
 of time to play this game, or b) Love Sonic too much to diss him. I hate the controls in this game. 
 I hate how Sonic takes his sweet time moving from left to right on the screen no matter how much 
 I lean/how sharply I lean/how quickly I lean in a direction. I hate how Sonic slows down to a snail's 
 pace whenever he attempts and/or completes a jump. I hate how you barely ever get Sonic to move 
 quickly because something requires you to attack it (which requires jumping) or hop over it. I 
 hate how there are giant jumps in this game that require you to attack multiple enemies in sequence 
 to get across and how certain enemies disappear before you can attack them, or the game doesn't 
 react to the thrusting of the Wiimote and Sonic simply falls to his death instead of attacking. 
 I hate how I replaced the batteries in my Wiimote (even though they read as full power) with new 
 ones, adjusted the position of the sensor bar multiple times, stood up, sat down, and tried different 
 postures hoping that the game would react only to discover that IT WASN'T the Wii that failed to 
 react, it was just the game's programming.
  
  RANT II: Side-Quests, Oh My GOD
  
  Why the hell are there so MANY pointless side-quests in this game? Why is there practically NO 
 story because every world is inflated with only ONE story-based mission and about EIGHT random 
 missions where I have to:
  A) Destroy X number of enemies
  B) Destroy X number of [insert world themed item]
  C) Get 100-200 rings
  D) Beat the level 
 in X amount of time
  E) [insert your own side-quest here!]
  
  Now, the pointlessness of the side-quests aren't what bothers me in this game. It's that face that 
 there are far too many of them and that they just ARE NOT FUN. Why couldn't I have a story of decent 
 length? Why couldn't the side-quests be less generic? Why couldn't this game be better? Sonic's 
 had such a dismal record since those golden years, why hasn't he gotten back on his feet by now?
 
  
  VALUE
  "Glutton for punishment..."
  
  If you want to complete all of those repetitive side-missions then more power to you, more mileage 
 out of the game that way. You can also earn medals by completing a level faster and otherwise outdoing 
 your previous runs through the game.
  
  ENDGAME
  
  On the basis that the "Tilt" part of the reviewer's score adds/detracts .3 points for every mark 
 up or down, I've decided that a more accurate way to score a game is to mark them with a perfect 
 10 Tilt so that the game automatically receives a starting score of 3.7 even if every other Attribute 
 is marked with a 1. I think it provides a better measure of the game itself and drops personal 
 opinion a bit.
  
  I'm sure that a ton of people have had their faith restored in the Sonic franchise thanks to this 
 game, but I haven't. I'm still waiting for the big miracle, Sega, I'll keep rooting for the underdog.
 
  
  6.0 out of 10 ( (FAIR) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apoena
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 17, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  The Graphics are Great! The Soundtrack, Amazing, Stupendous!!! But the game play!!! Earck!!! After 
 almost ten hours (mine and my girlfriend's together in ten days) , I still cant have fun playing 
 this game. At least the adventure mode. I cant figure out how to play like it is described in the 
 manual or in the tutorial...
  The other part of the game (mini-games) are fun and all, but does not have the same graphic quality 
 as the adventure mode.
  It is frustrating trying to go left and when you most need, Sonic goes right. I don't recommend 
 buying like I did. Try just rent it if you can! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cursedspirit33
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 16, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  I can say in all honesty that this is the best 3D sonic game. Of course, that's like saying I'm 
 the valedictorian if a community college (i'm not really, in case no one caught the sarcasm) . The 
 Secret Rings (first off, Wildfire was such a better title) is a bit awkward at first, because getting 
 used to the controls takes some time (Unless you've played Excite Truck, which is good practice 
 at holding the wiimote horizontally) . Now the plot here is worse than in a Jean Claude Van Damne 
 film. Sonic is doing nothing, than a genie from an Arabian Nights book pops out and tells him he's 
 the chosen blue hedgehog. All that's missing is a magic carpet. Oh wait, they're in the game too. 
 The game itself is surprisingly good. Some levels are going to take multiple tries to beat, but 
 atleast the controls are responsive. The Graphics are great for the Wii. The sound... typical 3D 
 Sonic. Saturday cartoon-esque voice acting, and lame rock songs from bads no one cares about. Oh 
 well. Mute the volume. Still, if you are a fan of Sonic, give this one a look. Don't expect a huge 
 combat, but a baby step going the right way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 17, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  The story starts as Sonic reads Arabian Nights. We discover that an evil Genie, Erazor Djinn, is 
 erasing chapters of the book. In fact, parts of it near the end are blank. Sonic is compelled to 
 help by retrieving the missing pages, and away he goes into the Arabian Nights world. But Erazor 
 shoots Sonic with an enchanted arrow and forces him to fetch the Seven Rings scattered through 
 the worlds, and only then will he remove the curse.
  
  The game begins with a tutorial where you learn how to control Sonic. To move left and right, you 
 tilt the Wii remote. To perform Sonic's homing attack, you thrust the remote forward. To break 
 and reverse, you pull the controller back. It feels really weird at first and takes quite a bit 
 to get used to, timing the movements with Sonic but it becomes much better and more natural as 
 you go along. Except when trying to move backwards, which is really frustrating.
  
  Some of the levels offer challenges such as finishing without collecting any rings, without dying 
 or without killing any enemies. While most challenges are optional, the few that aren't can be 
 extremely challenging. However, completing them successfully rewards you with bonus content.
 
  
  Instead of using free-roaming environments, Sonic and the Secret Rings plays somewhat as if Sonic 
 were on tracks, always moving forward. You have to dodge obstacles that sometimes blend in with 
 the scenery and collect all the rings.
  
  A bit like an RPG, you get a character advancement system. You can develop Sonic's abilities by 
 using skill points to purchase them, making him faster, stronger and having a few extra moves. 
 Some of the missions can't be completed unless you already possess certain skills, and before you 
 begin a stage, you have to pick which skills to equip . There are 100-something skills in total, 
 including the ability to backflip, lose less rings when hit, increased attack range, the addition 
 of a Soul Gauge. The Soul Gauge allows Sonic to use a Speed Break or a Time Break when full. Time 
 Break slows down time, making it easier to navigate around obstacles, but also reveals hidden objects 
 that's can't be seen otherwise. Speed Break makes Sonic partially invincible while boosting his 
 speed. While in use, these moves will gradually deplete the Soul Gauge. To refill it, you must 
 collect Pearls.
  
  While Sonic is the only playable character in the story mode, you will encounter familiar faces 
 in the game, only they've been cast for other parts: Eggman plays King Shahryar, Tails plays Ali 
 Baba and Knuckles appears as Sindbad.
  
  Aside from the story mode, there is also a party mode. In a way, you could compare it to the Mario 
 Party games, where four players can compete in a series of mini-games. Here you can pick any of 
 the available characters from the Sonic world, such as Tails, Amy and Knuckles. You can either 
 play single mini-games or compete in a tournament. More mini-games will be unlocked as you progress 
 through the adventure and collect Fire Souls, and they range from canoeing to catching fruit, playing 
 violin, racing in mine carts and other fun little activities. While the party mode isn't original, 
 it's a welcome addition and a good change of pace from the adventure.
  
  Graphically, the game is very stable. Everything is very colorful, with rich and detailed environments. 
 The water and particle effects are just beautiful. Each of the seven worlds has its own distinct 
 look: deserts in Sand Oasis, pre-historic settings in Dinosaur Jungle, hovering runways in the 
 Levitating Ruins, factory-like stage in the Evil Foundry. The initial CG sequence is impressive, 
 but the ones that follow are presented as pages of a book, which was a little disappointing. The 
 game offers a great sense of speed and fluid frame rate throughout, and the camera angles seemed 
 to have improved compared to previous titles, even if they don't work so well when you try to move 
 Sonic backwards. The soundtrack is excellent, with catchy tunes reminiscent of 80's rock and metal. 
 The voice acting isn't as impressive, and the whole dialog seems to have been written with children 
 in mind.
  
  Overall, Sonic and the Secret Rings offers the classic rollercoaster ride type of gameplay that 
 we know from other Sonic games, but with a new twist on controls. But it's exactly that twist on 
 the controls that will make you feel really excited in one moment and extremely frustrated in the 
 next.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screenshots at:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=sonicsecretrings 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dj-Dark-1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 16, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  This Game is Amazin in my opinion, But one simple problem its too fast. The Graphics and Gameplay 
 are the best in sonic history so far. But i can't enjoy them the same when there just flying passed 
 as sonic is too fast for the screen and i lose the chance to see some amazin graphics. Otherwise 
 the game is amazin im still playing it, its got a lot of time spending ability to keep me busy. 
 Theres is enough levels and enough different variations of the levels its all different. I Really 
 enjoy this game and i would give it a very good rating . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harleyrulesall
Rating: 2.9
Date: Apr 15, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game would be great. I thought it would be revolutionary. But it wasn't. In fact 
 it was so terrible that i couldn't even stand to finish it. My biggest complaint is the controls. 
 The controls are completely unnecessary. It's horrible. It's unresponsive and it would be best 
 to use the analog stick. Another big complaint is how the whole game is on rails. You have no freedom 
 to explore. I feel like a caged animal when i play this game. The graphics are good. The sound 
 is ok. In short i wouldn't reccomend this game to anyone. Sonic has failed and this time he should 
 stay down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMKFan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 15, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  It's nice to see a Sonic game for the Wii. It's fun using the Wiimote to control Sonic. You hold 
 it sideways like with some other Wii games.
  
  I don't pay attention to storylines too much, but apparently, Sonic is trapped in some book about 
 an evil genie named Erazor Djinn. Some characters from the series, such as Tails, Knuckles and 
 Eggman also plays a role of a different character in the book.
  
  You gain skill levels in this game too. The higher your skill level the more stuff you'll unlock. 
 You unlock stuff like more mini-games for Party Mode, more characters for Party Mode and more things 
 to add to your customizable Skill Ring. That only adds the fun to the game. You play the levels 
 in this game more than once. Each time you play them, there's a different goal like having to kill 
 a certain amount of enemies, just racing through the level within a certain amount of time or just 
 fighting against a boss. One thing you might notice is sometimes, it feels like the game is playing 
 for you though. The Story Mode could have had some unlockable characters too, since you could only 
 use Sonic.
  
  The Party Mode is also cool. It's a bit like the Mario Party series. The Wiimote is very useful 
 for the mini-games. Each Party stage works different ways too. Overall, the Party Mode is fun.
 
  
  Many people consider this to be the best 3D Sonic game yet and I'd probably agree with that. This 
 is a fast and fun game. If you're looking for a platformer for the Wii, look no further than Sonic 
 and The Secret Rings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nate64
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 13, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  like most people i've been waiting for a good 3-d sonic game for a long time especially after the 
 highly anticipated sonic the hedgehog for the ps3 and xbox 360 was such a big disappointment. so 
 when i saw this game and i heard some good things about it i was very excited. so i went out and 
 bought it. i put it into the wii and the first thing you hear is some terrible rock music, but 
 i've come to expect things like this from sonic games. i started the story mode and the story itself 
 was really stupid right off the bat and so was the voice acting. once i was able to start playing 
 it was really interesting way to play sonic and it was really fun. you tilt the wii remotes sides' 
 down to move sonic across the screen which is alot of what you do because you don't make him move 
 forward he does that on his own and the camera also is set and you can't control it. but don't 
 get me wrong it is pretty good especially taking into account how much trouble cameras have given 
 sonic games in the past. sometimes the camera can be really annoying though. the controls can be 
 quite bothersome at times. like jumping for instance you hold down the two button to charge up 
 your jump because if you don't charge it then you don't really jump very high which will be annoying. 
 and the way that you attack enemies is pretty decent, while your in the air you will automatically 
 lock-on to enemies and then you shake the wii remote up and down, but sometimes you have to shake 
 it pretty hard to get him to do it. also one of the most annoying of all things is how you have 
 to back up. which you will have to do. to back up you have to pull the wii remote back towards 
 your body but again you will have to exaggerate the motion or it won't work which is aggravating 
 because you still have to tilt the controller and press buttons while doing this to jump and to 
 just move. like i said the story is really pretty bad, it is about how sonic gets sucked into a 
 story book of the Arabian Nights but a genie called the erazor djinn is out to erase all of the 
 stories. when you try to stop him he shoots a flaming arrow into your chest and you will die if 
 you don't get him all of the seven world rings. you can form your own opinion on the story but 
 i thought that it was really bad. also all the voice acting is pretty terrible which goes along 
 nicely with the cut scenes reminiscent of red steel's comic book like still images that talk. every 
 once in a while which is hardly ever there is a full 3-D cut scene that can look really good. on 
 that note the graphics in this game are actually really good for a wii game one of the best i've 
 seen to this point. it gives you a great sense of speed when you are actually moving quickly which 
 isn't always that often cause whenever you get hit you stop and it's slow moving to get going fast 
 again. the levels are actually usually pretty fun and interesting but overall there aren't that 
 many levels which is pretty disappointing. there are about seven different worlds you can go to 
 throughout the game and within there is about 20 levels in each world but they are mostly just 
 the same level played over and over again with different meaningless objectives not to mention 
 that whenever you get to a new world then you basically just do all the same objectives but in 
 a new level and it gets really repetitive and boring pretty quickly. you also have to beat levels 
 to unlock new ones and to unlock some levels you have to get a higher ranking medals in it which 
 can really hard and sometimes you won't even unlock most of the levels before moving on to the 
 next world. but just beating the game is pretty easy, but it doesn't really have enough appeal 
 to make you want to get all the way through it though. lastly the minigames, i have to talk about 
 this. like a lot of wii games they think that they have to put in a whole bunch of minigames using 
 the controller for really no reason and sega is no exception. there are 40 minigames here and they 
 basically all suck, they use the controller in really meaningless ways for the most part. you can 
 unlock minigames from the main story which are part of the 40 games. you can also unlock new characters 
 and multiplayer modes but you really have no way of knowing how to unlock them you kind of just 
 unlock them after beating a random level. despite all of it's flaws it is a pretty decent game 
 all in all. if your a huge sonic fan then you will still probably enjoy this game but if not i 
 really don't suggest it there plenty of other wii games that are way better and have better miningames 
 also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fang_lord
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  Well, i bought Sonic and the secret rings a few days ago, and the momemt the title screen loaded (takes 
 about 5 seconds from when you start the game) i thought wow nice sound track lol :D Although you 
 will die LOADS of times in this game, and it is insnely frustrating, 9 times out of 10 you can 
 go off and do other missions and come back to it later, this keeps the action fast and furious 
 and you cool and... errrmm... not furious??? (lol) GAMEPLAY:
  
  The gameplay in SatSR is imense! You start off slow... but still fast, and a few EXP lvls and missions 
 later you will be going at breakneck speeds and destroying anything that gets in your way! Boss 
 battles are short but sweet. Combat, although limited to a few attacks is totally kick ass and 
 works very well with the game. The game at times doesnt feel like a adventure/rpg game, but more 
 of a racer, as the camera angles and speed of the game is just cool. The soul Gauge is also a nice 
 touch, you can slow down time to get past fast moving traps ect. or go even faster using the super 
 cool SPEED BREAK! it just launches you around the track ULTRA FAST! but unfortunatly, is only useful 
 if theres few obsticals and enemies to stop you (and it helps with the last boss *cough*) There 
 is also LOADS of variety in missions, like in one you could be racing, another you have to kill 
 a certain amount of enemies, or forced to kill none or you fail, ect. People also say that sonics 
 moving forward ALL THE TIME is a problem... i havent yet had to move back (apart from in lost prophercy) 
 you just need to pay attention to you suroundings and let the speed take you. Party mode is fun 
 for a while (and in my opinion better than Super Monkey Ball Banana Blitz's party mode) the main 
 game is SO much better, yes there is 40 games, but not really all that great, some are great, others 
 are terrible, but still, a nice little extra.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  The graphics are very very nice. The lighting, effects, character models, and boss's all look pretty 
 stunning. Sonic isnt supposed to be a GoW looking game (a realistic hedgehog that is blue? a bit 
 retarded if you ask me) , but its graphical style certainly help this sonic game with its almost 
 cartoony (but not quite) graphics. I have basically finished the game (the last boss after the last 
 boss... wtf? lol) and i have not yet seen a single graphical glich.
  Party mode graphics look rather bad compared to the single player, but there bare able.
  
  
 SOUND:
  
  Ok... the sound is a hit or miss. The voice acting works, but isnt REALLY all that good. The music 
 is pretty good, i personally like the title screen music, but the music in general is good, and 
 goes with what ever level you are playing. The effects of the BANGS the WHOOSH the ZOOOOOOOOOM 
 ect. are good. OVERALL:
  
  SatSR is definatly one of the best, if not the best 3D sonic game out on the market, it captures 
 everything sonic is about, speed, 
  
  Although its music may be great for some and terrible for others (all about opinion) this game is 
 a must buy for any one who wants a super fast action adventure race'ish rpg platforming game (lol 
 how many of those do you see everyday lol) Sonic fans can finally let out a sigh of relief, sega 
 have produced a lot of 3D sonic crap over the years, but this one is definatly one of there sucesses 
 *cough* unlike Sonic The Hedgehog on the PS3 and X Box 360 which sucks *cough* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: susanooifirt
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 12, 2007 5:07 am PT
Review:  Sonic fans have been dissapointed at the ps3 and xbox 360 next gen sonic aswell as brought new 
 fans but this is a game that focuses on the old stuff, the speed. some parts get veeery fast which 
 sorta makes you feel like your really contoling sonic through insanely fast levels. If you have 
 this game but only for a day or even an hour you might be thinking this game isnt that fast well 
 the problem is is that the game dosent get very fun until you upgrade sonic until he actually lives 
 up to his crazy speed sadly. But he still will go fast early in game just not as fast as he is able. there 
 some point were you need to be very very precise on what your doing but the controls arent precise 
 enough but dont let that get you down most of the time there good enough. You control sonic with 
 the wii remote like steering a car which might not be everybody's cup of tea because the levels 
 dont have much freedom like sonic adventure or the other 3d sonic games, but this game wasent ever 
 suppose to be like them anyway and you dont actually care when you play the game because the game 
 maybe on a set track but controlling sonic is great in it and its not as simple as running down 
 a set track not at all. This game has tons of stuff to unlock in it like minigames (very similar 
 to Mario Party) missions bgms artwork movies ect. This game will keep you going for a long time, but 
 some missions arent very fun sadly, just a hassle some of them really
  If you love the freedom of the sonic games you might like this but if your respect for sonic has 
 been lost at least give this a try, you might love sonic again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ebi_Furya
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  I love the original Sonic games for their speed and was thrilled to learn the speed was coming 
 back on the Wii. Sonic &amp; the Secret Rings is an intriguing and difficult game that, while fun, 
 has its flaws.
  
  * Story
  I think the story is crap. Youre pulled into a book (Arabian Nights) and are asked to save the 
 Arabian world by a Genie. You then travel the world, Sonic style, and obtain the 7 Secret Rings. 
 Not much to it, but the story is definitely not the games strong point.
  
  * Graphics
  The graphics are astounding. The textures of the worlds and characters are wonderful. The speed 
 youre running through the levels doesnt slow down the system or fuzz out the details at all. 
 Sonic has always had a cartoony look to the levels, but this one moves away from that to realistic 
 and semi-believable levels.
  
  * Sound
  The sound also isnt the best. The music can get very redundant and sometimes annoying, but its 
 still not too bad. What really hurts the game is the voice acting. The main Sonic Characters are 
 all voiced very well, but the new characters from the Arabian Nights are downright terrible.
  
  * Gameplay
  The gameplay is very simple. Sonic is running on a predetermined path and you 
 have to navigate him around or over obstacles that arise. You hold the Wiimote sideways and tilt 
 it right or left to move Sonic right or left. The 2 button is jump and the 1 button is stop. If 
 you tilt the Wiimote back, you will walk backwards. When you jump, a lock-on indicator will appear 
 on enemies and some obstacles and you can thrust the Wiimote forward to dash-attack them. Those 
 are your basic controls. They work very well 90% of the time, but there are instances where it 
 seems unresponsive and difficult to play (and no, its not my batteries) As you progress, you 
 obtain new abilities which can be equipped to Sonic. Most of them dont seem to help out much 
 if at all. Others are quite useful such as extended lock-on distance.
  
  There is also multiplayer which uses the Wiimote in unique ways and are interesting. It reminds 
 me of Mario Party.
  
  * Overall
  Sonic and the Secret Rings is a fun game, there is no doubt about that. If you can look past the 
 terrible voice acting and the sometimes frustrating controls, plus the high level of difficulty 
 for some of the missions, then you should enjoy the game. The game is rated E for everyone, but 
 younger players may find it increasingly difficult if their reaction time is not high enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LavisFiend
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 10, 2007 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 9/10
  The graphics are good, VERY good, and I was quite impressed with the sheer gorgeous looks of some 
 of the levels (ESPECIALLY the later ones) Sonic really pushes the wii for these graphics, just 
 to give us a taste of what it can do, and though it's not no gears of war, the graphics are preety 
 enough to please the eye and even give you some wow moments. They deliver. However, though the 
 levels are great, the enemies could have looked a bit better. but it's ok, as your going to fast 
 to notice sometimes.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  It's a sonic game, so expect to hear things breaking, rails scraping, and rings making bell noises 
 when you pick them up. in short, the basic sound effects are there, and all sound perfect. The 
 soundtrack is a hit or miss for people. Again, a Sonic game, so expect to hear techno/rock. I actually 
 liked the songs on this one though, but my opinion on me liking the songs or not dosen't go into 
 the score at all. I judge it by how it fits in the game.
  
  And regardless if your a fan of rock and or techno, the music fits very nicely, and really helps 
 get the adrenaline going. Fast Hectic levels has fast music, much more tame levels have a tamer 
 music composition and so on and so forth. The game is in an arabian setting, and incredibly, all 
 the tracks do have a sort of of arabian feel to it, and really help the score and help you get 
 in the mood to play the level.
  
  Story: 7/10
  Without spoiling anything, the story in secret rings is basically about the stories of the arabian 
 nights and an evil force at work to erase the stories. THAT's the gist of it, but theres more to 
 it, and it actually is quite satisfying and not as dull and lifeless as the other sonic games stories 
 were. Something I was a fan of on this one is how the story is presented. The story is presented 
 through pages, sort of like a comic book, and is colored to make it look like the pages are ancient, 
 as if it were pages of a tale long ago. The story is basic save the world, kill the badguy formula, 
 but offers a few twists within (always welcome) and excellent story progression.
  
  Controls: 7/10
  Every game has a con, and the achilles heel for secret rings is the controls. 
 Now they are not HORRIBLE by no means, but some of the functions are either really tough to do 
 in the heat of the moment, or quite simple reading issues. Basically, you don't have to worry about 
 making sonic run, he has that covered. YOUR goal is to steer him away from trouble and get through 
 the enviroment via jumping, dashing, attacking etc. sounds simple enough right? well...
  
  to steer, you just tilt, thats it. tilt to the left to get him to run left, and vice versa. there 
 is really no problems in this department.
  
  you jump with the 2 button, but you super jump with it as well. This may seem kind of awkward, 
 and it is, but it is workable. For instance, in order to do a small jump, you (lightly) press the 
 2 button, and in order to do a super jump you press and hold 2 to build up power and leap in the 
 air that way. Here is where the problems begin...
  
  In some enviroments, you will be forced with lots of obstacles, this is normal, and to be expected, 
 however... some of the obstacles call for small jumps, then big jumps. well, it's no problem to 
 get past the obstacles... until you realize that you REALLY have to hit two lightly just to get 
 a small enough jump, if you press it and hold it any longer than it can register, you will do a 
 super jump, and unfortunatly for you... you just overjumped the platform you were trying to get 
 on to.
  
  to brake, you press and hold 1, simple enough.
  
  Now this is when it gets REALLY bad. Grinding...
  
  Grinding is REALLY agitating and can almost 
 be labeled as broken, had it not been saved by the fact you can do it once you figure out the trick 
 to do so. To grind, you just jump on the rail, and sonic begins to grind. in order to speed up, 
 you have to tap 2, but for some reason, 7 times out of ten, your button press will register as 
 a short jump, and you will leap right off of it. Switching rails is dang near impossible too.
 
  
  BASICALLY, in order to rail jump, you have to gently tilt to the side you want to leap to, hold 
 one, and thrust to that side, but for some UNHOLY reason, you will rarely actually connect with 
 the rail because sonic will end up either falling short, overjumping, or just not jumping towards 
 it at all. THANKFULLY only a few levels actually require you to grind, so it dosen't really pose 
 much of a problem, but for the levels that require it the whole way, you are in for one heck of 
 a blow up.
  
  The great thing about the cons of the controls though are that, sure there are problems in the 
 controls.... but you can easily counter this by compensating before hand, and reducing the problems 
 tremendously.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  The meat of the game. Let me just say this; take the thoughts about all these other 3d sonics and 
 toss them away, they were not real sonic games, nor will they ever be, and they were wrecks. Now 
 brace yourself, cause finally, after all these years, we finally got a sonic game. What I am basically 
 saying is this; no other game besides the original genesis sonics and this one ever gave the sense 
 of speed which MADE a sonic game, it is after all, what sonic does, run, speed, the core essence, 
 just as a mario formula isn't complete without jumping and pounding some foes in the dirt.
  
  What Secret Rings does is not only bring back that speed sensation that we experienced during 
 the old sonics, but REINVENTS it through the wii, and of course, 3D. Lets break this down further 
 though;
  
  Let me first start this off with the exclamation of NO MORE CAMERA PROBLEMS! Thats right, the fatal 
 error that plagued the other 3d sonics is gone now as you don't have to worry about controlling 
 the camera ever again, the game worries about that and handles it for you, and RARELY did I ever 
 see a camera hiccup (this ONLY happened when I overdid a jump and leaped behind a portal somehow, 
 forcing the camera to try to go through the portal)
  
  No more running and stopping! Basically, remember how in the other 3d sonics where you hardly did 
 any running at all? you basically ran on a platform, stopped, angled your way to the spring or 
 rocket or whatever, and continued the process? On Secret Rings, Sonic is CONSTANTLY running, always 
 running forward, going faster and faster, and all YOU do is guide him through the level, just like 
 the sonic games of old.
  
  Missions are comprised of basic objectives, objectives ranging from simple things like reach the 
 goal to collect rings or special story objectives. They may seem kind of straight forward, and 
 they are, but it's perfectly alright, as it is a great way to break the monotous complete mission 
 by reaching goal, it's all varied.
  
  There are 8 stages, and within each stages are substages. Basic way that works is that first level 
 of that stage is a full runthrough of an entire level. the levels inbetween the first and last 
 sublevel are the special objectives and collect missions I was talking about. The last sublevel 
 is a boss. However, during these sublevels, the level changes completly. in one sublevel, you could 
 be isolated in one area of the main level, and play there. Thats how all the sublevels work basically 
 though, they all take place within the same stage, but in different isolated areas, altered somewhat 
 to give them a newer feel.
  
  The game play is very solid, as I said before, you just guide sonic through a level, and because 
 sonic is usually going very fast, the adrenaline starts to pump through them as you never know 
 whats going to happen next around that next corner, and its a very satisfying expereince to expereince 
 that. Very new to the sonic scene is the ability to level up. Your probably scratching your head 
 to the idea of RPG elements in a sonic game, but don't be alarmed, they don't take away from the 
 experience, the elements actually are very well done and very much welcome. Basically you level 
 up by completing a level, and when you level up, you get skills, you equip these skills to better 
 sonics abilities, and make getting through levels easier.
  
  Replayability 8/10
  This game offers alot, and by alot, I mean alot. Over 300+ unlockables, each very challenging to 
 unlock as you usually have to score at LEAST a silver medal to unlock some of the things (a challenge 
 within itself) story mode takes about 10 hours, and unlocked everything and leveling to the max 
 would take I dunno, 30-40 hours extra, maybe even more. so it offers a great deal.
  
  Buy or Rent? I am going to have to say buy. This is what the wii users have been needing due to 
 the drought of good wii titles. If your a sonic fan, you should definatly buy it, if you are not, 
 and have never been, I will say rent it, I think this can sway your decision.
  
  CONCLUSION: Sonic and the Secret Rings is a godsend. A very challenging title that not only reinvents 
 the 3D sonic games, but gives us the sonic we know and love, back. With its beatiful graphics, 
 amazing sound, and really intense gameplay, this game is definatly worth the praise I have gave 
 it.
  
  POINT CRUNCHDOWN:
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Story: 7/10
  Controls: 7/10
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Replayability 8/10
  
  TOTAL:48/60=0.8
  
  Sonic and 
 the Secret Rings scores an 8! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eagles931
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 10, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Well after the disappointing Sonic the Hedgehog for the other nexgen consoles, i thought there 
 was no hope for the little hedgehog. But I was wrong. I was shocked by a overall good sonic game. 
 The game went back to its roots with an all sonic adventure. the sonic characters seemed to of 
 sneaked in with its wonky voice overs, but besides that its a pretty good game. Your on an adventure 
 in the arabian nights book to stop an evil Genie. Fire souls are very well hidden and it can become 
 a hassle. 100 party games add to the replay value and after a year or 2, you will want to come 
 back on a wild adventure with sonic. Sega bounces nack with game, and with Mario and Sonic at the 
 olympic games coming up in Winter, things are starting to look better for Sega 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inteligencia
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2007 12:32 am PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings for the Wii is just one of those games that become a mark in video game 
 history, because for the first time a 3D Sonic is fun and as cool graphics.
  Lets start with the graphics, cool water and weather effects, cool in-side level and some bad out-side 
 levels.
  The game play is kind of weird at the beginning because to play this game you'll only need the 
 wii remote (to be more precise 5 wii remote buttons) but as soon as you start to handle the controls 
 the game becomes fun and sometimes frustrating because of the camera.
  Sound i love the musics and they're all very different in style but the game only have 8 main songs 
 or so (if you add the extras they're like 20 or 30) .
  The life time of this game is kind of weak if you just want to finish the game (i finished it in 
 10 hours) but if you like to unlock every single bit of every game this is your game! Sonic has 
 tons and tons of extra stuff to unlock, things like soundtracks, videos, art design, etc.
  If you saw videos and you think the game is good buy it because you'll like the game even more 
 after playing it...
  Playing is Believing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarherolover
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 8, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  This is a great sonic game. The previous entrys were good, but this is one of sonic's best. It 
 feels old-school sonic, fast. Also, the graphics are great. Some times, the controls can be really 
 frustrating, causing you to throw your wii remote at the TV. Although this can change the gameplay 
 expirience, it does not change the entire thing. Also, the soundtrack is sorta lame. The only song 
 to really like is seven rings in hand. Good song. But, on the overall, sonics wii-debut is a solid 
 entry in toi the sonic franchise and is worth playing. Although, if you think recent sonic titles 
 have sucked, this is a rental for starters. Still, worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naruto10000
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 8, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  This game was hard for me to review. While the story and game play was fun, it was hard to get 
 used to. The levels are quite challenging, and the bosses are a bit of a challenge on your first 
 few times battling them. Though, in a way, it makes you feel more in the game. Fire souls also 
 make the game challenging, not to forget the medals. Multiplayer is like an updated version of 
 Sonic Shuffle. While Shuffle didn't get good reviews for single player from my friends and I, multiplayer 
 was great. Same story with multiplayer. I'd suggest renting it first, then buy it later 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Symphonia_Zelos
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Sonic and the secret rings is an all out fun game even in multiplayer. The gameplay is amazing 
 i mean how many games are out there that are fast paced and fun and you get to use your hands constantly? 
 hmm i don't think so. the story may be a little dorky but....................... it is still a 
 good sonic game. If only Sega had let you play as other characters in the action stages. But the 
 game is a good game if you like fast paced gaming and funky story lines. Genies? who ever thought 
 Sega would use genies? but the genies were cool..: ) Such as , Shahra, Erazor Djinn, Krima Djinn, 
 Uhu. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manicfoot
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 5, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Sonic has fallen on hard times as of late. The only decent game starring the 90's Mascot appearing 
 in the few years being the sometimes-fun Sonic Rush on the DS. While Sonic and the Secret Rings 
 is a good effort, it still suffers from terrible design flaws and controls that aren't as tight 
 as they should be. I'm sure you've read how the controls work, so I won't bother going into a lot 
 of detail about that, but I will tell you the problems I've encountered. Sometimes, there is a 
 bit of a delay with turning and it does become very annoying after a while. Also, on the pointless 
 missions where you have to do a level without killing an enemy, you'll find Sonic doing a homing 
 attack on an enemy without you thrusting the Wiimote forwards like you're meant to. The basic idea 
 for the controls are good, but they really need to be tweaked so they fit just a little better. 
 My main complaint about this game is the mission system. While you do still get zones , they are 
 cut up into a dozen or so missions, where you'll be replaying the same area, but with a different 
 objective in mind. This makes the game feel really scattered and small. You can do some of these 
 objectives in less than a minute, so it makes it feel less like a real Sonic game. It doesn't help 
 that some of the objectives are simply stupid (finish with no rings, finish without killing enemies 
 etc) and you do the same objectives in each zone most of the time. It soon becomes tedious and 
 seldom suprises. What I would like instead is to have zones and acts like in the old game. Real, 
 long 5 min levels. The game does touch on this occasionally and you get a glimmer of the old school 
 fun on the reach the goal objectives, but they are unfortunately few and far between. From a presentation 
 standpoint, Sonic and the Secret Rings is solid on nearly every level. The menus are basic, but 
 have a nice style and the loading times are very fast. The game really shines graphically, and 
 the great thing is you get the feeling that the Wii is playing this game in its sleep. It is very 
 encouraging and the graphics are certainly a lot more advanced than the GameCube and shows off 
 some nice environmental effects as well as some awesome motion blur when you go really fast. However, 
 musically the game is hit and miss. The main theme song is simply annoying, though there are a 
 few good tracks during the game, but nothing amazing. Music is a big part of Sonic for me and I 
 was quite disappointed, but it won't be a big deal for most people. In short, Sonic and the Secret 
 Rings is far from abysmal, but it definately does need work. It's a frustrating game and occasionally 
 gives you a gllimpse of what the game could have been, but thanks to questionable design choices 
 and sometimes clunky controls, those experiences are few and far between. If I were you, I'd give 
 this one a rental first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ianmacfarlane14
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, it's like the old sonic games, you run and run and keep running until you hit something, 
 then next time through you know it's there so you can keep going. Also the game starts out slow, 
 so does sonic, but as you get power-ups to make you faster and easier to control, the game really 
 picks up. Although with that said, one problem I find with this game is that it's just 7 levels 
 and a tutorial world. You go through the level once, then go through it under certain mission requirements, 
 some of which are really annoying (finish with 0 rings, search for something and take it somewhere 
 then get another running in circles, that kind of thing) and you can get though the story mode 
 with some sloppy jumping skills and trail and error, but getting gold in all the missions and finding 
 'fire souls' get really hard. Also the story is kind of weird, but other than that it's around 
 one of the best the Wii has so far, which may not be saying much as of April 05, 2007. Party games 
 are pretty fun, (violin mini games sucks) and fun to unlock more games and characters for multiplayer. 
 Another thing, the music, made by Crush 40 just like the other games... but not their best songs 
 I must say. All in all though it's pretty fun, if you really want another Wii game pick it up, 
 or rent it if youre uncertain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_link_777
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 5, 2007 4:04 am PT
Review:  Good: Fast speed, mario-party style multiplayer supporting 4 player, tonnes of unlockable content, 
 customisable character, on the rails style gameplay, variety off missions, over 100 missions.
 
  
  Bad: Camera shows in front of sonic when reversing, some missions are too hard (don't kill any 
 enemies) , forced fights slow and stop your speed, too few opportunities to change your path, only 
 7or 8 levels.
  
  REVIEW: While it is the best sonic too date it was still rushed to the Wii and some anoying bugs 
 stop it from being a must have . The game has an on the rails styled movement and you move left 
 to right and jump over obstacles. Other than the controlls it is a standard sonic game, the multiplayer 
 is exceptionaly fun, but alas no 1 on 1 races through the levels, instead there is mario party 
 styled mini games. The story won't be earning any medals as it is quite dull and you will mostly 
 just skip through the cutscenes (other than the intro and ending which are cool CG style) . On each 
 level you can earn a Bronze, Silver or Gold medal depending on how fast you complete them, medals 
 can unlock specials such as History of Sonic , character art, level art, Music, screen captures 
 and more. You can also find fire emblems on each mission (anywhere from 0 to 5 on each mission) 
 the emblems unlock multiplayer minigames and characters. Over all Sonic and the Secret Rings is 
 a good game but it's strange gameplay means you may want to rent it beforehand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicX100
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 4, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  There a thing we all think when someone say a word there always a word that come up in your head. Like 
 Sports-we think of foorball or B-ball, Myspace-A place for friends, TV-Shows, and Sonic-He a fast 
 living mofo!
  And that come to this game review for Sonic and the Secret Rings for the Wii!
  OK we all know 
 that the last 3 to 4 Sonic game just pain SUCK!
  And I'm a BIG time Sonic fan and it sid seeing Sonic becomeing this way!
  But Sonic and the Secret 
 Rings does being Sonic Back to it 16-Bit root!
  Which is cool because Sonic is a fast living mofo it this game!
  But anyway the story is about 
 Sonic going into the 1,001 Arabian Nights book to save the the books world! And it pretty good story 
 line. And the Arabian Night look good because Sonic and the Secret Rings is one of the best looking 
 game for the Wii!
  So right now ok but how do you play it?
  Well you hold the Wii Remote sideway and tilt it left to right to move Sonic. But it can get hard 
 sometime. Because one it not a free moving world like in the Sonic Adventure game, it more like a 
 16-bit game, and the lock-on is diffcult to lock-on and by the time you got it you may pass your 
 target, and some on the misson are hard as a **** of them you might just thow the Wii remote at 
 the TV.
  But you do not need to beat all the misson to beat the game. Which is good.
  Next is the Mulitplayer game the game have. And it ok at best some of them are great but some of 
 them just suck. But it is fun to bring your friends over to play. Bit it ok at best!
  So, Overall Sonic and the Secret Rings...
  Gameplay is great because it goes back to it 16-bit 
 roots
  Graphics is beautiful one of the BEST LOOKING WII GAMES YET!
  Mulitplayer is ok with some good and so bad games
  Overall, Sonic and the Secret Rings is a MUST-BUY 
 for someone who need a a great Wii game.
  I give Sonic and the Secret Rings a 4 out of 5
  Sonic is back and he better then ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Misfit1119
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 31, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  One has to wonder what exactly is going on at the Sonic Team headquarters when they are working 
 on a new game. They stopped making good games after they released Sonic and Knuckles and even that 
 was debatable. Since then, they have been pouring out Sonic games for years, but all of them feel 
 like bargain bin games at best. Sonic and the Secret Rings is nowhere near as bad as these other 
 entries but it falls flat in far too many areas to be anything other than a mediocre game.
  
  Let me just get one thing out of the way right now. The storyline in this game is as bland 
 and boring as they come. Sonic is dragged into the story Arabian Nights by a genie to stop the 
 Erazor Djinn from erasing the book. Get it Erazor eraser its meant to be clever. This story may 
 keep children interested, but anyone over the age of fourteen is going to be put off by the static 
 cutscenes, lame story and annoying voice acting. But being honest, when Sonic was at his best the 
 storyline to his games was always threadbare at best. Skipping cutscenes as much as I can, the 
 storyline was merely a means to keep Sonic going through the levels.
  
  What this game tries to do is to let you experience what Sonic does best and that is extreme speed. 
 This is incredibly well done and it works to draw you into the game. You will gunshot across a 
 level, dodging pillars that are erupting from the sand, leaping through the air and dashing into 
 an enemy to destroy them before completing the level in record time. The sense of going at a rapid 
 speed is insane in this game, outpacing many of the racers on the market now.
  
  Controls for this game are nice and simple. You hold the Wii controller sideways, with the directional 
 pad at your left hand and the buttons at your right hand. He moves forward at all times and you 
 move him side to side by tilting the controller left or right. When you want to jump, you will 
 press the jump button and hold it as you must charge your jumps before letting go and actually 
 leaping through the air. The longer you charge, the farther you go. This requires a lot of timing 
 as Sonic will kind of skid as you charge a jump, so while he slows down a bit he doesnt stop moving. 
 Thus you must charge your jumps well before you must actually make the jump. The second button 
 stops your forward movement when you hold it down. Sonic will skid to a halt and eventually stop 
 moving entirely. Once he has stopped, you can tilt the Wii controller back towards you if you want 
 him to run backwards.
  
  Even the combat in this game isnt really too complicated. When you want to take out an enemy you 
 must leap into the air and wait for the cursor that appears on them to turn from green to red. 
 Once it does so, you can flick the Wii controller forward to make your blue wonderball fly forward 
 and bash into the enemy. This will more often than not kill the enemy, letting you do it again 
 and bounce into the next one in your path. Should you not kill the enemy, you can dash into the 
 enemy as many times as it takes to kill them.
  
  While this sounds nice and simple, and it is to a degree, it is also the biggest flaw in the game. 
 When Sonic builds up a head of steam he can move so fast that controlling his side-to-side is actually 
 problematic. So it is usually safer to find a comfort zone where he is moving fast enough to get 
 through the stage, but not so fast that you cant control him. But even this becomes a problem 
 in some levels as the controls really do not feel that responsive. They tried to rectify some of 
 this by adding in an upgrade system though.
  
  When you complete levels, you gain experience depending on several factors including how fast you 
 do it and how many enemies you take out, amongst a few others. When you gain a set number of experience 
 Sonic levels up, allowing him to pick up more rings and to learn abilities. These abilities are 
 usually nothing more than making the game more responsive. So while there are a few interesting 
 ones, such as a backwards dashing attack that defeats enemies, it really stinks to need to unlock 
 better control for your character. Sonic is not a car, we shouldnt need to unlock better tires 
 for him, as it were. The controls should have been tighter to begin with and it almost feels like 
 a slap in the face to unlock this.
  
  There is one thing that Sonic most certainly cannot do in this game stop. Even though the basic 
 premise of this game is extreme speed with the blue wonder, the developers realized that this needed 
 to be broken up to avoid it getting too repetitive. So they put in moments where you have to either 
 stop to time a jump or you will need to move slower to avoid dangerous traps. However, Sonic does 
 not stop very well at all. He slowly grinds to a halt and depending on how fast he was going, he 
 might not stop in time. This gets very frustrating and can force you to memorize certain portions 
 of levels before you can get past them.
  
  Speaking of repetitive, you will have to play through each level at least five times to unlock 
 the boss fight and move on to the next level. This gets really redundant, especially considering 
 the fact that each level can sometimes be as short as a minute and a half if you move quickly through 
 it. Even in the older games each area had a few different levels in it to provide some variety.
 
  
  One short note about this game though: the multiplayer mode is really bad. Its like a bad imitation 
 of Mario Party where you get to play a bunch of cheesy little games, but none of them are any fun. 
 Even something as simple as catching butterflies is a chore in this game when they try to make 
 you use the d-pad on the remote to move your guy and then wave the remote slowly from side to side 
 to make the bubble. Ive never had so much difficulty blowing a freaking bubble in my life.
  
  Its clear that the developers mostly focused on a game about extreme speed and they did this 
 well. However, all the other aspects of the game have suffered for this. What could have been a 
 good game is reduced to a mere shadow of even the older Sonic games. Remember something, when someone 
 says this is the best Sonic game released in years, thats not saying much. Rent this one and see 
 if you like it, you might just be surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deimel2
Rating: 2.6
Date: Apr 4, 2007 12:19 am PT
Review:  Some people say this saved this saved the sonic series, to me, Sonic Heroes, Shadow, and Riders 
 saved it. I gonna review everything here. The gameplay = terrible! Tilting the Wiimote to turn and 
 barely registers. Grind controls are the you'll ever feel. And air controls are terrible.
  It just would have worked better with the nunchuk. The levels are bad as well. Lost Prolouge is pointless 
 for any who doesnt own the manual. Sand Oasis is boring and unworhty of your time. Dinosaur Jungle 
 has the worst music and design. Evil Foundry has the best music and is the best level. Levaited Ruin 
 is hard and sucky. Pirate Storm is disgusting and filled with water. Skeleton Dome is Hard and starnge. Night 
 Palace has good music but not worht the hype. You wont like the game at all. The Graphics are ok, 
 but feels too much like Sonic Heroes and the Music is the best about SatSR. And the story is shallow. The 
 cutsences are lame. If you've got the money for it, Go get Shadow The Hedghog, Sonic Riders, and 
 a used Sonic Heroes to NOT waste your money at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlacoJAM
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 3, 2007 8:39 pm PT
Review:  The visuals are nice, the game play is fast and is fun to play, but Sonic in my opinion is loosing 
 its uniqueness...
  
  Basically, Sonic and the Secret Rings is a fun game to play. The controls aren't perfect, but its 
 fun and changes the way Sonic as a game - 'feels' to play. Go and buy it. It will give you lots 
 of fun.
  
  The 'feel' bit is where I stop on the positive comments and would like to make another point of 
 view for everyone to think about.
  
  I consider myself a Sonic Purist , mainly because I admire the Sonic series from the Master System 
 Sonic The Hedgehog to Sonic &amp; Knuckles on the Genesis. I enjoy all of these games, and believe 
 that they make the Sonic 'Canon' - if we can use the word. That's why I will make this comment...
 
  
  I think that all the recent Sonic Series starting from the Dreamcast to the Wii have been loosing 
 their unique look and feel. Just compare the latest Sonic releases with the Sonic's of the early 
 90's.
  
  There is something about the dreamy landscapes of Green Hill Zone, with sharp and crystal clear 
 skies and the positive and dreamy house-synth tunes. Who can forget the feeling of playing through 
 the twilight of Spring Yard Zone and the stylistic landscape graphics and the late 80's influenced 
 drum sounds, or Chemical Plant Zone with it's night time sky scrapper landscape and exhilarating 
 music.
  
  The vivid, sharp and stylized visuals and the dreamy, positive and dynamic background music and 
 not forgetting the energetic speed of game play is what really made Sonic what it was. I believe 
 this has been lost.
  
  Why, there could be many reasons. According to some references, Masato Nakamura's dynamic sound 
 compositions aren't the same anymore in recent Sonic releases - or perhaps the rock-synth tunes 
 of Sonic have changed the way current games sound. He may not be part of any Sonic game development, 
 but that's not my point. I don't agree how the typical late electric guitar instruments tear through 
 the game, or if they really fit the dynamic character of what Sonic really is. Perhaps you have 
 noticed how visual elements within Sonic Adventure 2 featured earth like city escapes that never 
 really appeared in any of the early Sonic games. Ancient ruins - yes, but these never really felt 
 anything like other games. I wonder if the current trend of first-person-shooters or 3D dungeon 
 game design have filtered through to recent Sonic Series design elements. I don't agree with these 
 either. It seems that Sonic landscapes are trying to become more 'realistic' instead of being far 
 off stylized landscapes from another world - the Sonic world. Just take a look at any of the forest 
 landscapes in the late Sonic Series. They have no resemblance of Spring Hill Zone, or even the 
 lush Aquatic Ruins Zone in Sonic 2. In essence, I don't agree with the way the latest Sonic series 
 of games look, or the way they sound or how they play. The uniqueness of Sonic has been lost, and 
 this hasn't really improved in Sonic and the Secret Rings either. Not really.
  
  Perhaps Sega are only interested in selling Sonic games, inserting what they think is graphic and 
 music that are mainstream of fashionable in todays games industry. Yet, I don't see this really 
 happening with the Mario series of games from Nintendo. In fact, you may agree with me that Mario's 
 latest games have retained their original style in every game aspect, even if you play with a wireless 
 controller found on the Wii.
  
  Why does Mario feel more authentic even if it adheres to the same formula? My opinion is because 
 the old-skool aesthetics IS what makes Mario. It has kept its original roots, its original look 
 and feel and to my opinion, Nintendo has perfected the way Mario plays, looks and feels. And this 
 is what people like...
  
  My point is... Sega, go back to your roots. Perfect Sonic The real Sonic, like it was in the Genesis 
 years. Continue with your 3D vision if you insist, but use todays graphic technologies to enhance 
 and perfect the way Sonic was. Perfect Sonic's original jump sound effects, perfect Sonic's stylized 
 dream landscape with more lighting effects and simplistic flat retro textures, perfect the old-skool 
 house sound and anything else that made Sonic in the early years. Stick to the formula. It won't 
 hurt it, because these elements are what make Sonic what it is. It won't make it old - it will 
 keep it - original. And that's what most Sonic fans want... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshilila
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Wellllllllllll Sonic and the secret rings is definitely what i wanted cause the only importing 
 thing to me in life is true speed and my friends already call me speed freak cause i most of the 
 time like to race my friends home or to wherever we are going^^ so this game gets all 10 thumbs 
 up^^
  But really, if anyone can tell me that its possible to turn around a driving car with a speed of 
 (only for example) 1200 mph without even using the breaks
  then i am surprised.
  Because think of this like a car race, in a race between cars no car would go off of the track 
 (except its a cheater) with purpose.
  So i like the thought of the levels being like a race track^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p_angelofdeath
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 2, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  The answer of combine with action adventure &amp; rpg is good. it's worth playing
  &amp; very fun to play and keep the exp for the new move of rings.
  Overall is good the game 
 play is well done with Wii Remote every thing work fine but sometime it's hard to control Sonic 
 and some stage are unbeliever it's very hard hard you play until you bore and find another game 
 to play that more easier. Graphic is nice Soundtrack is awesome e .
  
  Conclusion : This series the real fan of sonic must play and you will not disappoint except the 
 hard stage to play in some level.
  
  My Score is 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay, Sonic and the Secret Rings is an alright game and whould of done better without the stupid 
 girl talking constantly and such a lame story. All Sonic games have had lame stories but this was 
 just dumb. The Graphics look good and desent but through the game you will find your camera view 
 go through things and be all glitchy. But on the bright side it is actualy fun. Fun to use the 
 Wii-Mote sideways and everything but could of been much better.
  
  Graphics, sure they look good... but from playing the game for about 2 minutes you will see behind 
 the pretty visuals.
  
  Sound, normal rock whatever music Sonic always has but its really bad. And thats just the music. 
 If we are talking about sound... ugh there is this annoying girl that talks to you through out 
 the entire game and you cannot repeat cannot TURN HER VOICE OFF!!
  
  Value, If you are a Sonic fan you will like this game and not care about glitches and annoying 
 people and lame jokes and story. But I like Sonic but not this game. Buy it if you think its right. 
 But personaly its bad. Only a true sonic fan that loves sonic should buy it. Or little kids.
  
  Tilt,
  
  The Good, Twist and turn, crash and burn. Fun to go around the level. it's an 
 alright fun, fast adventure.
  
  The Bad, Glitchy visuals you will find through out the game and terrible music and a girl that 
 will talk to you exacly when you dont want her to. Bad story just bad.
  
  6.5
  
  it was alright and fun for a while but it doesn\'t last long enough. the girl will drive you absolutely 
 nuts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heathcliff
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 1, 2007 12:39 am PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings rights the wrongs of previous 3D Sonic games in many areas, so it feels 
 a bit fresh. As if Sega had finally listened to the complaints people have had with the series 
 since it went 3D. Sonic himself is once again the hero in his own series, after sharing the spotlight 
 with his unimpressive supporting cast in previous installments. So there's no shooter portions 
 with Tails, or treasure-hunting quests with Knuckles. This game is all-Sonic. . . . .Well, the 
 single-player portion at least. The camera problems that have plagued the last few games are for 
 the most part, gone. How? By making the game on-rails. So the camera is fixed most of the time. 
 You don't have to push forward to make Sonic run. He does it on his own. What you do is steer his 
 movements left and right by holding the remote horizontally, and tilting it left and right. You 
 can also make him jump, and once in the air, you thrust the remote forward to make him perform 
 a homing attack on enemies. This is actually lots of fun to do. And there's a pretty good sense 
 of speed in the game. This is a game that will put your reflexes to the test. There are eight stages 
 in the game, and these are broken into several missions. Some have simple objectives where you're 
 only required to reach the end of the level. Others have different requirememnts, such as defeat 
 all enemies, or don't get defeated, or grab a particular number of rings, etc. Some are fun. Some 
 are extremely frustrating. In fact, the difficulty in some of these missions is quite unforgiving. 
 While the camera is fixed most of the time, every once in awhile it will give you an awkward angle. 
 The fixed camera is also a problem when backing up. You basically go backwards and blindly. Visually, 
 this is one of the best looking from-the-ground-up Wii games so far. The sound on the other hand 
 is simply awful. The voice acting is bad. And the music is worse. You have to sit through a lot 
 of cheesy rock songs. It's as if the folks at Sega had been to a local club, picked up whatever 
 indie amateur rock band happened to be playing that night, recorded their awful songs and put them 
 on the soundtrack. It's just terrible. If I really wanted to listen to rock music while playing 
 Sonic, I'd rather listen to any of my Iron Maiden albums instead. All in all, Sonic and the Secret 
 Rings is a good game, just be aware of the difficulty and the horrible music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Golden_Flames
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 31, 2007 11:22 pm PT
Review:  This game has just brought sonic from the grave of the sega genises. this game starts out pretty 
 slow, but once you start leveling up (yes you level up) you can equip items to your custom item 
 ring, im actually level44 and i go pretty fast. once you get the hang of the controls this game 
 is easy as pie. it's also a good game if you don't mind dieing in every level for the first time 
 through the game... the music in this game rocks i must say. every song in the levels has singing 
 in it, which makes the game cooler. my personal favorite song is evil froundry, you'll find out 
 what im talking about later i dont think sonic fans would have a much of a problem with this although 
 it is fun to those unintrestead in sonic. if you don't think you'll have much fun just rent it. 
 although i thought it wasn't gonna be much fun but then i played it and im saying to myself... welcome 
 back sonic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roswell2006
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 30, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  As of late most sonic games have have a certain link between them... they arent very good, Sonics 
 decline was around the time of Sonic Adventure, and it went downhill from there till the recent 
 abismal Sonic Riders, But Sonic And The Secret Rings is a great new restart the series.
  
  The game starts of relativly easy with a few short training levels to get you used to the new control 
 system. Some of my friends said about how slow Sonic is to begin with. But i personally feel that 
 this is a good way for you to learn how to begin to master Sonic, hence the short learning curve.
 
  
  The surroundings are vast and beautiful, even though you sometimes only get a millisecond or two 
 to see them.
  
  One thing that I did like about the recent Sonics was the soundtrack, and this Sonic is no different, 
 with a brilliant song called Seven Rings In Hand (feel free to correct me if thet is wrong) .
  
  Sonics Start on 3rd Gen is of to an amazing start, I hope they keep it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killermonkey97
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 29, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Sonic's new game, Sonic and the Secret Ring for the Wii, is all about playing as Sonic this time. 
 That's right: no more teams such as the likes of Sonic Heroes; no more fishing trips; no more shooting 
 from Shadow; and no more Master Emerald scavenger hunts! Anyways, in the beginning, we see Sonic 
 reading a book. All of a sudden, a genie pops out! This genie then tells Sonic that troubles about 
 in the book, for all the pages in the book have been gone. This book happens to be the 1001 Arabian 
 Tales. Who takes the pages? Not Eggman! That's right, instead of Eggman, it's an Arabian villain 
 known as the Erazor Djinn. This young, female genie also claims that only the blue hedgehog can 
 bring order to the book or something like that. Sonic then agrees, and journeys through eight or 
 seven different worlds, collecting rings, collecting bigger rings, stopping the devious Erazor 
 Djinn, and meeting look-a-likes of Eggman, Knuckles, Tails, etc. And also, spoiler alert, Sonic 
 gets a fiery arrow stuck in his chest! Now that I blew your mind, here's my review:
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Gameplay: Let's face it: the last few years haven't been so pretty. Ever since the acceptable, 
 but far from perfect Sonic Adventure games have been out, Sonic in 3-D wasn't near as fun and thrilling 
 as the 2-D Sonic games. Many reasons include not playing fully as Sonic and an awful camera. Anyways, 
 now that Sonic and the Secret Rings has come out, for the first time in 3-D Sonic, you finally 
 get to only play as Sonic! But how does solo Sonic play this time? Well, using only the Wii-mote, 
 you use it side-ways (the popular example being like a NES controller) . You don't control Sonic's 
 speed; instead, you control pretty much every other action Sonic makes. To turn, turn your Wii 
 remote left or right depending on which direction. To jump, you press A, even hold it for a charge. 
 To do a quick jump, you do a simple flick with the Wii remote, and if you're locked on an enemy, 
 homing attacks. Tilt the remote toward you to make him go back. And many, many other Wii uses for 
 other skills, in which you can get new ones by leveling up (and yes, in Sonic and the Secret Rings, 
 there is a level-up system with a certain amount of skill points you can use for each skill. There 
 are also four skill rings to put your skills in, and create your own skill-list for each set, so 
 that's pretty neat.) . If you think it takes some time to learn don't worry because it does. There's 
 alot of things to use, and as intuitive as it can get, it's still going to take some time to perfect 
 the controls. The speed is great, and the new camera angle is better than what any of the other 
 3-D Sonic games offered. However, in quite a few levels, prepare to get frustrated; with the camera 
 angle that locks onto Sonic much like how the camera locks on to Leon in Resident Evil 4, and the 
 speed going faster as you don't screw up, it will get harder to dodge and expect things, and you 
 might have to start that level over. It's not a very big deal, but it can get annoying, especially 
 in the later levels. Also, the game has you doing 100 or so missions, most of them being in a same 
 level. These missions aren't bad, but it is kind of odd why you can't break pots in one mission 
 (one of the annoying bits, breaking pots in another, and how this has anything to do with the storyline. 
 But, it's nothing bad, the storyline is lame anyways; however, it's the out-of-the-box that are 
 the most frustrating. If these were fixed and tweaked, then this score I give might've gone higher. 
 But I'm not saying this game is bad at all; it is far from it. This has to be the best three-dimensional 
 Sonic offers. I find it this way because, thanks to the camera, it resembles more of what all the 
 fun 2-D Sonic games offered: speedy platforming. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Graphics: This Sonic game is one of the prettier Wii games. Its amazing sense of speed, with no 
 framerate issues at that, is fantastic. The looks are also pretty on the eyes, especially the environments 
 here. Animations also do nice, and everything seems to be put into great effort, quite simply. 
 Flaws? Well, not really a flaw as it is a gripe, the cutscenes , or paper cut-out/story-book looks, 
 isn't exactly spell-bounding as it is cheesy, even though this probably fits the game the best. 
 That, and, even though this game is visually impressive, the Wii can do better, I'm sure of it. 
 Otherwise, Sonic and the Secret Rings is a good-looking game.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Sound: You can't imagine anything with blue hegehogs, let alone any oddly fictional animal character, 
 especially combined with odd settings (in this case, Arabian Nights) , to not sound corny, let alone 
 like a freaking ditzy soap opera. Ever Sonic had his voice, it has always been corny, and I can't 
 say that I can blame the game for this happening; it can't barely do any better. To make this even 
 more cheesy is its modern hardcore theme song, in which is about Sonic and his journey. Add some 
 original pop metal as your background music, and you get a cheesy-sounding game. That's not a bad 
 thing (heck it's not the game's fault) , but there's nothing brilliant to the sound.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Value: The game doesn't last but 7 or more hours, but you'll have exhilarations at time. While 
 you can try to medal everything, some of these places are too frustrating to even play again. The 
 party mode is okay to try, but there is nothing amazing about it. Play it, play it some more, play 
 it a little more, and remember it.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Tilt: Though the 2-D Sonic games are the best types of Sonic, Sonic and the Secret Ring is enjoyable, 
 and hasn't been this fun in years. While I wouldn't reccomend buying this, I would say a definite 
 rental; everyone should have a little taste of what this Sonic game offers, from loyal Sonic fans 
 to nowadays disappointed and sour Sonic fans, with even some newcomers here and there. Frustration 
 could be the reason for some gamers not to buy the game, while it might not be seen or minded by 
 others. Either way, play before you judge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mindchamber
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 28, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Sonic is Back! This time its actually fun! Thats right. Finally a 3D Sonic game that is actually 
 more of an homage to the first Sonic game on the Genesis, than the first original 3D Sonic game, 
 Sonic Adventures!. Yah I know, thats blasphemy you say. Sonic Adventures was the one truly fun 
 Sonic game that blasted into the 3rd Dimension. Truth be told the Sonic adventures was one hell 
 of a game for its time, but it never captures that true sense of Speed like the Original 2D Sonics 
 had done. It almost felt as though Sonic adventures was trying to be more like Mario 64 than anything. 
 Sonic Adventures 2 tried to rectify that with more action stages, less annoying fetch quests, and 
 less wide open spaces to get lost in. Still, it was marred by some pretty buggy collision detection 
 and a lame camera that they never bothered fixing in later versions of the game. So after over 
 five years of using the same engine and gameplay mechanics the Sonic franchise seemed to be coming 
 apart at the seams.
  
  In comes Sonic and the Secret rings. This Sonic game is the first original Sonic title for the 
 Nintendo Wii, and NOT a port of the Horrible Sonic the hedgehog, for the 360 and Ps3.
  
  Sega Completely Scrapped the buggy old Game play and engine, and focused on what made the original 
 Genesis Sonic games so much fun, which was Speed, and twitch game play. In SSR you can no longer 
 rotate sonic or look around. You can only run forward, side to side, and back peddle. The camera 
 for the most part is always looking forward. So the players only job is to control sonic, by moving 
 him left, right forward, back, jump and homing attack.
  
  Basically the game is now on rails, like Star Fox, Panzer Dragoon, or Space Harrier. The camera 
 zooms through the terrain in the level, and its your job not to trip Sonic up in the process. 
 Simple as that! Why it took Sega this long to figure this out is beyond me. While the Wii controls 
 can take some getting used to, (you have to tilt the remote sideways to move left and right, flip 
 the remote upside down for backpedaling, and thrust the remote forward to do the homing attack) 
 the moves themselves dont get any more complicated than that. You can simply enjoy moving Sonic 
 at blazing speeds, which is really what all we Sonic fans wanted to begin with.
  
  If that was all there was to this game I would have been happy. Thankfully Sega had some fun with 
 this new Sonic game.
  
  The First thing youll notice is the Storyline,. Sonics not set on the planet mobius as in the 
 previous games, but in the World from the fairly tale book Arabian Nights. The Story sets the 
 mood for the graphics which are, lots of warm tones, and sandy sunsets, with very dream like Arabian 
 hymns for background music. The Cinemas are shown through painted panels on weathered looking pages, 
 which also add to the dreamy storybook charm.
  
  The graphics themselves arent very impressive. I would say they are on par with the original graphics 
 on the Dreamcast, which still are very good, but blocky compared to todays standards. The major 
 difference is that the Wii, while not very powerful, sports a host of nifty filters and effects 
 up its sleeve. Cool effects like Burred backgrounds to create depth, bump mapping for that nice 
 shimmer effects on water, and strains of fur on Sonics head, to Bloom effects for that warm sunny 
 Arabian haze. All of this really gives the graphics that extra punch. Personally I feel this is 
 the best looking game on the Wii to date. As I already mentioned, locking the camera, and setting 
 the game on rails was a stroke of genius. Whether the camera comes in low when Sonic hits those 
 mach 1 speeds, or pulls back to a helicopter view to show a stampede of Triceratops on your tail, 
 the new on-rails game play lets you control Sonic better during these intense situations. Without 
 having to worry about unavoidably falling off.
  
  There are about seven levels in the single player mode, which is average for a 2D Sonic game, but 
 kind of short for a full priced next-gen game. Luckily (much like the painted panel cinemas) , Sega 
 came up with some creative ways to keep the game fresh without it coming off too cheap.
  
  Each Level will have about 8 to ten objectives you have to complete each time you run through them. 
 So when you complete the level the first time, the Second time you may be asked to do it without 
 breaking vases scattered through out the level, or without dying once, or under a set time limit. 
 These types of objectives are very common in most racing games, so its no surprise its a great 
 fit here.
  In an effort to pad out the experience a bit further, SSR has a small leveling up system, complete 
 with new abilities, like slowdown, and speed dashing from the starting position. It probably 
 seemed like a great idea on paper but the extra abilites aren't needed to progress, and don't really 
 have any effect on the game.
  
  In keeping with the Wii tradition, SSR comes with over 30 multiplayer minigames. They are a fun 
 diversion, but like the RPG and leveling up system, they can seem a bit tacked on and undercooked.
 
  
  There have been some bumps along the way, but with games like Sonic Rush for the DS, and now 
 Sonic and the Secret Rings it looks like Sonic finally recovered from his few stumbles and is 
 ready to show us what he can really do.
  
  B++ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LasPlagasHope
Rating: 5.9
Date: Mar 28, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for Sonic and the Secret Rings. Videos of the game gave us a look at nice graphics 
 and really cool speed, and that about all the game has to offer and it's not even that good. You 
 start off with a picture cut scene where Sonic's help is needed by characters from the book he 
 is reading. And the story is kinda lame but I won't give anything away. Gameplay is Sonic is like 
 a driving wii gam you hold the wii-mote like a steering wheel to move sonic around. At the begining 
 of the level you start off slow and you gain speed but it can be easily interupted and it is very 
 annoying. And sometime when you are moving so fast you font even feel like you have control of 
 sonic and it takes you out of the game in a really bad feeling way. The combat also feel weird 
 you trust the wii-mote foward to hit enemies but it don't feeling right either. The music in the 
 game is the worst part you have these really bad rock songs and it mainly gives you a headache 
 and makes you want to turn the volume on your tv to mute. Over all I really did not enjoy the game 
 but hard core sonic fans might wanna rent it for a weekend but whatever you do! Do not spend 50 
 bucks of your hard earned money on this piece of work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheezyFrog
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 9, 2007 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Developer: Sega of Japan
  Publisher: Sega
  Rated: E for Everyone
  Genre: 3-D Platformer
  Platform: Wii Sonic and the Secret Rings is the best 3-D Sonic game ever, 
 which is not saying much for Sonic. Sega tried to embrace the Wiis new technology and the applications 
 where very intuitive, but overall they felt loose and a little rushed. Because of how scattered 
 the cinematics are throughout Secret Rings I couldnt follow the story, which is probably a good 
 thing because it would have dragged the game down even faster. Gameplay
  
  Sonics control scheme is very simple, and as previously stated, is executed very well. The use 
 of the motion sensing technology throughout the game is not awkward or over-used like in Marvel 
 Ultimate Alliance, in fact it plays just like Excite Truck. The downfall of this is that the controls 
 where sloppily done and feel rushed. You hold the Wii Remote horizontally then tilt it to the left 
 or right to move Sonic, just like driving in Excite Truck. The major malfunction with the Sonic 
 control scheme is its inability to do precise movements. When you are trying to collect rings, 
 and you need to be accurate, turning is very difficult because it twitches too the far left/right. 
 To move in reverse you tilt the Wii Remote back ( ( towards yourself) ) which is fine, but when you 
 tilt it too far forward it also makes you go backwards which is an inconvenient glitch, something 
 that should have been caught before mass-production. Besides those two flaws the controls are rather 
 smooth, and truly work well with the game mechanics. The whole game consists of running through 
 a course without hitting anythingand occasionally you need to jump or attack an enemy or two. 
 There is a party-mode that supports up to four players, but it is very shallow and forgettable. 
 The entire party-mode is a cheap rip-off of Wario Ware: Smooth Moves. You play a bunch of random 
 mini-games that are overly simple with poor controls. Each time you win you get to open one out 
 of X number of chests, after they are all open its over, to spice it up even more each chest 
 has either X amount of gold or a ghost which makes it soooo much more exciting! Other than that 
 there is not much more to the game, its a 3-D Sonic game you shouldnt have read this expecting 
 too much
  
  Environment and Graphics The fun factor in Sonic is definitely there, it just is not a lasting 
 effect. After beating The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, Sonic is the game a lot of people 
 needed to waste time until Super Paper Mario or Super Mario Galaxy comes out. One major game-play 
 downfall is the speed, you can get to a relatively high-speed but even at top-speed it feels slow 
 for a Sonic game. Another negative is the acceleration time, whenever Sonic runs into something 
 he has to starts off really slow and builds momentum, which takes much longer then it should. Once 
 again, if you can overlook these few flaws then you will have an enjoyable time, although even 
 with a positive attitude towards the game or the Sonic series in-general it does start getting 
 repetitive around the third or fourth world... which is about half-way through the game. Speaking 
 of 3-D, the graphics are great, besides some awkward looping animations and a few random camera 
 or frame-rate problems it runs smoothly. The cut-scenes surpass those of The Legend of Zelda: Twilight 
 Princess as do the in-game graphics. The animations are fluid and the environments are lush and 
 detailed, it all comes together very well. I would say Sonic has the best Wii graphics to date. 
 Sound
  
  The audio is crisp but nothing revolutionary, the same coin sound-effects you have been listening 
 to since the Sega Genesis. There is a new theme-song, which plays way too much, is an edgy punk 
 re-mix of some horrid band. It is ridiculous how many times they loop that throughout the gamecan 
 you say Over used? The style of the song just doesnt work with a Sonic game. Nice try though 
 Sega. Conclusion
  
  I would say overall Sonic and the Secret Rings is a rent at best. I would consider purchasing it 
 if the price dropped, but for what you get with Sonic it is not worth the full retail value. Good 
 luck next time Sega.
  
  Gameplay: 7.5
  Environment &amp; Graphics: 8
  Sound: 7
  Story: 6
  Fun: 7
  Overall: 7.1
  
  Verdict: Rent it or Buy it Used 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LAZZOR
Rating: 5.9
Date: Mar 27, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Sega's iconic blue rodent finally makes his debut on Nintendo's white happy fun box aka the Wii 
 in Sonic and the Secret Rings. The game has you running around various levels some of which are 
 inspiried by the Arabian Nights stories. Basically the story is some evil Djinn guy is destryoing 
 the world of the Arabian Nights and it's up to Sonic to stop him. Not very interesting.
  
  Gameplay is decent the sense of speed is apparent but the tilting the Wiimote to steer takes a 
 while to get used to and the tutorials aren't that helpful. The main problem with this game is 
 the combat if you want to call it that. Instead of pressing the jump button twice like in previous 
 Sonic titles first you have to wait for the enemy to be targeted, then wait for the target change 
 colour and finally jump and thrust the remote forward. This is making something that should be 
 easy waay to complicated. Aside from the craptastic combat that game does give you a sense of speed 
 which makes the game playable but the generic Sonic rock we've come to known is still here. There 
 are multiplayer party games but they do get old after a while.
  
  This one is really only for the hardcore of Sonic fans everyone else should rent or skip it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madogmgd
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 26, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  its a pretty good game to play. i rented it had some fun but it gets
  boring sometimes if your a sonic fan you will love it controls can get
  a bit frustrating sometimes 
 but they are fun a game to add
  to your wii collection multiplayer is also fun. sometimes
  it takes a while to understand what to do when doing actions
  like launching from a catapult 
 and sonic runs automatically
  but that can get very frustrating sometimes if you love sonic
  and got the cash or looking for 
 a good wii game to last
  you for a while sonic and the secret rings is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic3456
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 23, 2007 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret rings is one of the best games in the Sonic Series. It Doesn't really have 
 a good story but who cares, everything else about it is awesome. You start off with limited abilities 
 but as you progress more appear and most of them are useful (except for time break) . Anyway there 
 are a couple of new characters in this game Sharra your main helper in the game and Erazor Djinn 
 the games main villian. There are 8 worlds with twenty missions each giving it a lot of replay 
 value. To some it all up it's a game with a bad story but everything else is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YouTube89
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 26, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game, but it isn't as good as I expected it to be. This is one of the Wii games 
 where you have to turn the remote sidways and tilt it left or right.
  
  Gameplay: The controls are kinda hard, but it is pretty interesting sometimes. Also, some of the 
 metals are really hard to get. You have to go back and forth through the game to get the gold medals, 
 and that can get quite confusing.
  
  Graphics: This game's graphics are awesome. Sonic look so real, that I get addicted very easily. 
 The background design looks very cool as well.
  
  Sound: The theme songs are great, but not as great as they should be. The songs are really hard 
 to keep up with.
  
  Value: It's not the best Wii game, but it is one of the best Wii games. This is worth your money.
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Anyone should have this game.
  
  Overall Score: 8.7 (Cool) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angel624
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 25, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  in sonic and the secret rings, sonic is sent into the book the arabian nights to save it, because 
 if he dosent, evil will come out of the book and try to take over earth! sonic is teamed up with 
 the genie of the ring shara, and both of them try to stop the evil genie of the lamp, the erazor-djinn. 
 yea, the story sounds corny, but the game is a whole lot better then it sounds.
  
  sonic has 4 rings that you can customize to give him certain skills. as you go through the game, 
 you get more skills to put on your ring. the skills can vary, some can increase speed, others can 
 increase power, either way, the skills can come in handy in this game.
  
  there are a total of seven worlds in the game. each world has about 12 or 13 missions to do. the 
 missions are things that you do to unlock certain things, like more missions, skills, and party 
 games. you have to get the seven world rings to unlock the final boss. to get the seven rings, 
 you'll have to do certain missions, or beat the boss in that world. you will learn what the rings 
 do early on in the game. but remember this, you have to get the rings to beat the game.
  
  the controls in the game can be annoying to most people, but i like it. the graphics are real good, 
 to me, they actually bring ou the wiis power. the music isnt the best, to me the main theme is 
 really bad, but thats mainly my only complaint.
  
  now for the party games:
  i havent really played the party games, but to tell you the truth, they arent that good. so i cant 
 give you any info. on those. sorry!
  
  all in all, sonic is a real good game, but if you're double minded, go ahead and rent it, i bet 
 you'll enjoy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aal9922
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 25, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best game that anybody can ever play for the nintendo wii. this might be the best 
 sonic game because of the way you interact with the game. to play, you have to sway the wii remote 
 left and right to move sonic left and right, and move the wii remote back to move sonic backwards. you 
 jump with the number 2 button and brake with the number 1 button. there is no other sonic game that 
 you can control like this one. anybody that has a nintendo wii should get this game because once 
 you get into this game, you might not stop playing it until you beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperSonic223
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 25, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  In the past couple years the Sonic series has been falling off and some think Sonic team should 
 stop making Sonic games altogether. Sonic and the Secret Rings is not the case and it pushes Sonic 
 in the right direction. The controls can get a little frustrating at times, but they are a great 
 fit for this game (you feel more in control of Sonic) , and the auto-camera is very good. If youve 
 played a lot of Sonic in the past youll notice that this is a harder than they usually have been. 
 The music would have been fine if they kept out the lyrics. I thought the plot was better than 
 it has been in some of the past games, even though I didnt really pay much attention to it. _ 
 The main playable mode is Adventure the single player portion of the game. It is divided into eight 
 chapters (including the tutorial world) and these chapters are subdivided into paragraphs, or missions. 
 The missions for each chapter will keep you busy for a while, after completing one you get experience 
 points. A bronze, silver or gold metal can also be rewarded (this unlocks new skills) . There are 
 also 3 fire souls in almost all of the missions, which unlock characters for party mode and pages 
 Story Book mode. The RPG element in this game is pretty cool, you have 4 rings to equip skills 
 to (sadly you can only equip 1 ring at a time) ; your current level determines the capacity for 
 the rings. Party mode was okay, it offers mini-games for up to four players (computer or human 
 players) , a little bit similar to Mario Party. There is also Story Book, which is a special feature 
 where special pages are recovered during the game; the collected pages offer you the opportunity 
 to look at game artwork, cut-scenes, videos or sound testing.
  
  Sonic and the Secret Rings is an eye-opener for everyone who has grown tired of the Sonic series. 
 Secret Rings offers enough progress in the gameplay to warrant some serious consideration and some 
 great old-school platforming fun with good graphics. Anyone who owns the Wii right now should have 
 this game, and it is a hopeful sign for the blue guys future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GnarlsB
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 25, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  After a slew of disappointing and downright bad games, Sega's speedy hedgehog has finally returned 
 in a game worthy of the Sonic legacy. Sonic and the Secret Rings for the Wii takes the game back 
 to its high speed roots. While you can technically move in three dimensions, you're almost always 
 moving forward whether you want to or not, and lateral movement is limited to taking one or two 
 steps in either direction as you involuntarily sprint down a narrow path. Confined as it may be, 
 Sonic and the Secret Rings works because it lets you run at breakneck speeds through great-looking, 
 fantastical stages. The game is not without its share of frustrations, but Sonic and the Secret 
 Rings is certainly worth playing. Spiked balls are the natural enemy of the hedgehog. The story 
 in Secret Rings is a slight departure from the usual Sonic the Hedgehog setup. One day while Sonic 
 is sleeping, a genie visits him. The genie is from the book Arabian Nights, which is being destroyed 
 by an evil genie known as Erazor. Apparently, if Erazor amasses enough power, he'll be able to 
 leave the book and come to life to terrorize Sonic's world. Sonic has to put a stop to Erazor's 
 plans by visiting seven different fantasy worlds to collect magic rings that can be used to restore 
 Arabian Nights. You play the game as Sonic and travel to seven fantasy worlds (plus one tutorial 
 world) . You'll travel to a dinosaur world, a floating ruin, a pirate level, and more. Each level 
 has several different challenges for you to complete. The first challenge is simply to run from 
 the beginning of the level to the end, but you'll eventually unlock much more interesting challenges. 
 Some challenges require you to collect a certain number of rings, finish a level before a timer 
 runs out, make it through a stage without killing a single enemy, or just kill a boss enemy. These 
 different challenges add a lot of variety to the game, so even though you'll play each level 10 
 times or more, you'll find a unique experience each time. The controls in Sonic and the Secret 
 Rings are simple enough to pick up, but they can also be incredibly frustrating at times. You hold 
 the Wii Remote sideways and tilt it left and right to move Sonic side to side. The 1 button makes 
 Sonic stop and the 2 button makes him jump. With such simple controls, you'd think it would be 
 a piece of cake to guide the hedgehog through each level. The problem is that most of the time 
 you don't have direct control of Sonic's forward movement. Sonic automatically runs as fast as 
 he can, and it's your job to make him jump and weave over and between obstacles. With all that 
 forward momentum, the trick is to time your jumps and sidesteps just right to avoid the hazards 
 in your path. That isn't easy, because the game moves so fast that you'll rarely have time to react 
 during your first run through a level. After you've died and retried a dozen times and have the 
 layout of the level memorized, you might be able to survive. The amount of trial and error required 
 for most of the challenges is a bit extreme, and it will definitely try your patience. In addition 
 to running, jumping, and grinding on rails, Sonic can attack enemies by jumping in the air and 
 homing in on them. When you jump, you'll automatically target the nearest enemy, and while you're 
 in the air, you can quickly move the Wii Remote forward to home in on the enemy and kill it. You 
 can chain these kills together to clear large gaps or wipe out large groups of enemies without 
 ever touching the ground. The homing attack does make combat extremely easy, but it's used primarily 
 as a way to get from one point to another anyway, so enemies could just as well be springboards 
 or floating platforms instead. As you complete challenges, you earn experience points and unlock 
 new skills. These special skills do everything from increasing your maximum speed to giving you 
 bonus rings. Before each challenge, you can equip these skills to your skill ring. You can only 
 equip a certain number of skills, though, depending on how many skill points you have. You can 
 have multiple skill rings set up so that you can adapt your skill set to fit any challenge. Usually 
 though, you never have to bother with skills. A few of the skills are useful, but most of them 
 are pointless. After all, you don't need to equip any skills to run fast and jump, which is just 
 about all you ever need to do in this game. The single-player game feels pretty sizable, although 
 you could easily finish it in a weekend. There is a multiplayer game here, as well, which, as you 
 might have guessed if you've played any other Wii game, involves playing dozens of different minigames 
 that make creative use of the Wii Remote. This portion of the game lets you play against three 
 friends or computer players in a series of minigames. The minigames each put the Wii Remote to 
 use in ways different than the main game. You'll have to paddle a canoe, spear fruit with a sword, 
 swing a large ball on a chain, shoot balloons, chop wood, and perform many, many more gestures 
 with the remote. Most of the minigames are fun for at least the first couple of times you play 
 them, but they aren't very different from the plethora of minigames found in other Wii titles. 
 Some of the worlds in this game look great, like this floating ruin. The graphics are great in 
 Sonic and the Secret Rings. Each level is large and has a great sense of scale, with huge dinosaurs, 
 pirate ships, corkscrews, loops, and other structures to run on. The visuals are sharp and colorful, 
 and you'll have a great time just watching Sonic run because the game provides the same thrilling 
 sense of speed that made the Sonic games appealing in the first place. Impressively, the game keeps 
 pace just fine as you fly through each level, without any slowdown throughout the game. Each level 
 has a specific, usually high-energy theme that fits the action well. The tunes are so incredibly 
 cheesy that they are funny, and they seem to be a perfect match for Sonic's early-'90s sense of 
 style. The English voice acting during the lengthy cutscenes is awful, but at least there's an 
 option to listen to the Japanese voices instead. Whether you remember the glory days of Sega's 
 mascot or are just looking for a new Wii game to bring home, Sonic and the Secret Rings is a solid 
 choice. The gameplay is simple but challenging, and there's something incredibly satisfying about 
 running really, really fast. The minigames aren't anything special, but together with the single-player 
 game, they round out the package nicely. If you're looking for a game that provides a lot of thrills 
 and enough depth to sustain them, you can't go wrong with Sonic and the Secret Rings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axel-D
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 24, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  Overall, the controls are a little difficult to grasp, but its actually quite fun once you get 
 used to it. You have to tilt the Wiimote from side to side to turn Sonic left or right, as he constantly 
 moves forward. Now, to collect rings and dodge obstacles, this takes a little more practice, since 
 you need to do it at a different pace depending on how fast Sonic is moving. You can use the 1 
 button to break, and the 2 button to jump, and you thrust the Wiimote forwards to use the homing 
 attack. The levels in the game become increasingly difficult, and depending on the mission you're 
 doing, can get even more difficult to get through. The fact that you can level Sonic up to get 
 more skills to equip to his Skill Ring is actually pretty neat, although it causes Sonic to be 
 pretty slow at the games beginning.
  
  Graphics
  
  To put it bluntly, this game has some of the prettiest and most vibrant graphics I've seen on a 
 Wii game yet. The worlds are well put together, and the characters look really good. One issue 
 I have though, is that most of the scenes were placed in 2D, aside from the two CG sequences near 
 the end of the game.
  
  Sound
  
  The soundtrack for this game is pretty unique, mixing that usual Sonic feel with some sounds of 
 the middle east. Most of the world themes are catchy, and the games theme song is actually quite 
 addictive and well done as well.
  
  Overall
  
  If you aren't really that big of a Sonic fan, I'd hold off on purchasing this until it goes down 
 in price. However, if you're looking for a decent Wii game to play or you are a Sonic fan, this 
 game is for you. It isn't terribly long (the main plot only taking me about 5 hour to accomplish) , 
 but there are over 100 missions to complete, and a whole truckload of features to unlock. The game 
 isn't without flaws, but its a solid Wii title that will keep you playing for a good while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sora250
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 23, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Sonic is back in sonic and the secret rings for the Nintendo wii. A game built from the ground 
 up just for the wii. Can this game be one of the best 3D sonic games ever, lets find out.
  
  Game play: 9/10
  For anybody who does not know the main core game play of sonic, you speed 
 around the level to get to the end and then on to the next level. In this game, you hold the wii 
 mote on it side and steer sonic around the level to try to get to the end of the stage. You jump 
 in this game by pressing the 2 button and use the homing attack by tilting the wii mote as you 
 jump. With these new controls, you feel like you are really playing sonic. For the most part, the 
 camera has been fixed by but sometimes, if you try to back up, the camera won't keep up with you 
 but this can be forgiven because all of this game is on rails. The single player game has you going 
 through seven worlds trying to defeat Erazor Djinn at the last stage. To even get to a new stage, 
 you are going to have to complete more than one mission to get to the next stage. To help you, 
 you will get experience points at the end of every mission. Points can be use to get more abilities 
 for sonic. Some of these abilities you are going to need to pass the stage. With experience, you 
 can now make sonic custom to what you like him to be. The 2 through 4-player mode are all mini 
 games. Some are great while others are broken. You will not find a lot here if you came for the 
 multi player. Overall, the game play is great, just need fix up the camera at some points and get 
 better mini games for multi player then it will have the perfect game play.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  The graphic push the wii to some of it limits with the colors of all the 
 stage being different. Sometimes, the graphic can get ugly but not that much to make you stop playing 
 the game. The story mode graphics instead of using cut screen uses picture which is the easy way 
 out for a launch window game but next time, use real cut screen Sega. The reason for the pictures 
 is to give it a more book feeling then a real life game.
  
  Overall: This game is not as good as the x-box 360 and a playstation 3 version but is still great 
 for a Nintendo wii game. Story: 8/10
  The story has change from almost every sonic game made. Sonic is contacted by Shahra, a genie who 
 is from the Arabian Nights, who tells sonic to help her defeat Erazor. So sonic get suck inside 
 a book to help save her world from annihilation or sonic world will be destroyed along with Shahra. 
 The story is not the same for a sonic game but is still good. For all of sonic friends, they will 
 be playing parts of the Arabian Nights like Knuckles is Sinbad and Tails is Ali baba. This gives 
 the story a more Arabian Nights feel, which for this game is great. Sound: 8/10
  
  The game returns back to the way sonic sounds. The 4kids VA voice hurts this game because the voices 
 are bad. The voice do have it moment where it can be funny but for the most part, it sounds bad.
 
  
  The music in this game is not the best. If you like the 80's rock music and stuff like that, then 
 you will be right at home with the sonic music. If you don't like the music, it will grow over 
 you in time for you to like it but it does not have the best soundtrack for a game.
  
  Extra: 8/10
  
  As you complete mission, you can earn more stuff. Some of this stuff is mostly 
 artwork and extra mini games. Some extra will be easy to get while others are going to be next 
 to impossible to even get. In the end: people have been asking if this game is one of the best 
 or the best 3D sonic games ever made. Sonic and the secret rings is one of the best 3D games, better 
 than the sonic on 360 and ps3 but the game still does it problems from being perfect. If you have 
 a Nintendo wii for now, get sonic and the secret rings. You will be feeling something that you 
 have not felt in a sonic game for a long time, fun with sonic.
  
  Overall score: 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReeceBrown
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 23, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  I gottta say i had buyers remorse wheni bought this game. I was kinda bummed that the levels were 
 just repeating over and over. But the good thing is there was plenty to do in one level. You get 
 to the goal get 99 rings, beat the level in whatever time etc.
  right now i really enjoy it the acting is horrible but still better than sonic heroes. If youve 
 ever watched Sonic X (the TV show) youll recognise that most of the acting is from the show. Not 
 a bad thing not a great thing either. The graphics are stunning in this game. but at some points 
 you wonder if next gen has really come. The music is like the normal american music. The controlls 
 are hard at times not frustrating throw your Wii mote across the room hard.
  I recommend to Sonic Fans, non sonic fans and idiots who dont know who sonic is. This rreminds 
 me of the good old sega days, except a whole lot better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Connor42
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  After Sonic ran into a brick wall on the 360, Sonic is now trying his luck on the Wii. And now, 
 the results come to a fun filled action ride from start to finish, but sometimes, its frustrations 
 can bring it down.
  
  So how do you control Sonic on a new control scheme? You hold you crontroller side ways and tilt 
 the controller to where you want Sonic to move. You push the 2 button to jump, 1 to stop, and you 
 thrust the Wii Remote forward, while jumping, to do an attack. You do this a lot, so its a good 
 thing it never gets old.
  
  With that, you'll be able to choose the levels. Each level consist a certain objective like reach 
 the goal, complete the level with zero rings, or complete the level under a time limit. Some of 
 them are challenging, and some of them can get really fun. The level designs are cleverly design, 
 and some can be frustrating. The levels are kind of based on memorization, and you'll have to except 
 the fact that you 're going to die or fail a mission. But, when you can get through the levels 
 quickly, its a lot of fun. You'll also have some boss battles. Some don't much of a challenge, 
 and some can be down right evil. Every boss has a weak point you have to hit, and sometimes, you 
 have to get on the weak point and shake your controller to hit it.
  
  There's also multiplayer mini games that you can play with up to four friends. A lot of them are 
 fun, and some of them are hard to control. There's a lot of mini games that will probably keep 
 you coming back for a little while.
  
  The graphics in this game are impressive. The Wii maybe last in the graphics race, but it certainly 
 isn't suffering either. The only problem is, most of the cut scenes are done in pictures. There 
 are only two cut scenes that are in full motion, and they can look beautiful.
  
  The sound in this game is pretty good. There's a couple of good songs on it, while others can be 
 down right annoying. The voice acting is good too, the only problem is the dialogue. Sometimes 
 it can be annoying and you'll be glad for at least the people got in to it (probably) .
  
  Sonic and the Secret Rings is a fun game from start to finish. And it has some replay value to 
 keep ypu coming back to. The story has a short coming in the end, but after its all said and done, 
 what matters most is the gameplay. Give this game a try, I'm pretty sure you'll like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrissieGirl
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 22, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Sonic hasn't been doing too great in 3D. Shadow was bad (even I can admit that) , Riders and Rivals 
 was rated as average by critics, and next-gen was labelled as one of the worst Sonic games ever 
 by critics and fans alike so it's not a surprise if people have been wary about this title messing 
 up much like most of the other recent outings. This game promised to bring Sonic back to his roots, 
 but did it deliver?
  
  Yes it did. All the problems that made the other games bad in the eyes of many people have been 
 stripped away (barring the backstep which is sort of a camera problem since you cannot see where 
 you are going) and you are left with the pure speed we know and love Sonic for.
  
  You are given a new way of controlling Sonic; you hold the Wii Remote sideways, tilting the controller 
 left and right to move Sonic left and right. Sonic moves forward automatically unless you hold 
 the 1 button to brake. The more you move, the more speed you pick up, but if you hit something 
 you slow down. Pressing the 2 button enables Sonic to jump, and flicking the Wii Remote forward 
 allows Sonic to use Jump Dash/Homing Attack. There is a learning curve with this game, especially 
 if you are new to the Wii; thankfully there are tutorial stages for you to learn the basics before 
 you begin the actual adventure.
  
  The storyline is simple; Sonic is awoken by a young female genie by the name of Shahra, who asks 
 him to save her world from an evil genie by the name of Erazor Djinn, who is erasing the pages 
 from the Arabian Nights. It appears that Sonic is a legendary blue hedgehog ; hence Sonic travels 
 into the book alongside Shahra.
  
  The game is not an RPG at all but it does have RPG elements. For one, by collecting Pearls you 
 can help gain Experience, meaning that you will level up if you have enough Experience. By levelling 
 up you will be able to use more skills, making it easier to play the game the way you want to play 
 it and gets rid of some control niggles. You can play with speed skills, offensive skills, or dark 
 skills, and there are four rings in which you can assign any skills of your choice to. Two important 
 skills you will pick up are Speed Break and Time Break; enabling you to speed up or slow down depending 
 on your situation in the game. You won't be able to use these two moves however until you unlock 
 the Soul Gauge.
  
  There are eight worlds to play in, one of them being the tutorial stage (Lost Prologue) and the 
 other two being worlds loosely based off of Arabian Nights stories. Each world has approximately 
 12 or 13 missions, including reaching the goal, collecting a set number of rings, completing the 
 stage in a set time, race and beat the wind genie, Uhu, go through the stage without dying/getting 
 damaged etc) and each missions have various ranges of difficulty. These missions give the game 
 that little more replay value and I warn you, the game is more challenging than a majority of the 
 others.
  
  There's also a Party Mode playable, which is fairly similar to Sonic Shuffle, meaning it was semi-based 
 off of the Mario Party series. There are many different features and ways to use the Wii Remote, 
 which uses it to it's advantage. The games are fun, and it's even better if doing multiplayer. 
 There are forty excellent games overall, some of which you need to unlock by collecting Fire Souls. 
 Collecting Fire Souls also unlocks four extra characters for Party Mode; Shadow, Cream, Silver 
 and Blaze. Of course, you only have Sonic, Tails, Knuckles and Amy at first but still more than 
 enough for multiplayer.
  
  The graphics are beautiful and really show what the Wii can do graphic-wise. Not much can be said 
 on that front. The level design is lovely and Sonic looks equally lovely. The cut-scenes are a 
 break from the untraditional pure 3D stuff we saw in next-gen, and are set in book format, since 
 of course, Sonic is in a book. There are generally mixed reactions about the new cut-scene styles.
 
  
  In regards to the music, there are a few good tracks worth listening to, such as Sand Oasis' music 
 though there are some bad or just plain annoying songs, such as the one on Dinosaur Jungle. Therefore 
 the music, like the cut-scenes, is a mixed reaction. Some people like the music, some people find 
 the music to be dull, cheesy or otherwise bad.
  
  Voice-acting? Bad as always. Jason Griffith has made a slight improvement as Sonic, but still, 
 doesn't sound good enough. Sonic sounds like a wimpy wannabe cool guy, despite the fact that he 
 has emotion in his voice now. Shahra's voice actor is Bella Hudson, who's pretty much hogged a 
 variety of female characters these days, including Tikal, Maria, Blaze and Wave. Erazor sounds 
 completely awful. Thankfully though, there's a Japanese voice option for those who would much rather 
 listen to decent voice actors.
  
  Overall, is Secret Rings worth the money? I'd say it most definitely was. This was the boost to 
 the Sonic series that Sonic fans all needed. It's a good Wii game to add to your collection, and 
 shows that maybe Sonic Team can create a good Sonic game if they put enough effort into it. Overall 
 I would recommend this game to anyone. Just be aware that this is slightly more challenging than 
 other recent Sonic games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Volgin13
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Sonic one of the fathers of modern gaming, has finally returned back into his speedy self in this 
 game. Sonic this time is in the world of genies and sultans (with a few known characters playing 
 arabian heroes) . Sonic this time around runs automatically. This may sound like it would be hard 
 to control, but actually he is pretty easy to maneuver around. Sonic can upgrade his ring with 
 abilities (like accelerating quicker or gathering rings with twice the amount) . The controls are 
 so easy that my mom can even play this game fairly well. Sonic has a great place on the Wii and 
 I hope it stays that way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_xii12
Rating: 2.8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is imposible. While if you spend the time to memorize the levels you might become good 
 at playing the game the time it takes to that point isn't worth the 50 bucks i put down for this 
 game. I'm sure that some of the sonic fanatics would like to disagree and I would give some merit 
 to their arguement. The concept of driving sonic with the controler is cool but the majority of 
 the game you steer at all. you let the game run through the levels and you jump everynow and again. 
 Ahh yes the glorious soundtrack. Sounds like they wrote Punk/Hard Rock songs in Japanese and then 
 translated them into English then payed some random guy that's still living in the glory days of 
 his highschool rock band to re-sing them on top the original crappy score. If was to give a letter 
 grade for the amount of real effort that went into the music I'd have to give it an I for incomplete. 
 Sonic team just didn't even try. I apologize to the Sonic team. You convinced me to buy a Sega 
 Genesis in 1992. I just expect more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 20, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Ok here's the deal. Ever since the 2-D games from the Genesis era of Sonic, the 3-D Sonic games 
 have been terrible. Sonic needs to drop the cheese and the little add ons like Adventure mode and 
 just get back to what Sonic does best, tons of speed with easy play control. Can Sonic be re-invented 
 on the Wii? Well yes and no....
  
  You can really feel the speed (if you can get Sonic going) in this game. Some of the early easier 
 levels are really fun because you can speed through it with out pesky slow downs. The graphics 
 are better then past Sonic games on the DC, GCN and PS2. The animation is pretty cool and the lights 
 and darks work well. Plus you can really feel the speed when you get going.
  
  The sound are ok, typical Sonic, although the voice overs are kind of lame, and the cut scene are 
 so boring, just + through them. The music is kind peppy and light hearted, but it attempts to be 
 hard rock and doesn't quite feel like it. Here comes the tough part. The controls. Sega really 
 tried hard to be innovative with the Wiimote controls, but it just doesn't work well. Sonic is 
 always on the move. The only times he stops is if you get the break button off or when he is going 
 to jump. If Sonic stops then it takes him a while to rev back up rather then going back to the 
 speed. You weave in and out of things by moving your Wiimote left and right, you attack (and this 
 is tough) by jumping and shoving the Wiimote forward (violently) . In order to got backward you 
 need to pull the Wiimote back (which is easier said then done) . It takes some getting used to, 
 but the controls aren't as clean as I would like them. Further more, some of the levels are a bit 
 lame, like if you break a bottle the level is over. Aside from the when you get new levels and 
 abilities, the sceens in between are slow. If you're a die hard Sonic fan then this is for you. 
 Maybe if you're looking for something new on Wii then you could pick it up, but then this is an 
 act of despiration. My advise rent it and decide for yourself. Lata' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evertonlad5
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 20, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  I can vaguely remember getting out the SEGA Megadrive, slotting in Sonic the Hedgehog and thinking 
 wow how good is this game. The sense of speed, the fun yet challenging levels. Yet, when I read 
 reviews of the 'newer' Sonic games, I didnt read anything about his famous speed or linear levels, 
 the things that made him what he is today. So purchasing Sonic and the Secret Rings was a bit of 
 a gamble, and did it pay off? Yes.
  
  Sonic and Secret Rings is one of the best looking games on the Wii so far. Put up on a HD TV with 
 480p is great, but not as good looking as Zelda. However it shows that the WIi can produce better 
 graphics than lest gen competitors, but its just up to developers.
  
  Gameplay wise, it has brought Sonic to his roots, a thing that should've have been done a long 
 time ago. To control Sonic you tilt the Wii-mote left and right, and push forward to attack enemies 
 in your way. This works most of the time, but sometimes you could just put the remote down and 
 would still run. However saying that, it still works. Althought the game starts of a bit slow, 
 it speeds up and you can actually start to really have some fun. You can blast your way round levels, 
 gaining medals for how fast you can complete it. There are many levels to work your way through, 
 and is a good 10+ game, that is if you dont play it all weekend. Overall, Sonic is a good solid 
 game that is sorely needed for the Wii at the moment. Its not perfect, far from it but if ever 
 a sequel was made, the game could rival the old SEGA Megadrive game that made us all like the blue 
 Hedgehog in the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNintendoer
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 19, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great game... but it has some flaws to it.
  
  First, the gameplay is great. Instead of having to explore levels, you can just speed-through them 
 and have a blast I thought that the Adventure series was too close to a Mario game, but this game 
 is not like a Mario game. This game is like a roller-coaster thrill! It's not too hard or easy 
 of a game. It's just right in terms of difficulty.
  
  Controls are pretty good; except one problem. Backing up. Man, I wish there was a dang button for 
 backing-up. But instead, you must tilt the remote backwards. Half of the time this doesn't work, 
 and if it does work, you can't see where you're going. So if you're trapped in-between enemies, 
 Sonic will either one, not move backwards and get hit. Two, move backwards and hit an enemy. But 
 you don't have to back-uo too often, so it's not that bad, I guess.
  
  Graphics are great. Very detailed, and the worlds are very different.
  
  Sound is good, but 
 man, the music... I won't say I hate it, but I'd rather listen to Beatles music while playing the 
 game. I guess you could just say the rock and rap and all the music in the game isn't my style, 
 but still.
  
  Multiplayer is good. But with only 40 games, and only like 25 of those which are Mario Party quality, 
 I dunno. Play it with friends sometimes, but don't buy the game for it's multiplayer. I can't compare 
 it to Sonic Shuffle because, well, I don't have that game, nor do I have a Dreamcast.
  
  Overall I would buy this game if you're a Sonic fan. Just don't get it hoping for a good $50.00 
 worth party game. I wouldn't get this as your first Sonic game. If you've never played Sonic, get 
 something like Sonic Rush or Adventure, it's cheaper and a safer way to start the series. That 
 way if you don't like it, you're only wasting like $20.00 and not $50.00. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_mak123
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 19, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  I think Sonic is definately underrated. People actually dont see how good this game is. Lets start 
 off first with graphics. This game has the best graphics for the wii. I have not seen a wii game 
 with better graphics. they are not no ps3 graphics but they are decent. Next gameplay. This game 
 has great gameplay. Once you get the control in your hand it feels natural like you know what your 
 doing. But there are sometimes in the game where the control doesnt work they way you want it to. 
 This can get very frustrating. Especially during boss battles. Do I even have to go into sound. 
 The voice acting is bad but thats expected for a game that uses the anime voice actors. In conclusion, 
 in sonics return its the best sonic game to date. It has great graphics and gameplay but there 
 is need for improvement. This is definately a step in the right direction for the sonic series 
 and also a must own for any sonic fan or wii owner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman_killer7
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 19, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings for Wii is an overall good game. The game itself finally got a good 
 story, and the multiplayer is quite fun. The multiplayer seems sort of a Mario Party mix in it. 
 The story is great, the only thing I, meaning myself, dont like is how he doesnt stop moving.... 
 I know he is Sonic the ultra fast hedgehog or whatever, but come on, he moves no matter what, only 
 straight, you can go back, but you have to struggle to go back. But it does get exilerating at 
 most times, other times i get stuck on a monster because i try to jump on him and it doesnt work 
 and i die, that sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattias838
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 18, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Son ic the secret rings is not as good i hoped for. In this new sonic as you play you dont acually 
 get to move sonic per say. He acualy moves by him self, u only haev to controll him side to side, 
 jumping and braking. though it does grow on you and it is kinds fun when u get to a high speed 
 then you have to be ready for anything. This game is alright to play but if you expect it to be 
 like the classics, forget about it. As for the multiplayer, that is also very dissapointing all 
 you do is play crappy mini games, you dont even get to race other poeple, its like mario party 
 sonic style.... think ill stay with the classics thx. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diamond-Diaruga
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  When the Wii game, Sonic and the Secret Rings was announced, I said to myself Ugh, another 3D Sonic 
 game? . After reading the reviews for Sonic's recent games, I was amazed of how many poor reviews 
 it got. But then I played some and I was like Wow, this is bad . Well, when I got Sonic and the 
 Secret Rings I wasn't like Wow, that was bad , I said Wow, this is AWESOME! . Sonic and the Secret 
 Rings brings the speed back from the original Sonic games, and also brings an RPG kind of style 
 to the game. I thought Sonic the Hedgehog (Genesis) had some great level designs in it, and that's 
 exactly what I thought for Sonic and the Secret Rings. Some cons for the game is that it has very 
 frustrating controls and annoying stages. The Wii doesn't have graphics like a 360 or PS3, but 
 I thought Sonic and the Secret Rings had beautiful level stages. This game is a must for the Wii! 
 It's a great game that you will enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark2th
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 16, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Apparently Gamespot doesn't want me to put paragraphs where I want them to be. It wants to mash 
 up my writing so that it's nigh impossible to read. I have written (PARA) to designate a new paragraph 
 (PARA)
  
  The worst thing about this new era of sonic games is their lackluster presentation. (PARA)
  
 
  2 dimensional sonic games, especially those that came later in the series, gave players beautiful 
 and expansive levels that gelled together wonderfully, and a storyline, however basic, that unfolded 
 in non-verbal character interactions at crucial moments in the game. The old games had a plot that 
 was presented within the gameplay. It was basic, but it felt like the player was a part of it, 
 and not just a passive observer. I love the illustrative style of the narration scenes in SSR but 
 they do nothing to include the player in the action. (PARA)
  
  Voices are the new black in video-games, but they're ineffective. They kill the immersion because 
 a lot of players don't see Sonic as a 13 year old precocious hedgehog. That's not how they played 
 him back in the old days. Back then, to us, he was the speedy, sincere hedgehog, determined to 
 face woe and difficulty in order to protect the natural landscape and its inhabitants from robotnik 
 and his mechanical horrors. At least, that's who he was to me. The fact that he wasn't given dialogue 
 allowed the player to invest a lot of imagination into the proceedings and create for themselves 
 the personalities and intentions of the individual characters. Now we don't get a say in the matter. 
 Ironically, Sonic's transition into 3 dimensions has made his character, and his adventure, more 
 2 dimensional. (PARA)
  
  The soundtrack in the old Sonic games increased immersion. When you were in a jungle you had a 
 jungle-sounding theme. When you were exploring icy caverns you had an icy cavern sounding theme. 
 In the new games, when you explore a jungle, you get an angsty rock theme. When you explore an 
 icy cavern, you get an angsty rock theme. It really kills the atmosphere of the individual levels. 
 There's no sense of wonder anymore. It's all speed this and loud that. Sega doesn't seem to care 
 about how an area feels. They are simply trying to market an adrenaline-kick to a hyped up, ADD, 
 generation of kids. (PARA)
  
  What is sad is, even the speed and wonder that newSonic aspires to is never really achieved. Remember 
 Pandemonium? That did this 'genre' a hell of a lot better. NewSonic puts you on a linear path that 
 isn't quite on rails . You can move a little from side to side, although this control mechanisms 
 often feels awkward, and at other times is completely superfluous. Pandemonium on the other hand, 
 had you on rails, but this gave the player more time to enjoy fighting enemies and overcome obstacles. 
 It surpassed the Sonic games (new and old) because it never, or rarely, forced you to come to a 
 complete halt because of a huge brick wall or a set of spikes in your path. The gameplay was consistently 
 fluid and the camera angle was always positioned so that decisions could be made ahead of time 
 about your movement. NewSonic puts Sonic in a world that is big but not complex. Sure there it 
 a lot of detail, but they're look-and-see details. Many of them you can't interact with. In the 
 2d Sonic games it always felt like the levels were huge, as if there were four or five different 
 paths you could take to get to the finish. This is rare in todays Sonic games. One or two paths 
 at the most for any one, single mission. (PARA)
  
  I'm not even going to touch on the controls. Or the party games. Good lord. All I'll say is, when 
 I press the jump button, I expect Sonic to jump (or prepare to jump in this case) . And the attacking. 
 Oh dear. (PARA)
  
  Sonic used to be a part of a living thriving world full of complex characters, complex scenery, 
 secret passages, bonus levels, beautiful music, and challenging puzzles. Now it is a bland, characterless, 
 unatmospheric, videogame with little to redeem it. If Sega want to reinvent their main mascot, 
 they need to give him a living breathing world in which to race through, they need to find a way 
 to give more control to the player, even if that means taking some superfluous control away, they 
 need to make him silent, or at least less of a douche, so that older players can respect his intent 
 and abilities, and they need to focus on a single player story arc rather than dabbling in useless 
 tamagotchi mini games and awkward and annoying party games. If you're going to do multiplayer, 
 give us split-screen cooperative play. Is that seriously so hard? (PARA)
  
  For the love of God, we want our old Sonic back Sega. Listen to your fan base and read the reviews 
 and give us something that isn't utter tripe for a change. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reidwii1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 16, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  sonic is back and running, after bad games like sonic the hedgehog for ps3 and x 360. and shadow 
 the hedge hog for all consoles [except this gen] . originally sega was just going to make the same 
 game for all the next gen consoles. but they decided to take a big move and use the wii controls 
 in a special way. And thats what they did
  
  GAMEPLAY: the gameplay is intersting, u hold the wiimote sideways giving u a NES feeling, and tilt 
 left to right to move and move forword to do a classic homeing attack. this is fun but sonic always 
 runs ,this i cool, but wen he first starts off.......... he runs slower tha my grandma. but besides 
 that ,its pretty satisfing. plus the mini games r fun and theres alot to chose from
  
  GRAPHICS: the graphics are downright awsome! it uses full potential of the wii graphic power, which 
 is ovious ly not as good as its competitors, but satisfying, which is a whole different story. the 
 land and water is very pretty from an artistic standpoint. the movies though [i wasnt sure wat catagory 
 to put this under] are different , the comic book feel. cool but....... i like regualure cut scenes
 
  
  SOUND: the music is nice, sonic always had the rock n' roll feeling. but the voice actor for sonic 
 has to be different than before cuz he sounds kinda lame
  
  VALUE: sonic fans, get it cuz its the only thing u have since SA2B asfar as consoles go, and sonic 
 rush for ds. for not sonic fans, try it.... but its not very pick up and play freindly u got to be 
 in the mood to play it unlike ZTP an wii sports. worth 50$right now .... but in a moonth or 2 i want 
 to see the price drop
  
  well there u go! go sonic! my name is reidwii1 look me up i need freinds! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 13, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  After years of Sonic games releasing that only help to kill Sega's almighty mascot, this game seems 
 like a Godsend. It may not be the greatest, but it definately is good. Focusing on Sonic's speed 
 and keeping a fixed camera behind Sonic, theres no falling off edges here. Holding the Wii remote 
 horizontally, you control Sonic like the way you control Excite Truck. Thrusting forward to attack 
 enemies, it all feels new and extremely fun. However, this can also be a downfall. Due to these 
 new controls, moving backwards becomes a pain, considering Sonic keeps wanting to run forward. 
 But its not such an issue because rarely do you have to backtrack. On top of the new controls the 
 game gives you the best graphics I have seen on the Wii thus far. It's a relief to see that a Wii 
 game can look so good. Sonic Team also made a smart move on removing Sonic's friends, leaving them 
 only in the mini game mode. If only they could've fixed the cheesy voices and music...... However, 
 that another thing the game hands you; 40 multiplayer games. Definately not no Mario Party, but 
 its still fun to play with another person. Each making full use of the Wii remote. With more games 
 like this, Sonic may be on his way back to reality. Hopefully he can pull off the same goodness 
 from this game and perform it in his 360 and PS3 games as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowlink797
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 12, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Before the release of Sonic and the Secret Rings many people had already given up on Sonic in a 
 3D setting. The string of disappointing games that followed the Sonic Adventure games, seemed to 
 get worse and worse, Sonic 06 being the worst of them all (yes, even worse than Shadow the Hedgehog) . 
 Then Sonic team announced Sonic and the Secret Rings (tentatively called Sonic Wildfire at the 
 time) . The game promised to bring Sonic back to his roots by stripping away all the things that 
 made the previous games bad. The game is basically on rails, giving the player a few options on 
 where to go. This system helped remove a lot of the problems form other games (i. e camera) and 
 helped provide a renewed sense of speed back to the series, however it does come with some problems 
 of its own.
  
  You control Sonic by holding the Wiimote on its side. You tilt the controller left and right to 
 make Sonic move left and right. Sonic himself is always moving forward and will begin to gradually 
 pick up speed, provided that you don't collide with anything on the way. To jump you can quickly 
 press the 2 button, so Sonic can preform a quick jump, or press and hold the 2 button to charge 
 the jump allowing Sonic to jump further or higher. The one button can be pressed to brake. The 
 controls start off a little sluggish, and the time it take Sonic to speed up is quite long, however 
 once you progress through the game you will level up and gain experience points. By leveling up 
 you will also unlock new skills that will improve the controls of the game. The camera in Sonic 
 and the Secret rings tends to follow Sonic and occasionally zooms out to provide a better action 
 shot. This is a big improvement over the camera systems in previous Sonic game, but it does cause 
 some problems as well. Occasionally you will miss a certain object in the game and will be forced 
 to back up to get it. To do this you tilt the remote backwards for Sonic to move backwards. This 
 is when the linear nature of the camera and the game itself will cause problems. When moving backwards 
 you will be unable to see where you are going because the camera will not adjust itself. In harder 
 levels you will find you self hitting enemies or traps while doing this. Not only that but the 
 whole system of going backwards by tilting back is somewhat flawed.
  
  As I said before, Sonic and the Secret Rings allows for the player to level up and gain experience 
 points much like an RPG. The system allows for you to unlock new sills to be assigned to any of 
 the four rings provided to you. These skills will help further advance the game and get rid of 
 most control issues. They will also come in handy when your progressing through the game. When 
 you level up you will also increase the maximum capacity of each ring, allowing for you to assign 
 more skills to them. Sonic will also gain the ability to use Time Break, and Speed Break. Speed 
 Break will give Sonic a huge burst of speed, while Time Break allows for the player to slow down 
 time allowing for them to pass harder sections of a level without taking damage. To pull of these 
 moves you will have to pick up soul pearls that are scattered throughout the levels to fill up 
 the Soul Gauge. Once the Soul Gauge is filled to a certain point (once it turns green) the player 
 will be able to pull the moves off. The game itself is segregated into eight worlds all loosely 
 based off of stories from the Arabian Nights. The worlds are then split up into 12 or so missions, 
 each with their own objective (Beat the Clock, Head to Head, Collect a certain amount of Rings, 
 etc.) These provide the game with some depth, tough some may say that they would have preferred 
 for there to have been more normal levels than different missions, I personally enjoy some of the 
 missions more enjoyable than the regular levels themselves. However there are certain missions 
 that I did not enjoy at all. Namely the Head to Head races. I personally found that many of them 
 were more up to luck than my skill. The missions themselves vary in difficulty with some being 
 relatively easy and others being brutally hard. To tell the truth I enjoyed most of the hard levels 
 in the game and like the challenge in the game, however I know that many others might be turned 
 off by the games staggering difficulty. As mentioned above, Sonic and the Secret Rings' story loosely 
 follows that of the Arabian nights. It starts of with a character by the name of Shahra who approaches 
 Sonic and claims to be a genie of the ring. She goes on to say that a villain by the name of Erazor 
 Djinn is erasing the pages of the Arabian Nights and that only the legendary blue hedgehog can 
 stop him. Yes I know not exactly Pulitzer material but did you really expect a Sonic game to have 
 a good story? So anyways, Sonic accepts to help and is pulled inside the game. There he meets characters 
 of the book that closely resemble his friends and enemies (Tails makes a cameo as Ali Baba and 
 there are others that show up too) . The game also has a set of bosses. With the exception of the 
 first one, all the bosses of the game are extremely challenging and provide a great sense of accomplishment. 
 The boss fights themselves are epic and really enjoyable. They are definitely the best boss fights 
 that I have experience in any Sonic game.
  
  Graphically, Sonic and the Secret Rings truly shows what the Wii is capable of and provides us 
 with a perspective of what to expect in the future. The game starts off with rather modest visuals, 
 but once you progress through the game the worlds become more detailed. The last world is especially 
 gorgeous. Sonic's character model looks quite good as well. People's perception of the music in 
 the game can go either way. There will be those who might not be able to enjoy the game because 
 of the terrible music, those who will take pleasure in the music because it is so cheesy, and those 
 that won't care all that much about it. I found myself to fall primarily in the third category 
 though at times I would consider myself part of the second. Anyway you look at it the music is 
 pretty bad, but in my opinion it is nothing that will take away from the game. Then there is the 
 voice acting. The game offers English and Japanese voice overs. Sonic's American voice is the same 
 one that they have been using since the Sonic Adventure games and the recent Sonic cartoons. I 
 have gotten used to the voice over the years and I have no serious problem with them. There will 
 be many out there that would probably prefer to use the option of switching the voices to Japanese.
 
  
  The game also offers a multiplayer mode similar to the Mario Party games. Players choose one of 
 the initial four characters that are provided by the game (later on you can unlock 4 more characters 
 by doing things in the main game) , and then they can choose from different boards each with there 
 own objective. While on these boards players will have to play through many mini-games ranging 
 from pumping balloons, to various shooting galleries. The mini-games actually add another layer 
 to the game, and I found them to be surprisingly fun. In fact I come back to the game to play many 
 of the mini-games over again. There are many mini-games that use the Wiimote's features in interesting 
 ways. There is one game for example, where your character has many treasure chest to select from. 
 You go to a treasure chest using the D-Pad and pick up the box by pressing the A button. Then you 
 shake the box by shaking the Wiimote, while you are doing this you are listening to the speaker 
 inside the controller to get a general idea of how many coins are in the chest. The player with 
 the most coins in his/her chest at the end of the 30 seconds wins. However there are some mini-games 
 that aren't as enjoyable. Many of the rowing mini-games didn't work all that well and the mini-game 
 where you are rolling a giant boulder is flawed as well.
  
  Overall Sonic and the Secret Rings is a much needed boost to the series. It may have some problems 
 but it will provide a solid experience to those who play it, and is a great addition to any Wii 
 owners library. For those who have played the many atrocious 3D Sonic games in the past, I urge 
 you to play Sonic and the Secret Rings, for this game may instill some hope for future Sonic games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicX18
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  there is no hard parts but if you guys really need help the hardest part i say is beating Erazor 
 Dijnn, the first time... but the second time is easy... i can beat it with my hands tied behind my 
 back... maybe, i wouldn't be able to move the wiimote lol. The next hard part was mabey the robot 
 that comes out of the lava or whatever it is. and it is hard because when he goes down... sometimes 
 i am in the lava and i kill myself. oh! and if anybody need help on a level... i am here to help... i 
 have already beat the whole game and every level on it, i beat it about 2 weeks ago! it was the 
 best day of my life!!!!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hack40
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Well, I love this game as much as I love Sonic Adventure. After playing through his past few games, 
 which were fun... but not as good as he was before. Sonic Next Gen, well I like this game more 
 than this but it was a disappointing game to be honest. Sonic and the Secret Rings on the other 
 hand, isn't much of a disappointment. Graphics- An amazing colorful game with great visuals, character 
 models, and textures. This is a Wii game where it can look very colorful and cartoony. It doesn't 
 look as good as a PS3 or 360 game (In my opinion) but is a very great looking game. If this were 
 on the Gamecube... this would be one of the greatest looking gamecube games (Resident Evil 4 on 
 GameCube is easily the best looking gamecube game in my opinion) . Tbeshe graphics are great for 
 the Wii System. Storyline- Sonic is awoken by a genie named Shahra (the genie of the ring that 
 Sonic gets in the game) when he is sleeping with his Arabian Nights book... Shahra tells Sonic 
 that the pages are dissapering by an Evil Spirit called the Erazor Djinn . Shahra tells Sonic that, 
 according to legend, only a Blue Hedgehog can defeat him. Sonic is the legendary blue hedgehog 
 (Duh) . Sonic agrees to stop Erazor Djinn and he goes inside the Arabian Nights book with Shahra. 
 With a ring in his hand, the ablility to boost forward at high speed and slowing down time... Sonic 
 is ready for the adventure (THOUGH you have to unlock those abilities) . However, Sonic encounters 
 Erazor a bit too early and Erazor tells Shahra to give him the Seven World Rings. Shahra refuses 
 and Erazor fires burning arrow at her but Sonic takes the hit. Erazor tells Sonic that if he doesn't 
 get the Seven World Rings... he will forfeit his life and die. With Sonic's life on the line... 
 Sonic seeks the rings and tries to find out the truth of Erazor in a Sonic Adventure like no other... 
 Gameplay- Awsome, challenging, and fun. The controls are very good but can be a little hard (sometimes 
 in the Wall climbing scenes that are sideways... sometimes I can't make Sonic go faster) . Sonic 
 automatically runs when keeping the Wii mote still, you make Sonic go left and right by tilting 
 the Wii Mote left and right, jumping with the 2 button, shooting the WIi forward to homing attack/jump 
 dash, braking with the 1 button, canceling jumps in mid air with the 1 or 2 button. Then, something 
 that is also cool is the 'Soul Gauge . When it has power, you can do a Speed Break by pressing 
 the D pad up, making Sonic go Super Fast which is awsome as I love the speed in Sonic games... 
 or Time Break, which slows down time. You can stop Speed Break by pressing up on D pad again, you 
 can stop Time Break by pressing down on D pad again. The Wall Climbing scenes aren't so good... 
 but maybe it's because I haven't mastered it yet. The boss fights are amazing... I think they're 
 one of the best boss fights in a Sonic game yet. So the Gameplay is very great. The Flying Pot 
 scenes hurt my arms... but the only time I think they're frustrating are in Pirate Storm... but 
 I could just Speed Break to get through the gate and the rest of the times you use them aren't 
 so frustrating.... actually they suck but I don't don't think they're always frustrating. I think 
 Uhu sucks... but he's somewhat cool as I think flying spirits are cool. You have infinite lives 
 (except for the Diehard mission, where you cannot die) which is cool. Some missions are very hard. 
 I mean... seriously, they can be extremely frustrating. Like the get 99 rings mission on Evil Foundry... 
 okay, that mission isn't hard. It's very easy.. It's just that getting that fire soul is hard. The 
 ones where you cannot get hit are the hardest. I have beat many missions without taking damage 
 and got a gold on them but however the Perfect Challenges, they add stuff to the level... making 
 it harder. I have perfected many missions... but some are way too hard. But yeah I like a challenge. 
 There are some delays when doing the homing attack when the game doesn't respond when shooting 
 forward. But overall, Very awsome gameplay though you can beat the game in a weekend. Sound- Ummm... 
 4kids voice acting... terrible. Sonic's english voice is still bad (he sounds whimpier than ever) , 
 Tails/Ali Baba's still sounds female, Knuckles/Sinbad's voice... which was so-so in SNG... has 
 disimproved a lot. Eggman/King Shayrar sounds great. Shahra sounds pretty good but I think it's 
 lame for Bella Hudson to keep getting the voices for most of the female Sonic characters. Blaze's 
 voice is great, Silver sounds great, Shadow still sounds EMO and too depressed... but still good. 
 Amy sounds annoying but decent at least. Cream sounds like a old lady but sounds cute at times. 
 Erazor Djinns' voice... is so terrible that I keep laughing at it. I thought he would get a slick 
 and cool voice... but SEGA is screwing up with the voices. But you can switch the Japanese voices 
 so who cares about the english voices (I still think Sega should have sticked with the old voices 
 before 4kids) . I think the music is great but the main theme is.... ehhhhh.... okay. But is annoying. 
 It plays so many times. I just wanna mute my TV when that song plays. That song made the sound 
 get a 9. But still, great sound. VALUE- Very great Replay Value. OVERALL- Any true Sonic fan will 
 have to check this out. Sonic is getting to the top again... Sonic and the Secret Rings is a awesome 
 Wii game that is worth the wait, your money, and your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Afros11
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  Sonic &amp; 3D, we know they arn't best mates &amp; they still arn, t now but they are getting to 
 know each other. The developer decided not to worry about the camera angle by fixing it to one 
 view which does suit Sonic but when you make Sonic walk backwards the camera doesn't move so you 
 can see where you are going &amp; you are going blind. Most Sonic games you keep going through the 
 levels &amp; when you complete the game or get stuck you do the extra missions, in this you have 
 do a certain amount of missions before you can proceed to the next zone which superficially increases 
 the games length &amp; you might get confused with the story. The controls are good but they are 
 a little unresponsive. The 40 mini-games don't have much depth &amp; will be over before you realise 
 what you have to do, they should have just put in the usual action race. But besides these flaws 
 a good game shines through, the graphics are easily the best on the Wii so far, the gameplay reminds 
 you of his Mega Drive outings &amp; the sense of speed is still there. This is the best 3D Sonic 
 game ever made &amp; is an essential purchase for fans but if you're looking for a better experience 
 get Sonic Rush. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 14, 2007 3:08 am PT
Review:  GOOD: Fantastic Level disigns and sharp looking graphics; Intresting and fairly long story; Tons 
 of different games to play which are all pretty fun to play; over 40 mini games; uses the Wii features 
 great; Sonic is on his own!
  
  BAD: No cut scenes, all in book type; Controls are abit anoying; not many levels.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
 
  Come one, come all, Sonic the hedgehog has'nt lost his spark yet, so dont count him out. this 
 is one of the best 3D sonic games out. The game was originly gonna be called Wild Fire becuase 
 of the Fire Arrow in sonics chest but Sega has changed it to Secret Rings becuase sonic must find 
 all 7 world rings to save the day.... and himself from the Fire Arrow, by doing so you must travial 
 7 magical worlds of the Arabian Knights and save it from Erazor Djinn, an evil Genie. Sonic has 
 had a massive gameplay change, this time you dont have full control. wich may sound off putting, 
 but this time you hold your Wiimote on its side turning the Wiimote left or right to turn left 
 or right, You use your 1 and 2 button for jumpping and Braking, you need brakes becuase sonic is 
 on rails in this game so you need quick relexes and right timing to use the brake, when jumpping 
 you do your homing attack by simply thrusting the Wiimote towards the TV. When on solid ground 
 turn the wiimote around facing you too reverse. the Up and Down D-Pad is used in this game as well, 
 its for speeding you up making you super fast or Slow down time, this is so you can get pass things 
 that are moving fast you aint able to dodge out of the way quick enough. Theres about 7 levels 
 within the game, each with 1 of the 7 secret world rings, it may not sound alot but its what you 
 do in the levels that makes this game long. its not your avrage sonic game were you do one level 
 and go to another one and another one, in this you must do different task in each level, like your 
 basic one reach the goal, theres collect 100 rings, or try to beat it in a certain time, theres 
 dozens of different task to do on each world, you always start in a different place or a place 
 you hav'nt been befor to make it less repetative, though i gotta admitt some of the Tasks are quite 
 hard. Secret Rings is abit like an RPG, well the Elements anyways, when you've done a task in a 
 level you'll gain EXP and gain Levels, Higher the Level more Skills you can equipped, theres tons 
 upon tons of different Skills to obtain, some too speed you up, new moves, start with rings, hold 
 more Orbs ect ect (Orbs are used to use Super Speed and Slow Down) .
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The gaphics are fantastic, one of the best looking sonic games, well apart from the 360 version, 
 but that was fulled with Framerate drops and glitches, these are sharp and great looking and highly 
 impressive, the level desgins are awesome, from the Arabian castle to the massive floting ruin 
 city there all great and realy realy big with different obsicles, i rate the graphics superb!
 
  
  SOUND:
  Well the thing about sonic games is that theres an awesome part of the Sound and a bad part, the 
 awesome part is the Music, every sonic game has decent music and this one is stopping here, the 
 bad thing is the typicle voice acting, they are pretty good, but not decent, there is an option 
 to change it to the japanesse voices which sounds awesome
  
  OVERALL:
  Overall, Sonic And The Secret Rings is one of the best sonic games to be made and anyone with a 
 Wii must check it out!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pyroven
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  The Sonic series has delivered some not so good games recently, the likes of Sonic Heroes and Shadow 
 the Hedgehog not really giving credit to it's reputation. Sonic and the Secret Rings on the other 
 hand, is amazing.
  I had my doubts about the control system of this game but they've turned out to be very good. There 
 is the odd mistake and they take a while to get used to but, once you do they will become second 
 nature and fit perfectly.
  The graphics of this game is amazing. It's one of the games that shows off the Wii's graphic capabilities. 
 From the water on the first level to a huge room with a transparent floor which you can see all 
 the surrounding stars through it.
  The multiplayer is very good aswell. They've been going for more of a 'Super Monkey Ball' aproach, 
 unlike Sonic Adventure 2 Battle and the others...
  This game is amazing. An unmissable experiance for the Wii. Buy it, BUY IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvader654
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 12, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  This won't be as formal and well done as my other reviews cause I lost most of what I had written, 
 so you are getting the sum up of what I had written. The game is good but for everything it does 
 right it seems there is something holding it back. Having Sonic always moving forward does eliminate 
 some of the camera problems, and random flying off the edges that plagued the other 3D sonic games, 
 but it introduces new control issues. Trying to move backward or any direction that is not forward 
 is a pain to do. Its like the game is always fighting you for control of Sonic. Doing a simple 
 jump onto a platform is hard as hell since you can't control the distace of the jump. To stop you 
 from flying off platforms the game puts small barriers that make you stop completely, its a way 
 of artificially keeping you from dying cause of the forward momentum. Also there is an issue with 
 some moves, like the speed burst off the starting line, for whatever reason its hard to execute 
 consistently. The skill system is surprisingly deep and fun to manage but the problem is that it 
 makes the start of the game very clunky. At the start you have no skills so Sonic is very slow 
 and hard to move around. Many skills you get basically make the controls better; it will take many 
 hours before you have Sonic moving like how you envisioned it. Many people might get turned off 
 before Sonic is moving at super high speeds and has a ton of moves at his disposal. Still the system 
 works, there are so many moves, you can have Sonic set up in totally different ways like speed 
 or attack, its great to plan before a mission.
  
  The game has only 7 levels and one tutorial stage, so don't expect a ton of background variety. 
 To add content each level has a ton of missions, overall there are probably over 150 of them. The 
 first mission is always the run through of the level, just like a classic Sonic game. These are 
 the most fun missions for obvious reasons, sadly it's a very small part of the game. The majority 
 of the game will be spent doing the other missions. There are only about 7 or 8 different types 
 of missions, so they are repeated over and over across the different levels. Some examples are 
 collect X amount of rings, or defeat X amount of enemies, or don't take damage, or collect no rings. 
 Each mission takes place in a small section of the level and is tailored toward that mission. So 
 it's not like you are just playing the same stages with different objectives, its like mini-trials 
 set up within the big levels. They can range from really fun to I want to throw my Wiimote into 
 the wall! Just playing these missions to complete them can be tedious but if you play them to get 
 the gold medal, which means finshing with an insanely fast time, it can be so very rewarding. Each 
 mission has the perfect way to execute it, figuring out that perfect path and performing it is 
 a rush. Like games of old it takes crazy amount of percision and skill to master it. This is where 
 the bulk of the game is for me; you can spend countless hours just replaying missions trying to 
 master all of them. I can't imagine just playing the game just to complete it, it would be boring, 
 seriously just take away a full point from the final score. If you plan to master this game there 
 is so much more for you, the depth of the game becomes apparent. Plus for all your hard work you 
 unlock over 200 goodies that create what is essencially the making of the game, its like unlocking 
 a special edition DVD about this game. The game is massive if you take the time to try to do every 
 mission and get every secret, easily it can take over 30 hours.
  
  The game includes some boss fights, they are all pattern based and overall well done. They do give 
 you one hell of a work out cause many require you to shake the controller like a madman. They are 
 good but not amazing as some people claimed. The story is weird as hell, even for a Sonic game. 
 I do love the way it's presented, like a comic almost. But the voices are worse than ever, its 
 just so cheesy. The graphics are really nice, still nothing that looks like it couldn't be done 
 on a GC but it's like RE4 quality. The music is so crappy and you will hear it over and over again, 
 so much so that eventually you learn to like it, and then you feel like hurting yourself cause 
 you enjoy that crap. There is a multiplayer mode, its like Mario Party. You choose from different 
 styles of games, each share the mini games that make you progress the games. I tried out some of 
 them, some are interesting but for the most part its a not something you will want to sit and try 
 out. Its great for the kids though or someone that strangely loves Mario Party games... Overall 
 I enjoy having full control of Sonic more than this way but I would love to control him in levels 
 as focused as the levels in this game, levels that don't have you flying off the stage all the 
 time. Also I wish there were more full levels rather than having so many missions. But on the flip 
 side of that, these missions are far better than playing as Sonic's crappy friends. So its like 
 you get this game that fixes some problems but brings in others, it's a start though. Again I can't 
 stress this enough, if you plan to just play the game to complete it you won't have the same experience 
 as someone that plays to master it. When you look at the score make a note of that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 12, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  Finally a game worth my time on my wii! I wasn't to interested in this game at all but once you 
 look at the previews your like wow that looks preety sweet! Then you play it and your like hell 
 yah its on! This game has by far the best controllers for a wii game yet! You hold the wii mote 
 like a remote controller and use the buttons to do different things like 2 to jump and 1 to break 
 and such. The wii's special feature is you actual are in the zone with it as you swing your wii 
 mote towards the screen to attack enemy, and move side to side to move sonic across the screen. 
 This controls are the bomb and the only down side to them is backing up can be a real pain sometimes. 
 If you played sonic games before you know rings are your life by collecting them and your goal 
 is to finish the area through racing across it or smoking enemies or speed races and such. The 
 graphics are preety top notch with no blurry images anywhere, but the real thing you will notice 
 is the great music for the area's! The music really gets you going into the mood for speed, along 
 with the awesome sounds in the background. If it wasn't for the poorly done music for the final 
 levels it would of been perfect to. The story is your visited by a genie who needs your help in 
 this book world so you go into this book to save it, which is being destroyed by an evil villian 
 we will say to reduce spoilers. So you must collect these rings and battle through 8 different 
 levels. The game won't take you very long to beat, around 10-15 hours to beat just the main quest, 
 but offers bonus stuff like earning medals for each event, or fire souls 3 hidden in most levels 
 which give you bonus mini games in multiplayer and bonus characters in multiplayer. Would of been 
 sweet if those bonus characters you could use in the main story but you can't sadly. Sonic has 
 had alot of crappy games these days but is back in style for the wii and I guarentee you will enjoy 
 this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StealthBlade100
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 12, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  Sonic may have been gettin some pretty poor reviews in his 3d apperances and u could definetly 
 tell but this time he's on the wii with Sonic And The Secret Rings and happily he's really got 
 it goin on wit this. It's Great!!!!
  
  The Review.
  
  Gameplay: This coudn't get any better. Sonic enters upon a magical world which he has to stop evil 
 [not eggman this time] and u got to collect rings to get on to other levels. This makes it a blast 
 and through the way u meet characters that r references of sonic's friends and that's cool. The 
 game can be frustrating but its still a blast to play!!!!!
  
  Score: 10 out of 10
  
  Graphics: They r drop dead beautiful and great to look at!!!! That's all i can ruly say about that!!!!
 
  
  Score: 9 out of 10
  
  Sound: It sounds excellent and does it's job well and that's the same thing for music. If there 
 was a soundtrack i would buy it!!!!
  
  Score: 9 out of 10
  
  Value: This game is definetly worth your money!!!!
  
  Score: 10 out of 10
  
  Tilt: Superb 
 all the way!!!
  
  Score: 10 out of 10
  
  Overall Score: 9.8 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GabuEx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2007 1:01 am PT
Review:  Ah, now this is the sort of thing the Wii was made for. The gameplay in Sonic and the Secret Rings 
 is very hard to pin down as one specific type of gameplay that gamers are accustomed to, and that's 
 not a bad thing by any stretch. The controls are almost like a racing game of sorts with the pedal 
 permanently put to the floor, in that you use the Wiimote almost like a steering wheel to direct 
 Sonic in one of his endless mad dashes. This game's use of the Wiimote was definitely interesting, 
 in that it was part steering wheel, part old-school NES 2-button controller - it's held sideways 
 in the game - with the 1 and 2 buttons playing the part of the A and B buttons. It sounds weird, 
 but it actually works pretty well.
  
  One slight thing that always grated on me was how much harder it is to get Sonic to go backwards 
 than forwards - if you so much as tilted the Wiimote forwards a little bit, off Sonic would rocket 
 forwards, cancelling out the careful backing up you had been doing. I realize that Sonic brooks 
 no time-wasting, but for the sake of players, they could have made the reverse gear just a tad 
 more useable.
  
  The game contains an interesting experience-level system, which gamers would be much more accustomed 
 to see in an RPG, not in an action/adventure game. Nonetheless, it works well enough. As Sonic 
 gains levels, he acquires skill points, which can be used to equip skills, as well as increases 
 his maximum ring count and soul gauge, the latter of which can be used to unleash awesome powers 
 when full. The developers were nice enough to provide you with four sets of saved skill sets, to 
 enable easy switching between sets depending on what you need to do in a certain level. The usefulness 
 of this becomes more and more apparent as the game goes on, as you'll only be able to equip about 
 half of the skills you have near the end of the game. I personally made use of these by creating 
 an all-around ring, a pure speed ring, and a battle ring; other sets would certainly have been 
 possible, as well.
  
  I must admit that the story in the game was a bit lacking, although, given that it was a Sonic 
 game, that's to be expected - they never particularly are very deep (nor are they intended to be) . 
 Still, I gotta dock them points for this anyway, as I felt that it could have been much more than 
 what it was. The story itself isn't really that much of the point, though (80% of the game isn't 
 even advancing the storyline much) , so having a boring one isn't that bad.
  
  The part where the game assigns you a bronze, silver, or gold medal based on your performance in 
 each level was a very smart move on Sega's part - it makes it so that gamers can feel that not 
 only do they need to complete each stage, but that they also need to complete each stage WELL, 
 which will always encourage gamers to stretch out the game to its full extent, thereby increasing 
 its replay value by a huge amount. Smart move by Sega - but hey, it works, and I, being a competitive 
 sort, enjoy trying to go for those elusive gold medals.
  
  The game was a very beautiful one to look at - Sonic was definitely in tip-top form. The levels 
 were all designed very well, and had a very interesting feel to each of them. Since each level 
 has you do well over a dozen missions in them by the time you've complete the game 100%, you start 
 to get a real feel for each level and its intricacies (which is very important if you want to ever 
 get those gold medals!) . I can't really think of anything to say about the graphics other than 
 well done .
  
  The background music was pretty good, although the rock and roll electric guitar 24/7 thing can 
 kind of get a little boring after a while if you play the game too long. The voice actors... well, 
 they could be better, and were kind of corny at times, but the number of video game voice actors 
 that aren't that way are very, very few and far between, and they got the job done in an okay enough 
 fashion.
  
  The game was, to be honest, a little short in strict terms of its gameplay start-to-end credits 
 time. It's only been a weekend, and I've already completed it (although I still have about one-third 
 of the missions still to go, and from what I've seen, they seem very hard) . So I have to knock 
 off a little bit from the value score as a result. It still is a great addition to any gamer's 
 game collection, but whether you get your full money's worth depends on what you're looking for. 
 If you want an in-depth, immersive game with an expansive plot that will take you days and days 
 to complete, this is not that game.
  
  All in all, Sonic and the Secret Rings has its definite flaws, such as the slightly awkward controls 
 or the shallow plotline, but they're far overshadowed by the fact that, darn it, this game is just 
 plain fun to play. And when it comes right down to it, that's what Sonic is all about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryodude
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 11, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Sonic has been through tough times in his 3D outtings... in many opinions. Now, with Secret Rings, 
 Sonic has a 3D formula more akin to his original 2D days. The game is great for getting reaquainted 
 with the Blue blur and re-learning the meaning of Speed.
  
  The Premise: Sonic is told by a Genie of the Ring, Shahra, that he is the legendary Blue Hedgehog 
 that is capable of restoring the world of the Arabian Nights. An evil Genie known as Erazor Djinn 
 is searching for the seven world rings for something bad (avoiding any spoilers) and is tearing 
 up (literally) the Arabian Nights World to find them. Sonic starts to search for them too for his 
 own reasons. Shahra accompanies Sonic to give him aid.
  
  The Gameplay: You will as Sonic and only Sonic throughout all the Adventure mode. You hold the 
 Wii remote on its side and you mainly be tilting the remote left, right, and backwards. The 2 button 
 is for jumping and 1 is for breaking. Tilting the remote towards yourself results in having Sonic 
 backing up. This is useful for exploration and certain events that require a little precision or 
 manuvering. While jumping, you can press either the break or jump button to perform the Jump Cancel, 
 which sends Sonic straight down to the ground or whatever surface is below him. This mechanic is 
 essetial for some of the precision platoforming you'll be pulling off. You'll also use Up and Down 
 on the Plus pad for Sonic's Two special abilities known as Speed Break and Time Break. Speed Break 
 is hyper speed mode that allows Sonic to move incredibly fast and break through certain obstacles 
 normal dangerous. Time Break is the opposite, Super slow-mo that's good for manuvering around normally 
 super-fast obstacles. The two moves require energy from your Soul gauge, which you acquire a little 
 ways into the game. As you go through the level, Sonic naturally runs forward so, steering and 
 dodging obstacles is your job. Along the way, you'll pick up rings, as usual, to keep Sonic alive. 
 There are also pearls to pick up now, and these fuel the Soul gauge. There are enemies to beat 
 with Sonic's homing attack, which is much more fun to pull off now. You simply hold the jump button 
 to charge up your jump, get some air while a target reticle turns locks on the foe, and then you 
 flick the remote forward when the reticle is red. You can keep it up as long as enemies still stand, 
 making for some fast combat. You can perform the Jump Dash while not locking on to enemies, which 
 helps clear long distances. If you hit the jump button while moving, Sonic slides, allowing you 
 time out jumps for carrying over momentum. While there isn't too much exploration, there are a 
 fair amount of extra paths that yield different items and obstacles. Special Items essential for 
 obtaining unlockables are hidden through out the different stages and their missions, so exploring 
 has substance.
  
  There are 8 stages, one that serves as tutorial and practice with Sonic's controls and skills. 
 The other 7 take place in exotic locals relevant to the Arabian Nights' Tales. Each stage has missions 
 with specific criteria for clearing it. Stages are quite long, and missions occur only in fractions 
 of the stages. There are about a dozen missions per Stage and a good variety of mission types. 
 Tthough most will be repeated between stages, the variety in environment keep things fresh. As 
 Sonic completes missions, you see a score screen and gain experience points. Yes, Sonic is dabbiling 
 in RPG elements. The rationale is that since Sonic in this new world, his abilities function differently, 
 and therefore Shahra will provide him with compensational powers through her Genie magic. Through 
 leveling up Sonic earns new skills, skill points that allow him to equip more skills at once, increase 
 his Soul gauge capacity, and his ring counter limit. That's right, Sonic has a ring limit, which 
 is okay because there are no extra lives, you'll just restart a little ways back from where you 
 fell as many times as it takes. You earn extra points by building your normal score by getting 
 record times, beating enemies, and collecting rings and pearls. Also, Sonic doesn't lose all his 
 rings from a single hit. He'll lose a good portion from hitting enemies and obstacles, but you'll 
 be able to take plenty of hits should you be missing rings during your runs. The skills you'll 
 collect are very appropriate for this game. There are skills that increase your speed and acceleration, 
 make controls more responsive, provide more defense or offense, increase experience collected, 
 and plenty of other special skills. You get four skill rings, or four skill sets, that can be customized 
 so you don't have to hand pick your skills every time before a mission. Skills are actually very 
 important later on in the game because objectives will become easier to clear and will be necessary 
 for acheiving the best time as well as for getting just-out-of-reach items.
  
  The main point is to stick with the game for a while because without proper skills, Sonic is rather 
 lame. He'll start slow and awkward, but with practice and experience (in and out of game) Sonic 
 will prove his heritage.
  
  Sound: One very attractive thing in most Sonic games has been music. This game takes a different 
 approach. While the music is nice and fits each stage to a T, the lyrics are cornier than a movie 
 theater concession stand. You'll either hate it or love it, but it does entertain. The voice acting 
 is nice. The usual English voice actors have been hired and you get the option of hearing the Japanese 
 VA's for a change of pace. While the VA's are a matter of personal opinion, they do a good job. 
 The worst part is that there are some big pauses in major dialouge that make it all seem dissconnected 
 and cornier than it is. Ofcourse, some of the script is just plain awful and cheesy. Sound effects 
 are spot on and don't get much better when it comes to Sonic.
  
  Graphics: This is Wii, so don't think about 1080p or hyper detailed visuals, but this game is crisp 
 and clear. 480p is the max and there isn't anything to complain out it here. The frame rate is 
 solid to the end, environments and lighting look fresh and detailed. Each Stage is 100% distinct 
 and you know exactly where you are. Animation is good, though you don't see much in the way of 
 prerendered works. The cutscenes of the game are illustrated in a comic-book sort with groups of 
 still-shots and minimum animation. The Multiplayer: This isn't the focus of the game. The multiplayer 
 is composed of mini-games Mario Party-style. Up to four players can play and all you need is the 
 remote, no nunchuck. Some games are fun and entertaining while others are filler or half-baked. 
 Some good concepts are introduced, but the games just lack refinement. The Extras: There's a Special 
 book that has pages unlocked through play of Adventure mode. Inside the book is developer material, 
 cutscene viewer, history of Sonic materials, music tracks, and achievment titles. There are four 
 secret characters and quite a few mini-games to unlock for the multiplayer section. And ofcourse, 
 there are all of Sonic's skills to collect and replay of missions for the best time, which all 
 count towards unlocking pages in the Special book.
  
  The bad stuff: There is tons of fun to be had in this game, but there are some flaws that musn't 
 be ignored to ensure an even more successful future installment. The first thing to note is the 
 controls. While they fit perfect for this game, they need refinement. Controls are a little too 
 loose at the start, and even after you acquire skills that fix a lot of it, you'll hit spots where 
 controls don't quite function right. The jumping and breaking are some of the most irresponsive 
 controls when your trying for precision. Grinding can be as equally tricky. Jumping on rails requires 
 too much time to execute, and you can easily miss particular rails when trying to jump between 
 rails. Moving backwards is far too tricky. While the mechanic has its merits, you have too many 
 issue making it a chore rather than an option. You have to nearly tilt the controller upside-down 
 to execute and sometimes Sonic will resume forward motion if you jerk around too much. The camera 
 also stays in its same position, making it hazardous to move backwards without a little memorizing 
 and guess-work. Plus, you can't just keep moving backwards, even if there is ample to terrain to 
 do so. While on the camera, for the most part it's spot on and gives an appropriate view of the 
 action with a satifying sense of speed. Some areas have viems that fall a little shy of perfect 
 and can leave out the detail most needed for a jump or setting Sonic's position. The Lock-on system 
 can seem a little too finicky at times. The Multiplayer wasn't really all that interesting, and 
 no solid racing mode seems like a strange choice. Final thoughts: This is a great resurgence for 
 Sonic in the 3D gaming realm. There is no reason to not try this game, but if you plan to buy, 
 be determined to stick with it. This game pulls off something that few games ever acheive, and 
 that's becoming more fun as you play further. Certain aspects are far from perfect, but with the 
 right support and attention to detail, Sonic has a bright future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whoozwah
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 11, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  This will be more of a critical analysis of the faults of the game rather than a ZOMG!!!11!! one!111! 
 thes game is teh suxxor Here we go:
  
  The Control Scheme
  
  Problem: The homing attack is a disaster with the Wii-mote. It's unresponsive which tends to be 
 frustrating, esp. when you're in a head to head mission and the homing attack doesn't always work.
 
  Solution: Allow an option to map the function to a button on the Wii-mote if it is so desired.
 
  
  Problem: Movement and controls are slow and unresponsive from the onset because you basically have 
 to earn better controls via the RPG-style level system. solution 1: scrap the level-up system.
 
  solution 2: have a difficulty select menu in which different abilities are available by default. 
 Easy would have a nice selection of abilities to choose from at the start and the harder difficulties 
 would have less to choose from.
  
  Problem: Sonic should be able to make a 180 degree turn to go back for things that were missed. 
 The already in place backstep system is convoluted and frustrating.
  solution: allow an option turn around by holding 1 and pulling back. Once turned around the game 
 would play normally until the turn around action was performed again. Thus Sonic gets back on his 
 way to the goal.
  
  Gameplay Progression
  
  Problem: The difficulty is not consistent throughout the game due to the level-up system's implementation 
 I. E. there are some missions early on in the game that are extremely difficult compared to some 
 of the later missions until you unlock abilities. solution: design levels/set goals for missions 
 under the assumption that the player can't go back and retry it with some new ability that wasn't 
 available when the mission was unlocked.
  
  Problem: The order by which missions and abilies are unlocked seems too random/unorganized.
  
 solution: Each mission that's unlocked should be the one directly after the one that was just completed. 
 I. E. Each world should start with a get to the goal mission then proceed through all the other 
 minigames until the player reaches the boss fight at the end. Only after the boss of the world 
 is defeated should the next world be unlocked. Also, the objectives of the next mission should 
 be congruent to the ability that's unlocked once the present mission is complete. That is to say, 
 I shouldn't have to skip a level because I don't have the ability yet that greatly increases my 
 chances of completing the mission within the first few tries. Audio
  
  Problem: Music is sub-par.
  Solution 1: Write better tunes.
  Solution 2: provide an option 
 to turn the music off.
  Solution 3: remix classic Genesis tracks and provide them as unlockables.
  Solution 4: Allow 
 custom soundtracks a la ExciteTruck. Problem: Voice acting is also weak. Uninspired and clunky 
 diaglogue is abound in the game. I was not engaged in the plot due to poor implementation of the 
 storytelling.
  solution: Kudos to Sonic Team for actually providing alternative voice tracks. Overall Design
 
  
  Problem: The game focuses far too much on the side missions. These missions are repetitive at best. 
 They do provide a challenge but it feels like a tacked on attempt at adding replay value to the 
 game. The game really shines in the Head for the Goal levels and it's a shame that we only get 
 a little over half-a-dozen of them.
  solution: Trim the fat. Get down to what sonic was all about to start with. Run really fast, kill 
 baddies, grab rings, make it to the end of the level. I realize that to make a game with primarily 
 2 get to the goal style missions and a boss fight for 8-9 worlds would require a lot of resources 
 and possibly more storage space for content than the Wii's game media can handle but it seemed 
 to work for Sonic Heroes. And yes this would mean that the game wouldn't have 10-15 hours of gameplay 
 but then again it may depending on how long each level was and how many worlds the game would contain.
 
  
  Problem: The Chaos Emeralds are missing. That can be forgiven this time due to the unorthodox setting 
 of the game.
  solution: provided the next game returns to the traditional setting, the Chaos Emeralds should 
 be included as they always have, with the ability to transform into Super Sonic once all are collected.
 
  
  Don't misunderstand me. I like this game. It keeps me playing it and SatSR is a truly fun game 
 in parts but the control mechanics and abilities system need revamping the next time around in 
 order for Sonic to be pristine in all 3 dimensions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socem007
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 11, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  I was questionable on getting this game from the reviews. 7.6 surely isn't too good. But let me 
 tell you, I went ahead anyway and purchased it. I have Zelda, Madden, Cod3, wii sports, and obviously 
 sonic. Zelda is the best with sonic close second. For example id rate zelda 9.5 and sonic at least 
 a 9.2. Pretty much your sonic and you hold your wiimote sideways and make your way through courses. 
 As you go on, you unlock different special moves that really help. The storyline is a little kiddish 
 it is a copy of alladin with sonic built in. The controls are not too hard to grasp. This game 
 is just amazing! I am telling you, if you have any doubts, buy it. Just right now, leave your house, 
 go to your local game store, and buy it. You will thank me later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imranmotala
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  Theres only one way for me to explain this and its woah! Gameplay: 10/10
  
  Amazingly fast and hard to keep track. The obsticales zoom right past you and time break is almost 
 always needed. When you see an opening speed break will save you alot of time. The lvl designs 
 and controls are amazing, the wii mote responds perfectly and i havn't seen a problem yet. The 
 Homing attack is easy and fun to pull off. The obsticals are a good twist, making you use the wii 
 mote alot more.
  
  The lvl up system if my favorite, allowing you to equipt skills that either boost you strength, 
 defence, or speed, allowing you to complete certain missions with ease. I remeber there was a diehard 
 mision i could simply not beat, then after i equipt the power and defence skills, i just zoomed 
 right past it.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  The graphics... what can i say? its just wow, its amazing how even moving at that speed the graphics 
 are still amazingly good. Best ive seen on the wii so far. The opening movie is outstanding
  
  Sound: 10/10 I may be one of the few who actually like the music in this game. Its very catchy 
 and does not get annoying. I usually play this game with the volume loud for the full experience
 
  
  This game is worth your money and is a must have if you own a wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bertesk
Rating: 6.4
Date: Mar 10, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Speed, glitches and the crazy camera were only half the problems that needed fixing  A game for 
 those with a lot of patience.
  
  Sonic games, back in the day, were known for extreme, mind-bending speed. The recent 3D Sonic games 
 have abandoned this for a more adventure style approach but have come with problems (in the form 
 of glitches, lack of speed and a crazy camera) . Sonic and the Secret Rings seeks to remedy the 
 problems of the past 3D Sonic games but the speed that was found so amazing back in the days of 
 old is not worth the problems the core of the series has always had.
  
  Story: 7/10
  In Sonic and the Secret Rings, the entire game is based in the world of the Arabian Nights. You 
 see, Sonic was just randomly reading books one day (because hedgehogs can read these days) when 
 he came across a glowing ring. Out from this ring comes ancient lady genie Sharya who tells Sonic 
 that her world (in one of the books) is soon to be destroyed by the Erazor Djinn. If Sonic doesnt 
 help her defeat him in her world then hell be unleashed in Sonics own world, which wouldnt be 
 very good at all. Sonic agrees and together they enter the book.
  
  Throughout the game youll find familiar faces from the Sonic franchise playing roles of the Arabian 
 Nights tales. Dr Eggman is the king, Tails is Ali Baba and so on. While the story isnt too in 
 depth, a great story for this kind of game generally isnt expected or needed. Its also very nice 
 to see Sonic Team staying away from the modernized worlds and themes as seen in Sonic Adventure 
 however the way the story is executed in general is the cause of such an average score. The so-called 
 cutscenes are nothing more than little comics and pictures flashing about. It would have been much 
 more practical and entertaining if the in-game engine was used, CGI would have been brilliant (if 
 the opening scene is any example) .
  
  Sound: 7/10
  This is your typical Sonic game soundtrack. It consists of rock style themes, which can sustain 
 an entire level but dont loop too obviously. Corny lyrics are also present throughout most of 
 the songs but its not as if youll be listening to them anyway. The soundtrack is perfectly suited 
 to the kind of game Sonic is but doesnt stand out on an epic scale to deserve a remarkable score. 
 The voice acting is great. While the dialogue isnt too serious (thats more story related anyway) 
 the actors do a great job for such an un-serious game.
  
  Controls: 8/10
  Sonic and the Secret Rings uses the Wii-remote well and the controls are definitely easy to remember. 
 Sonic runs on his own, so all you do is tilt the remote left and right (when the remote is held 
 on its side) to control his direction. You press the 1 button to brake and the 2 button to 
 jump. While in the air, you push the controller forward for a little boost and when on ground you 
 can tilt the remote towards yourself to move Sonic backwards. The controls for Sonic (in single 
 and multiplayer) are responsive but when you come across little things, they can sometimes cause 
 problems. An example is the cannon found from the Dinosaur Jungle onwards in single player. You 
 tilt the remote towards yourself to pull the cannon back and then flick it forward to boost Sonic 
 into the air. The problem is that the flick isnt always responsive, so you may find yourself crazily 
 shaking the control to tell the game what you want. The camera does still get edgy from time to 
 time (in some combat situations) but its still a great improvement over what the other Sonic games 
 have done.
  
  Gameplay: 6/10
  As mentioned before, the Sonic games of old had speed. The word speed has been one complaint 
 used by many Sonic fans as the more and more 3D Sonic games failed when it came to fun value. What 
 people dont seem to realize is that the speed that was held in such high regard back in the day 
 isnt very amazing anymore when compared to other gaming achievements weve experienced. Sonic 
 and the Secret Rings manages to get rid of all the most complained about problems of other Sonic 
 games (As Sonic is now constantly running) but creates more of its own, which Ill try to explain.
 
  
  One of the major faults found in Sonic and the Secret Rings (hereby known as SSR) is the lack of 
 original levels. There are about 7 worlds in the game and each with around 20 levels. While this 
 sounds like lots of deep content, it isnt. There are about three or four original levels for each 
 world, which are then repeated with different objectives, enemy placements, etc. So, while the 
 game claims to have the speed of the original Sonic game youll find your fun interrupted by the 
 constant, annoying (compulsory) side quests. There are plenty of unnecessary missions that you 
 have to complete to be able to move on to an original level, such as the Dont break any jars 
 or the Find the Pterosaur eggs. I found myself constantly repeating these levels to a point of 
 extreme frustration, which caused me to question what the point in playing was. Ill admit, there 
 are some very fun moments but they are too far and few in between to be worth playing the entire 
 game. SSR just doesnt have the polish and effort seen in Nintendos platforming titles due to 
 unorganized menu screens and sometimes-dodgy controls. You dont have a solid sense of what youre 
 doing, with missions unlocked for each world in a totally random order and not even the instruction 
 booklet tells you which way to tilt the controller when steering Sonic. Switches to press or things 
 to use don't stand out, and I found myself suffering the Single Player mode just for the Party 
 Mode unlockables.
  
  You see, while Sonic Team failed to produce a thoroughly enjoyable Single Player experience they 
 succeeded very well in the multiplayer aspect. In a very Mario Party-esque fashion, Sonic and three 
 friends can enjoy forty or so minigames, for no story related reason. Each of these minigames makes 
 great use of the Wii-remote (none require the Nunchuck which is another bonus) and its clear that 
 Sega has learnt from their mistakes after a not so great attempt previously (cough, Monkey Ball, 
 cough) . A great example of fun is the High Stakes minigame, which requires you to move with the 
 d-pad and slam the remote down to hammer stakes. It sounds simple, and it is. The controls are 
 responsive and the minigame works, a formula found in all the minigames. Not only are there more 
 than forty minigames but also around 5 different modes to enjoy them in. You have a duel tournament, 
 a Pirate Ship race, a Treasure Hunt, a Library mode and even a miniature board game. I wouldnt 
 be surprised if Sega continued this into its own Sonic Party series because theyve shown they 
 certainly have the creativity and initiative to make a good party game. My only gripes with this 
 part of the game though is that it requires you to collect Fire Souls in the single player mode 
 to unlock certain minigames, and four of the eight playable characters. Also, if you dont have 
 any siblings or friends willing to play then you might as well mark SSR off your to buy list a 
 little harder.
  
  Conclusion
  So as you can see, while Sonic has a great multiplayer mode its not worth buying the entire game 
 for (especially with Mario Party 8 just around the corner) . If youre a fan of Sonic games, then 
 youve no doubt gotten over the 3D problems long ago and will find this an enjoyable improvement. 
 But to anyone else with higher gaming standards, I suggest you look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prattfactor
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 10, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is all what a 3D Sonic Rpg sould be.... But the 100 missions statement is BS. Because alot 
 of the missions are Challenges... Like go through the level without dieing or getting a certan amount 
 of rings...
  Also the stroy is Horrible. Its like the designers had one hour to come up with a story... Its not 
 that great..... and not to mention the cut scenes.... There horrible lets just leave it at that..... But 
 this game is very fun and makes good use of the Wii Key Features... This game isnt the actual best 
 3D Sonic but it is one of the best..... Sonic and the secret rings is a good edition to the Wii 
 Library... And if you have a Wii you should at least Rent It. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nuck81
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 10, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Undeserved Hype is the best way to describe Sonic and the Secret Rings. A control scheme advertised 
 for its simplicity comes off cumbersome and frustrating. The fact that Sonic is constantly running 
 forward leaves your control over him limited and you constantly find yourself running past things 
 before you realized they were there. Also for a character built on speed why does he lose momentum 
 um for jumping? Its like being punished for something you're forced to do.
  
  An even bigger problem is the battle system. The automatic targeting system works fine on single 
 enemies, as long as you haven't ran past them yet, but if presented with more than one enemy it's 
 a crapshoot on which one Sonic will target. On top of that there are situations were you have to 
 destroy a certain amount of enemies in a small area before you can move on. Unfortunately Sonic 
 runs past them, forcing you to back up with no way to see where you are going, leading to unnecessary 
 damage and frustration.
  
  The Sound and Graphics are good, being high end X-box and Gamecube level. The voice acting is embarrass 
 ingly bad, especially the main baddie Erazor Djinn, as well as the dialogue.
  
  Don't believe the Fanboy hype, this is a definite rent before you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merzitar
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings in my opinion is the best 3D game in the 3D series.
  
  Having Sonic on the Wii was a brilliant idea and I thought the controls where great but we'll come 
 back to that in a minuet, first I want to talk about the setting &amp; story:
  
  SETTING, STORY:
  You will find yourself playing through a book named the Arabian Nights playing 
 though all sorts of environments from Desert to Jungle.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Honestly, I can say that the graphics of Sonic and the Secret Rings shocked me... In a good way.
 
  They are awesome, smooth, clean, clear, colourful and the textures where WOW! Even the environment 
 is good graphics which was a bad thing about The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, but of course 
 the graphics of Zelda where awesome but anyway, this isn't a Zelda review is it?
  
  The water is good graphics but not as good as the floor, walls, plants, Sonic &amp; enemies.
 
  I was shocked because when you look at red steel, that game wasn't that long really and the graphics 
 on that where sort of bad as it was one of the first games on the Wii and Nintendo said that it's 
 not going to be competing with Xbox 360 or PS3 Graphics so give it a big 5* on graphics because 
 they are awesome for the Wii.
  
  CONTROL:
  Now, you all know that the Wii has a new kind of control system with the remote and everything, 
 and I bet your saying... How to you control a SONIC game with that weird remote thingy? but all 
 you do is hold the Wii remote on its side, hold it like you would a NES or SNES controller.
  
  To move, you just lave the remote idle as sonic will auto accelerate, to move Left/Right you 
 must tilt the controller Left/Right, to jump you just have to press 2 but while in mid-air you 
 can do the homing attack by nudging/pushing the Wii remote forward fast, a quick jab but anyway, 
 that is the main controls.
  
  I found the controls to be very comfortable, yet very annoying when it comes to certain levels 
 with Grind Spots and a lot of jumping and breaking.
  
  OTHER STUFF:
  Every time you complete a mission, your EXP will raise giving you level ups which result in learning 
 new abilities, trust me it will take a while to reach Level 99 (or 100) as I completed the game 
 on level 30.
  
  People are saying that the game is short, well I can assure that it is not.
  I completed the 
 main game in over 9 hours and I still havent unlocked all the levels AND I still need to get a 
 Gold Medal on all of the missions so the game is pretty long.
  
  The game was a great experience with the awesome environments and the brilliant soundtrack sort 
 of put the game all together.
  
  ------
  Al together I loved this game and if you're planning on getting a Wii, I recommend getting this 
 game as one of your first, along with Red Steel &amp; The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havraha
Rating: 5.9
Date: Mar 10, 2007 2:01 am PT
Review:  Sonic has been floundering these past few years. It's a simple fact that no one can really deny 
 ... the only time the franchise was confident in itself in recent years was when they were making 
 new 2D sidescrolling levels and packaging them under the guise of Sonic Advance for the GBA. Every 
 other venture for the franchise has Sonic feeling simply unsure of himself in game, and the game-makers 
 themselves feeling equally unsure about what the hell they were even doing.
  
  Make a 2D Platformer with 3D Graphics for the DS? How about making free-roaming 3D games like Mario 
 did? No? Hmm ... Take the recent abyssmal excuse for a franchise reboot for the 360 and PS3 almostly 
 mockingly entitled Sonic the Hedgehog , and you have what should have been the nail in the blue 
 rodent's coffin. Despite this, Sonic Team felt they had one more trick up their sleeve for the 
 Wii. In Sonic and the Secret Rings, Sonic FINALLY ...... F I N A L L Y .... finds his rightful 
 place in the 3D Realm of gaming. But leave it to Sonic Team to get something right on the drawing 
 board and then screw up everything else around the initial concept to make what would have been 
 a good game nearly unplayable.
  
  Sonic's most blatant failure that seems to carry over from game to game is retched story. Sonic 
 is very popular with fan-fiction .... probably singularly because the REAL STORIES behind Sonic 
 games sound like abyssmal fan-fiction themselves. The new Sonic the Hedgehog ruined itself by trying 
 to take itself too seriously .... trying to put Sonic into the real world and giving him an implied 
 relationship with a human princess.
  
  Sonic Team seems to totally miss the most obvious facet of their franchise -- its a cartoon. The 
 entire art style of their characters are cartoonish. Hence, putting realistic characters in them 
 makes about as much sense as .... well .... Space Jam did.
  
  Sonic and the Secret Rings, HAPPILY, goes into the other direction. It's not rediculous enough 
 to think that Sonic is a real ... creature of some kind. It KNOWS he's apart of a story. What went 
 wrong ... is that suddenly Sonic Team isn't taking the story behind Sonic seriously ENOUGH, as 
 now Sonic is the legendary blue Hedgehog destined to save the world of the Arabian Nights tale 
 from being erased by the evil genie Erazor Djinn. .... yes. On top of that, other Sonic characters 
 make cameos as characters in the book, which doesn't even make sense to Sonic, and is never explained. 
 The story is so rediculous even the character of Sonic is made out to look like he thinks everything 
 that's happening is retarded ... which really makes the player want to play the game even less.
 
  
  Gameplay wise ... Sonic seems to start out on the drawing board fantastic. By putting the camera 
 low and behind Sonic and putting the game on rails, Sonic and the Secret Rings is set up to be 
 the fastest, most satisfying Sonic game ever made! .... leave it to Sonic Team, then, to put every 
 single obstacle possible in your path, slowing you down, and as Sonic propels himself and takes 
 an AGONIZING amount of time to speed back up to even a trotting pace ... Sonic and the Secret Rings 
 is suddenly raped into being just as slow, cumbersome, and uninteresting to play as any other recent 
 Sonic game. For a game that's supposed to be FAST PACED and FLUID, Sonic Team went out of their 
 way to screw up what should have been a flawless formula. Hell, there shouldn't even BE a brake 
 button in a Sonic game ... a game all about speed ... but yes, there is ... which forced them to 
 put grind and jump into one button, which causes havoc with timing jumps into the issue of avoiding 
 potentially-slowing obstacles. And when the fact that just the ACT of jumping slows Sonic down 
 .... what the hell kind of point left is there to playing a fast game that never gets fast?
  
  It honestly seems like level-designers / gameplay mechanics worked on the game without ever 
 talking to eachother once, because everything that Sonic can do is nearly useless in a level (like 
 stopping and backing up) , while every level is filled with nearly unavoidable, damaging obstacles 
 that will keep you from completing your objective and progressing through the game.
  
  On top of that, the entire way the game is laid out is horrid, as levels are not necssarily about 
 reaching a goal, but are intsead actually missions , in which coins have to be collected, goals 
 have to be reached without breaking pots or damaging enemies or some other rediculous almost impossible 
 feat, genies who travel much faster than you and are immue to the unavoidable obstacles must be 
 beaten in a race, running throughout multiple-pathed levels trying to find eggs and matching them 
 up with their appropriate nests .... which just is a rediculous idea for a rail game anyways .... 
 all of these things randomly unlocking new worlds that will have you jumping back and forth from 
 different missions .... which, if you ARE trying to follow whatever abysmal story is actually present, 
 it will make it that much harder to understand what in god's name is even actually going on.
  
  Graphics wise, Sonic and the Secret Rings is very impressive. It may be the most graphically 
 impressive game out on the Wii right now, thanks in part to Sonic Team chosing the tried and true 
 Ageia Physx engine, which definitly gives a meaty, realistic feel to everything rendered. What's 
 NOT done well, however, is some of the textures, which while may look pretty decent on some character 
 models, will look merky and indistinct on environment objects. The heavy aliasing on 480p HD-TVs 
 will make the game seem incredibly unpolished at that. Nonetheless, the graphics are one of the 
 few things Sonic Team actually gets right in making this game.
  
  Sound wise, there are lots of sound effects that are pulled off pretty well, including a roaring 
 dinosaur or two who are legitametly frightening (.... was there even dinosaurs in the Arabian Nights 
 book? Hello?) and the banter being Sonic and his genie guide mid-level, mixed with cinematic camera-angle 
 changes, give a pretty neat feel to the game that you wouldn't expect from a platformer, especcially 
 a Sonic one. What's dissappointing is that the English voice-over is just as horrid as any other 
 Sonic game you've probably played. The usual actors seem to have their roles down pretty well, 
 though their delivery may simply seem unfitting for what's actually going on (which is usually 
 the voice director's fault) . The newer voices though, most noticably the voice of Erazor Djinn, 
 sound like average people taken off the street and asked to read a few lines as menacingly as they 
 could. The game gives you the option of listening to the Japanese voice work instead ... but I 
 mean .... it's in Japanese. So ... The final urk worth noticing in the game is the RPG additions 
 to Sonic, as he gains XP and levels up , to unlock new upgrades that have to be chosen and rechosen 
 before each level is played. It's not a bad thing that Sonic improves as he progresses in game 
 -- what's annoying is that only specific abilities can be chosen at a time, which just makes the 
 game more frustrating than it already is.
  
  Sonic and the Secret Rings will, in the end, appeal to anyone who's idea of a good time is dying 
 over and over and over and over and over again wondering how in god's name any of what they want 
 you to do is even remotely possible with the bad level design and poor controls included in what 
 could have been a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsguy464646
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 9, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is an amazing achievement. The sense of speed is an amazing thing, especially when 
 you can go faster than normal. The jumping puzzles are much more enjoyable than previous games. 
 Homing attacking feels great, when you thrust the controller, you thrust torwards the enemy. The 
 Wii was the right console to put a game like this on. Not only that, but the skill system is very 
 fun. 102 skills in all makes for some tough choices, especially at the middle levels. Generally, 
 I've always thought sonic games were simply the same every time. This game proved that untrue, 
 in a very good way. I've done gold medals in many missions already, and I am addicted. If you have 
 a Wii, pick this up if you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamjustin
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 9, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Ah alas, we have been plagued by a horrible string of bad sonic games. The original two Sonic Adventure 
 games on the Dreamcast were great but the ones that followed on the consoles (remake after remake) 
 were just terrible.
  
  Especially the newest addition on the Xbox 360 and the PS3.
  
  Sega just didn't get the fact that it's the speed that makes Sonic fun, until now. Enter Sonic 
 and the Secret Rings, the newest Sonic game released on the Nintendo Wii. This game features only 
 the famous blue hedgehog as a playable character (minus the minigames) and returns him to his fast 
 flying, thrill giving, heart pounding, adrenaline pumping speed that we all came to love him for 
 in the first place. You control sonic by tilting the Wii remote sideways and tilting it in certain 
 directions to guide sonic through the colorful world of the Arabian Knights. The gameplay is wonderful 
 but, as any Wii game, it definitely takes some getting used too. The motion sensing is put to good 
 use; flicking the remote forward (while in mid-air) performs the homing attack and during boss 
 battles it is used in a variety of different ways. The only real problem with the gameplay is that 
 you may not be as fast as the game is all the time and, therefore, you will die plenty. But after 
 you play for a few hours you will become quite accustomed to it that you'll be a pro.
  
  Sonic and the Secret Rings looks absolutely fantastic (especially in 480p) . Every level is constructed 
 beautifully, the colors are vibrant, the framerate is silky smooth, and the character models are 
 excellent. The game also sounds great, despite it's cheesy (yet effective) rock soundtrack.
  
  This game has redeemed a very long chain of bad Sonic Games and has won my approval hands down. 
 I've loved Sonic since the very beginning and this game truly brings back how I used to feel when 
 i played my Genesis. Bravo, Sega. Bravo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khron0248
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 9, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  the control can be sketchy at times, but overall works well. the game is a great looking game and 
 incredibly fast. although its a 3d game feels more like a 2d game because its somewhat linear (like 
 sonic should be) . i take it over the ps3/x360 sonic any day. multiple goals per stage makes gameplay 
 interesting each time you play, allthough sometimes some missions can be redundant or frustrating. 
 cheezy sonic-the-hedgehog-rock music (you know what i mean if youve played SA2) . liked the approach 
 with the arabian nights theme, though the story is one fit for a 7 year old, maybe 8. beautiful 
 landscapes as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendofreak92
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 7, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings is a good game if all you want is speed and not a lot of freedom to 
 explore. I like the old sonic games where you could explore every inch of the level from top to 
 bottom but with this game thats not the case. The graphics are really nice and have a lot of detail. 
 The enemys have a lot of detail put into them but they all kind of look the same. The multi-player 
 mode is what I like the best. You can play with the computers or with 3 other friends. Most of 
 the mini-games remind me of Mario Party and if you are a big fan of those games then you will enjoy 
 these mini-games. The game is a lot of fun to play and once you get into it, its a little hard 
 to put down at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigcalkenobi
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 7, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  After all the crap After all the crap Sonic games that have come out in the last 5 or 6 years, 
 I had just about given up on the franchise. In fact the last desent Sonic to come out was the first 
 one for the dreamcast. After all the crap, decided this was worth a rent. Well I was suprised to 
 see that this wasnt the same Sonic that has been made in the last 5 or 6 years, this was new and 
 actually fun, yes fun Sonic. This is what could be the start to making the franchise good and awesome 
 again. This game may not be the greatest game ever, but for Sonic it is quite an achievement. Everything 
 from the grahics to the game play is good (other than the really crap sound and nonexistant cutscenes) . 
 One of the high points for this game is suprisingly the graphics. They even look a step up compared 
 to the horrible Xbox 360/PS3 versions. The envirnments are very colorful and well designed. They 
 have some really nice looking things in it. It is probably the best looking Wii game out. Sonic 
 himself looks really good compared to his previous incarnations.
  
  The gameplayis very diificult and fun at the same time. It can sometimes get a bit frustrating, 
 but it still is really fun. You get the sense of speed taht the original brought us.
  
  The near downfall of this game are 2 things. The Cutscenes (which are kindve like red steele cutscenes 
 or comic books with voices) . The other is the horrible, I repeat horrible music and sound. The 
 music sounds ike it came out in the power rangers era and also sounds like it was on a slightly 
 higher buget. The voices are crap. They sound like they went and found an 18 year old hobo off 
 the street to voice. I think this game would been better off with no voices or story seeing as 
 the story itself is ridiculously cheesy. It is like a story writtne by a 10 year old author. Its 
 really crap. So the near downfall of the game is the sound story and cutscenes. Luckily the really 
 fun gameplay makes up for that.
  
  This game really revamped and will hopeflly save the franchise if Sega decides to head in the same 
 direction in which Secret Rings was made. So this is a great rent and youll like it if you can 
 ignore the horrible cutsces, sound and story. Believe me the gameplay and graphics is pretty good 
 to make up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: web966
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 6, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings is a major improvement over the past 3D sonics. That statement doesn't 
 mean much since the past 3d sonics have sucked so hard. Secret Rings is half a racing game and 
 half a platformer. Sonic is always running and you just control his direction. This makes the game 
 feel very similar to sonic's 2D outings. The game is very fun when it works but can get extremely 
 frustrating at times. When moving backwards the camera doesnt move, which means that you can not 
 see what is coming at you. This caused me to accidentally walk into enemies or spikes on many occasions. 
 Another annoyance is that you have to do the same level over and over again to get to the next 
 one. The music and voice acting is terrible, which is no surprise since its a sonic game. The graphics 
 are some the best we have seen on Wii yet. Sonic looks great and so does his suroundings, especially 
 in the later levels. Sonic and the Secret rings is a good game, but it does have a bunch of problems. 
 Hopefully there will be a sequal that will fix these problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomboy101
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2007 4:19 am PT
Review:  Don't stare at this one like it's just another attempt into bringing sonic into the real world. 
 For once, in a very long time; you can only play as sonic unless its party mode! Sonic and the 
 secret rings is truely my favorite wii game so far. Sonic next-gen just did not reach the point 
 I wanted for the next gen sonic games. First of all, in the main game setting on sonic and the 
 secret rings you will only play as sonic. You have four skill rings for customization as you gain 
 new skills and experiance points. You play the role of none other than sonic, this time you are 
 trying too help a genie known as Sharah, save the land from the Arabian Nights from the evil genie, 
 Erazor. You will go through several stages as you gain experiance, skills, and fire souls. The 
 fire souls play a big role in unlocking new things as you go through the game. The whole game is 
 huge and you won't be beating it in a day; racing challenges, boss battles, rampages, ring collection, 
 stealth challenges, scavenger hunts, and even the old fashion get too the goal. Just some of the 
 many modes you will use too pass the levels you will be assigned too. As well as rings, you have 
 pearls for a soul gauge, which will appear in time. This nifty skill alows you too either speed 
 up sonic, or stop time which almost sounds like a chaos emerald abilty. I reccomend you try this 
 game before giving up on sonic all around. Sonic next gen wasent that good, it was still too seperate 
 from being a sonic only game. This is differant; the only time you will play as other characters 
 is when you play multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hypershadow85
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 5, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  I had pretty high hopes for this game. I played Sonic Next Gen, it was alright, not as bad as they 
 say, but not great either. At the time, I thought that game had terrible controls. After playing 
 this, one could argue these are worse. Sonic controls left and right by tilting the Remote, but 
 he does this way too slow. I'm told that late into the game you get some ability that speeds it 
 up, but I shouldn't have to wait for good controls. The motion sensing is not too good sometimes 
 either. I'd say almost half the time I try to do a homing attack, it doesn't work. This is extremely 
 frustrating, as can be trying to go backwards.
  Some of the missions in this game are way too hard. Usually a game being harder is a good thing, 
 a bigger challenge, but that isn't the case here. These are just unecessarily difficult, which 
 is made worse by the shoddy controls.
  The graphics in this game are pretty good actually, but the crappy still picture cut-scenes take 
 away from the experience.
  Which brings me to another fatal flaw with this game. The presentation is terrible. Even ignoring 
 the somewhat stupid storyline and the lame dialogue, the game is told through stupid cut-scenes 
 that don't ever give me much of a reason to keep going through to save a fairy or something.
  The multiplayer seems okay.
  The sound in this game for the music is not too good. The tracks 
 are annoying as hell sometimes, and they all have vocals. The sound effects are fine though.
  
  Overrall, I would suggest picking up Sonic Adventure 2: Battle instead of this. You can still 
 play it on your Wii, without stupid controls, and for a fraction of the price. Maybe rent this 
 game, but don't rush out and buy it like I did, you'll regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honestgamer
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 5, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  The rumors are true: Sonic and the Secret Rings is truer to its two-dimensional roots than any 
 Sonic game in recent memory and is the best in the series since Sonic Adventure. Though the worlds 
 are three-dimensional, speed prevails. Playing it means rushing forward almost constantly, under 
 crumbling architecture and around spike traps, along the side of sinking pirate ships, down the 
 back of monstrous dinosaurs and through snow-covered ruins. Youll springboard off enemies, fly 
 from catapults, surf down rapids on logs and even race along an ethereal trail through the sky. 
 Sonic is back.
  
  Speed and chaos are so integral to the experience that you actually have to press a brake button 
 if you want to stop and catch your breath. Some might suppose that means Sonic and the Secret Rings 
 is just a glorified racing game, but thats simply not true. Though the perspective remains perpetually 
 behind Sonics back (a fact removes most camera issues) , you cant merely dodge and weave your 
 way to the finish.
  
  Suppose youre racing along a patch of dry land while around you, wind-tossed ocean waves pummel 
 the shoreline. At sea, pirate ships fire cannons. Molten geysers erupt from the soil ahead of you 
 as shrapnel finds its mark. You dodge explosive blasts then leap into the air to avoid a spike-covered 
 ball. An enemy materializes in the air ahead of you. He flashes green, then red. You launch forward, 
 a whirling blue ball. The enemy shudders as you strike it and you rebound upward before landing 
 on a new ledge and rushing forward again to the oceans shore. Ahead, a rickety boardwalk extends 
 toward a ships wreckage. You leap into the air, exhilarated by the preceding rush. Too late, you 
 realize youve leapt too far. You sink into the sea and everything crashes to a halt.
  
  Sonic and the Secret Rings typically feels like writing in cursive without going back to cross 
 the Ts and dot the Is. Since the whole game is designed with speed in mind, exceptions jar. 
 Even the control scheme doesnt accommodate them. Unless youre pressing the 1 button, Sonic 
 runs in whatever direction you have the Wii Remote tilted. Even when you press and hold the 2 
 button to leap over a wide gap, he keeps running until you release it. Speed is king and you suffer 
 whenever you have occasion to halt.
  
  One of the games later boss battles highlights that point. As you face off against Ifrit, you 
 must run circles around him while explosive barrels careen toward you and he fires beams from his 
 eyes. To defeat him, you must strike his fingers with airborne homing attacks, only staying in 
 one place long enough to hit all three proves difficult when slowing to a stop takes so much effort. 
 What could have been exhilarating is tedious instead. Youll be cursing Sonic and his blazing speed 
 the whole time.
  
  Thankfully, there are ways to tone things down. Every time you finish a stage, you earn points 
 for your performance. The game factors in how quickly you finished and how many spirit points you 
 collected. As the points build, you gain levels. These earn you new skills that can be attached 
 to one of four rings you carry. When you begin a stage, you get to pick which ring you want to 
 equip. If youre going into a boss battle like the one with Ifrit, you would choose one that allows 
 you to stop more effectively. If youre looking to try your hand at a race against the clock, youd 
 want to accentuate your top speed while running and sliding. This customization alleviates some 
 of the games issues, but it cant entirely erase the fact that the game punishes you for slowing 
 down when some areas actually require it.
  
  Some may also dislike the games Challenge system, which replaces the unwieldy level hub you 
 might remember from games like Sonic Adventure with something more efficient. The new structure 
 works like this: when you first begin playing, theres one world available. It contains a single 
 challenge. Once you complete that one, new ones become available. The game progresses as you satisfy 
 the requirements that make new worlds available. Less than half of the challenges are required, 
 and completing them gains you a new scrap of the story. Optional areas only reward you with more 
 points toward skills and unlockable content in the Special Book. Theres not really any way to 
 be sure which areas will advance the story and which ones are there simply to test your skill, 
 so those playing strictly for the narrative are frequently frustrated.
  
  The plot is somewhat unexpected. Sonic finds a genie who tells him that he is the prophesied hero 
 who must save her world. She is from a mysterious book. A powerful being called the Erazor Djinn 
 lurks within, burning precious pages. Once he has turned everything crispy, hell gain the power 
 he needs to break free from his prison and terrorize Sonics world. As a prophesied hero, Sonic 
 does what any good hedgehog would; he wishes to be taken inside so that he can defeat the villain. 
 Along the way, hell need to collect seven secret rings with help from familiar faces in new roles. 
 If you ever wanted to see Tails in a turban, nows your chance.
  
  Naturally, plot isnt the real reason to play the game. The sense of speed is what brings you back, 
 long after youve read and forgotten the typically uninspired narrative. Theres also a lot to 
 unlock during and after the main adventure, including artwork and videos and chunks of the plot. 
 Sega even threw in mini-games for you to play with your friends, but theyre really just a distraction 
 from the satisfying main course. Theres definitely room for refinement, but if you can tolerate 
 the occasional moments where Sonic and the Secret Rings stumbles and stalls, youll find one of 
 Sonics greatest adventures to date. Sonic is back, and its about time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baller4444
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 4, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. Anyone who is looking for a fun action/adventure game that will last than 
 this is the game for you. There are Eight Worlds in this game and each world has about 20 missions 
 to complete. For every mission there is a medal you can recieve gold being the best. The Gameplay 
 is great and the controls are awesome. This game use the motion controls to attack and to move 
 side to side. The buttons on the Wii remote are used mainly for jumping and braking. This game 
 is very fast and a load of fun. There is also are a great party mode with lots of minigames for 
 when friends come over. Overall this is my favourite game on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajr101
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 4, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  First off I rented this game and i found it to be pretty good. The story is pretty much stupid 
 and i don't really pay attention to it anyways. I'm not gonna just ramble on though, so heres the 
 review. Gameplay: Well this game is on rails, If you don't know what i mean, it means that you 
 don't make Sonic go. He runs by Itself. You move him by, first holding the controller like a regular 
 controller, then you slant it down to the left to make Sonic go Left and slant it right to make 
 him slide to the right. The 1 button is for stopping and the 2 button is to make him jump. Also 
 when doing a homing attack you shake the wiimote forward and it should do it. I haven't had any 
 problems with homing attacks. But sometimes, when you have to go in this flying pot thing it gets 
 kinda unresponsive. Also because Sonic is always going straight, you might run by a bunch of enemies 
 you need to kill. This is very frustrating, because you can't turn him around, you have to tilt 
 the wii remote towards you and then he will walk back, you eventually get a skill that allows him 
 to jump back making it faster. But still after this happen over and over again it gets very annoying. 
 Other than that the controls work pretty good. Graphics: Now the graphics for Sonic and The Secret 
 Rings actually are not that bad. I think that it is one of the best looking games on the Wii currently. 
 I mean the landscapes look great and the character models look fine also. Although in party mode 
 i did notice that the character models did look a little more sluggish. Sound: This is probably 
 my biggest and most noticable problem with this game. The music..... lets just put it.. sucks. I 
 almost want to turn down my speakers because it is SO annoying. Also the character voices arent 
 that great either. I can't even tell if its the regular sonic voice because it certainly doesnt 
 sound like it. The game also has the traditional noise of the rings as your grab them, and of course 
 the cheesy and unimportant lines. Play the game and you will hear them. Value: I think that this 
 game could last you quite a while with its many challenges and 8 worlds. And if your hardcore you 
 will be wanting to get a gold medal on all of the challenges and i can't get past a bronze, so 
 good luck to you people. It also has a multiplayer party mode. Where you can play a bunch of random 
 minigames sort of like mario party. WARNING: please do not expect them to be as fun as mario party 
 games because One: there aren't that many, and Two: they get really boring after playing them 3-4 
 times. But take this as you will.
  
  Tilt: I for one a long time Sonic fan will not make this a purchase after i return it to Blockbuster. 
 I will probably Rerent it so i can beat it though. The only way i could ever reccomend a purchase 
 for this game is if you are a Sonic veteran which i am not, so yea you crazy sonic fans buy this 
 now, i think you will enjoy it. On the other hand, people like me, i really think you should rent 
 this game. It will last you possibly a week, and if your a sonic fan you will enjoy. As i said 
 before i cannot reccomend this as a purchase but please by all means rent it, take up some time 
 with it. Someone Once told me that its the little things that matter, apparently Sega did not understand 
 this when developing Sonic The secret Rings with all of the annoying things such as, having to 
 walk backwards constantly, horrible music, picture still scenes, annoying voice acting, and sometimes 
 unresponsive controls. These were the things that hold Sonic and the Secret Rings from being a 
 Sonic Classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fon1988
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 31, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings brings Sonic's trade-mark speed back to the series better than any attempt 
 Sonic Team has ever created in their past 3-D Sonic games. What was once an extremely fast series 
 began to get slowed-down to a near hault due to buggy controls, awkward camera views, slow characters, 
 and just not enough game-time with Sonic. Secret Rings builds upon the nature of the 2-D games 
 by offering up a journey that has players in control of only Sonic where he is in constant motion, 
 unless you tell him other wise. This in all honesty, is the best 3-D Sonic game to date, but it 
 is very far from being perfect. The story line is sweet and simple this time around, and has alot 
 of humor that has been lacking from the Sonic series for some time now. Sonic acts exactly how 
 he's supposed to. He's kind hearted, serious but never lets things get to him, always finds the 
 best path out of any situation and never puts himself before others and is just down right a speed 
 demon. The story begins with Sonic being awoken by a genie of the ring named Shara who comes from 
 the story book that Sonic was reading . She tells him of an evil genie named Erazor Djinn who is 
 destroying the arabian nights quickly and once he destroys all one thousand and one of them, he 
 will enter Sonic's world and begin to destroy things there too. Sonic can't let this happen so 
 he ventures into the story book to help this young genie but is quickly shot in the chest with 
 a flame by the Erazor Djiin. The shot of flame was originally intended to hurt Shara but Sonic, 
 noble as he is, jumps in the way and takes the hit. Erazor Djinn explains to him that Sonic must 
 collect all seven world rings and deliver them to him before the flame dies out or his life will 
 be forfeit. This is where our journey begins. Gameplay wise, this game is fast and down right fun. 
 The controls take a long time to perfect but the more you play, the better you will get and you 
 will definitly notice the improvements. The basic concept of the game is that Sonic is always running 
 and it's your job to steer him through the various stages and also perform jumps and other abbilities 
 like time-break and speed-break. You can press the one button to come to a stop, tilt the remote 
 backwards to make him reverse, flick the controller forward to do a homing attack and much more. 
 There are seven stages to go through, each consisiting of a number of missions that range from 
 getting to the goal, racing, collecting rings, killing a certain number of enemys, not being hit 
 and so on and so forth. The problem here is that enemys will frequently appear in front of you 
 and give you less than a second to jump and do a homing attack before getting smacked in the face 
 by it. There are also numerous occasions where you will have to slow Sonic down to cross a tiny 
 ledge or avoid giant death spiked balls. This is very frustrating when all you want to do is run 
 as fast as you can, and it's made even worse because throughout the course of the game you will 
 level Sonic up and he will gain abbilities that can be equipped on one or all of the four of the 
 skill rings that you can choose from before each stage. It's best to equip one ring with speed 
 moves, one with defense, one with offense and one with whatever you want in order to complete different 
 mission types. Some missions may ask you to not get hurt, and when enemys come out of nowhere, 
 you don't want Sonic equipped with alot of abbilites that will make him run head on extremely fast. 
 Others may ask you to race Uhu, a little fairy that is pretty fast so of course you will want to 
 have alot of speed to do this. It's just a shame that there are more missions that have Sonic slowing 
 down than there are with him just flat out running at top speeds, which is the whole reason that 
 Sonic games are fun in the first place. Backing up proves to be one of the most absoloute worst 
 frustrating parts of this game and unfortunatly there are multiple times where you will be forced 
 to back up, even when you get used to this, it's still just an overall pain to have to do this. 
 Graphically, the game shines in all aspects. No it doesn't have the beauty of the 360/PS3 Sonic 
 games, but it's faster and has no frame-rate problems what-so-ever. The enviorments are lush, and 
 they all have a certain atmosphere in them and this is truely a graphical stand point on the Wii, 
 proving that it's not just barely above current gen systems anymore. Sonic sports his looks back 
 from the Adventure games and has never looked better. From the flame on his chest to his trade-mark 
 shoes everything looks great and that goes double for everything else in this game. It's the prettiest 
 Wii game to date. Sound wise, the game doesn't get a good treatment. Everyone of the levels has 
 lyrics in the background and sometimes they are just awful. In a few cases the music is so bad 
 that it's good, as is the case with the main-theme Seven Rings In Hand. You wouldn't even expect 
 music this bad in a Land Before Time movie but in all honesty, it gets the job done and fits this 
 game perfectly. That may sound strange but you will have to experience the music first hand to 
 understand what I am talking about. Atleast all the songs are catchy. The rest of the sound effects 
 are pretty standard for a Sonic game, you have the trade-mark ring noise, the spring noise, the 
 running noise etc. No item boxes, check points or goal rings are in this game at all though but 
 Im sure if they were they would sound just like you expect. There is a huge bonus that Sonic Team 
 threw in here called Party Mode with 40 mini games to play through that will remind you of Mario 
 Party in just about every way. At first you can only play as Sonic, Tails, Knuckles and Amy but 
 fortunatly as you progress through the game you will unlock maps to play on, characters and more 
 mini-games. Not all of the games impement the remote to it's full potential but you are also able 
 to use your gamecube controller so it's very easy to play this mode with all your friends and it's 
 just absoloutly fun. Omochao makes an appearance here as well with a new voice and he plays the 
 basic role of referee in guiding you through the menus and it's fun to have him back again. Some 
 of the games will have you hacking away at wood, rowing boats to avoid falling off a waterfall, 
 shaking the remote after picking up chests and listening for treasure while trying to get the fullest 
 one and so on. Nothing as extreme as Wario-Ware but defitinly worth a play through. Overall, Sonic 
 Team has done a great job with this latest release and it truley brings some of the magic back 
 to the Sonic series that has been lacking for a very long time. The Adventure might prove to be 
 a little short when you play through it for the story line, but doing everything in this game is 
 going to take you a very long time, and completing the special book which contains all of your 
 achievements will prove to be a challenge for any gamer. If your looking for a great game to spend 
 some time on with your new Nintendo system you can't go wrong with the Secret Rings. The land of 
 mystery meets the legend of speed and it couldn't have happened at a better time. Welcome back 
 Sonic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blizz_kid
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 4, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Let's look back at some Sonic games: digging for emeralds.... shooting bazillions of harmless enemies... 
 wasn't there something about running really fast related to Sonic games?
  
  Well, it's back now, and in a big way. Sonic and the Secret rings absolutely blew my mind with 
 it's graphics, the quality of the sounds and music, and, oh yeah, how fast Sonic runs.
  
  Graphics wise, this game is absolutely fantastic. All the characters and levels are very detailed, 
 and very well animated. The cutscenes (the 3D ones, not the 2D storybook type) are some of the 
 best cutscenes I've seen in a long time. There are nice special effects and other spiffy stuff 
 you'll notice while playing too.
  
  The soundtrack, in my humble opinion, is great. Although it IS true that it is limited and very 
 repetitive, it still fits the gameplay very well. It ranges from some dance/rock type music to 
 some slow-ish monotone lyrics, but they fit the levels well. For instance, when you're in the blazing 
 hot, mechanical fortress stage, you'll hear a snappy rock beat with the repeated lyric Who's gonna 
 rock the place? . Sounds lame while you're reading this, but actually go listen to it and play 
 the game, and you'll find that the music is just great.
  
  Gameplay is pretty well done too, although I will agree with Gamespot that the controls are sometimes 
 a little difficult to cope with. In general, Sega makes very good use of the Wii-mote to move Sonic 
 around and use his abilities. I found that if you can still move forward, the controls are awesome. 
 If you're forced to move backwards, however, it's a bit frustrating because you can't see what's 
 behind you after you've run past it. You won't find yourself moving backwards too much though, 
 so the minor flaw that shows itself here isn't really too bad. There are a wide array of upgrades 
 you can acquire, which help you in some small ways to gradually make Sonic faster, more agile, 
 and more powerful. They are very helpful later on when some of the bosses attack you quickly and 
 just being fast isn't enough. GOTTA GO FASTER! Speaking of which, I rather enjoyed the two special 
 abilities Sonic has in the game, being Speed Break and Time Break. You can send Sonic absolutely 
 flying at breakneck speed, or slow things down when the area is cluttered with spikey balls or 
 cacti.
  
  The multiplayer is pretty fun, consisting of a wide array of minigames, but you'll notice VERY 
 quickly how much is taken right out of a certain Nintendo-exclusive party game (with it's 8th game 
 coming out this year) and glued to some Sega characters. That doesn't mean in any way that it isn't 
 fun, but I still felt that it was a bit of a copy-cat move by Sega.
  
  All in all, I found this game to be fantastic. Sonic is back, he's moving fast, and it's awesome. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slimjiminat0r
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 4, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Theres no such thing as an arrow through your dreams. That lyric must have been written on the 
 board at every meeting SEGA held while working on Sonic and the Secret Rings. Its in the main 
 theme song. Sonic says it when you finish a level. The developers must have clung to the notion 
 that the dream of a good 3D Sonic hasnt died yet.
  
  But it really, really has.
  
  Sonic and the Secret Rings marks the Hedgehogs first outing on the Nintendo Wii. Long before its 
 release, buzz around the game had been building as a result of wild speculation around the use 
 of the Wiis unique controls. How would the motion sensor come into play? Would the pointer be 
 part of boss fights? Nun-chuck or no nun-chuck? Secret Rings had the potential to turn the Sonic 
 franchise on its head and to finally produce a 3D hit. It had the potential, yes, but a long list 
 of missed opportunities, awkward presentation and an absolutely abhorrent soundtrack take the wind 
 out of this ones sails.
  
  SEGA promised Wii owners a back to the roots Sonic the Hedgehog game with Secret Rings. Sonic 
 would run on set paths, constantly moving forward. The idea being to attempt to emulate the pace 
 of the old 2D games from the genesis era, and have raw speed as the focus for this fresh new look 
 at Sonic. In essence, this is a great idea. Too much necessary exploration hampered the Sonic games 
 on the Dreamcast and robbed the game of any feeling of speed, which is the core of any good Sonic 
 game. With this idea, players would be sent barreling down pathways and would have to react to 
 the environment as enemies with lightning speed if they wanted to see the end of the level. Just 
 like the good old days, right? Turns out, not so much.
  
  The seemingly simple overhaul that SEGA decided to give 3D Sonic, -- the on rails gameplay, is 
 bogged down by ridiculous design choices. In nearly every one of the seven worlds, youll run into 
 this scenario: Sonic needs to get from point A to point B. Fine, thats easy. Sonic needs to clear 
 a canyon or something else that is perilous is order to get to point B. Okay, its still standard 
 fare. To do this, Sonic needs to hit a spring, just like any other Sonic, to get enough speed and 
 height to clear this canyon. Thats cool, but the unique bit to Secret Rings comes into play here. 
 In order to make that spring appearthats right, its not just there already, as part of the level 
 designSonics going to have to run overtop of a switch that will make the spring appear when it 
 is activated. That wouldnt be so bad if the switch wasnt in front of the springboard. Sonic has 
 to back up after pressing the switch to hit the spring. The constant forward movement of the game 
 makes that very difficult. Youll have to pull the controller back towards yourself and deal with 
 the fact that the camera wont reposition itself to help you do so. This means youre moving backwards, 
 slowly, while trying to guess where that spring might have appeared. The pace of the game takes 
 a real kick in the groin when these things crop up. If it were once or twice in the whole game 
 that would have been forgivable, but instead these sorts of situations are commonplace and leave 
 you thinking another one of these dumb things? after youve seen the first few.
  
  A neat idea that the developers tried out was adding an RPG element to the Hedgehogs arsenal. 
 There are one hundred upgrades available to the spiky little guy that range from better attacks 
 to being able to plain out just run that much faster. Some of them are also fancy little things 
 like being able to attract rings to Sonic, slow down time (time break) and speed up Sonic to a 
 ridiculous extent for short period of time (speed break) . These last two become particularly essential 
 to finishing some of the more difficult sections of the game, few as they are. The trouble, however, 
 with these new techniques is that they just werent given very much care. Activate time break and 
 youll see how choppy the time is slowing down effect looks. Things should look extra fluid and 
 graceful while moving in slow motion, not choppy and jumpy. Speed break is just as bad. It speeds 
 Sonic up so much that his entire surroundings become a blur and enemies cant hit him. Its useful, 
 sure, to use speed break to skip over an enemy infested area, but it comes across as the developers 
 giving the player a way out of a lame part of the game. You dont control Sonic while speed breaking, 
 you just watch him do mach five. Theres nothing to it: its just a skip this section function. 
 I thought I would leave the story and music break-downs for last. Theyre two of the funkiest (not 
 in a good way) choices Ive seen in any game for a long time. Anyone whose stuck it out and played 
 the previous 3D Sonic games knows that overly energetic 80s pop-rock has become the norm for the 
 franchise. Knowing this, imagine that every level having its own sort of theme song fully fleshed 
 out with lyrics about the kind of things in the level. The Dinosaur Jungle stages lyrics repeat, 
 with much gusto, Theres dinos, Its a jungle, in case the player hadnt realized they were running 
 past dinosaurs in a jungle. But wait, why is Sonic running through a dinosaur infested jungle in 
 the first place? How did that work its way into the story? Well, in the case of the Secret Rings, 
 there are several stories. Sonic is thrown into the book of Arabian Nights, a collection of stories 
 (including Aladdin and the Genies Lamp, which is actually referenced in the opening cutscene) 
 that is being erased by an evil genie who lives in the book. This bad dudes name is Erazor, and 
 he seems to be voice acted by Phil in accounting. Laughable bad guy at best. The genie that implores 
 Sonic to help save the stories in the book is named Shara, and she serves as your guide and an 
 annoying pest throughout the course of your adventure. Her exchanges with Sonic repeat almost every 
 level, and she rarely says anything that the force tutorial at the start of the game didnt teach 
 you already. Tails, Knuckles and Dr. Eggman all make appearances in cutscenes, though as characters 
 from Arabian nights. I had trouble not tuning out the cutscenes after Tails told me that My name 
 isnt Tails, its Ali Baba. Awesome. My very own Ali Baba Tails. Just what I wanted SEGA, thanks. 
 I was very excited for Sonic and the Secret Rings. It held a lot of promise, and Ive been waiting 
 for a good Sonic game for a home console, any home console, since about 1993. The developers told 
 press in interviews before the games release that Prince of Persia, God of War and Shadow of the 
 Colossus had all been influences in the development of Secret Rings. It seems that none of the 
 success of their influences was theirs to be had. Sorry Sonic, but its about time you wrap it 
 up. Pack up and Ill see you when youre back in 2D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lukster91
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 4, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  Having bought this game on release day for 40 pounds (posible to get it cheeper - but my rating 
 for value is based on that) , this game has given me some great enjoyment and frustration at times. 
 Making great use of the wii remote, this game allows you to do some interesting things throughout 
 the game, that are simply: fun, challenging and unique.
  
  The game starts with 8 small missions giving you some basic knowledge of how to use the wii remote 
 in the game to control sonic throughout his adventures, it takes some time to get use to these 
 controls, the 8 missions are not really enough, but once you have done a few storyline missions 
 you should be able to get to grips with them, making the game is very fun. As I have played for 
 at least 10 hours now, there are 3 main problems I have found with the game that can really be 
 irritating.
  
  - The reversing. Working out how to reverse is easy. But when you over step how far you want to 
 move, it can be incredibly annoying reversing. The controls for this are unresponsive. You have 
 to tilt the wii remote backwards. But to do this, you first need to set the remote to straight, 
 and if your tilting it slightly forwards, or back already, you need to move it back to 'neutral', 
 and tilt back from there. - Next, in open areas, if you have to hit a spring or something, you 
 can find your self running in circles, without actually hitting the spring, finding you have to 
 reverse all the time, line your self up and then move forwards onto the spring. This can take up 
 some times, and this really annoys me, when all I want to do is play the game, rather than fiddling 
 about with the controls. - However, these places are not that frequent, and don't take the enjoyment 
 away from the rest of the game.
  
  - Finally, deaths... This is a large problem. You die way too frequently. Problems come up unexpectedly 
 (which makes the game challenging) , but it turns the game into more trial and error, rather than 
 working on reaction times to get something done. But after a few deaths, getting past the issue 
 is really not a problem if you don't let it bother you.
  
  If you don't let any of the previous problems bother you, they really don't happen frequently enough 
 to stop you enjoying the game.
  
  I have noticed as well, that the voices in-game are annoying. They are triggered by in-game events 
 and repeat themselves, when really they don't need to if you end up repeating that section. It's 
 fine for instructions, but just small dialogue comments are irritating, and sometimes they can 
 sound unrehearsed.
  
  The music in the game is interesting. The main theme, I don't like it myself. However it gives 
 the game an attitude, which I do like. However, i think there could have been a better choice in 
 song for this game.
  
  There are just some small aspects to the game that just make it jollier. The graphics, the Erazor 
 Djinn henchmen you have to defeat (what they are wearing - appearing as pirates in the pirate level 
 for example) . Then of course the mini-games:
  
  The mini-games make good use of the wii remote, somewhat similar to the game: Warrior Ware: Smooth 
 Moves, where you have to perform certain tasks with the wii remote. This is very similar. Holding 
 and using the remote in certain ways to complete the mini-games on screen, with the ability to 
 play up to 4 players. However, I believe, although simple and fun at the moment, they could have 
 developed the mini-games a lot more. They have so much more potential to become a main aspect of 
 the game. Some of the mini-games are really things you could only do once to enjoy...
  
  Having never played a sonic 3D game before, I can't really compare it with other 3D games before. 
 However, what I have seen from this game really has been nothing but fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razoroo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 4, 2007 5:30 am PT
Review:  I'll be honest with you right from the start: I never liked Sonic games really.
  I was a Nintendo fanboy back in the days of the SNES and Megadrive/Genesis. I loved Mario and his 
 games. They were better designed, had more replay value (Super Mario World) and were perfectly 
 balanced. Sonic games were bright, colourful, fun but also very poorly designed and frustrating. 
 For example, you would be hurtling through a course at top speed, doing loops, being thrown in 
 the air etc, and your having fun. Then suddenly BANG! You crash into spikes. You lose all your 
 rings. All sense of speed is lost. It takes 10 seconds to get a decent run up again. Sonic isn't 
 very manouverable when he's moving slowly. You get angry. Your blisteringly fast run has been ruined 
 by spikes you cannot possibly hope to avoid. Or even worse, you hit a spring which send you back 
 the other way. WHY?! I WANT TO GO THAT WAY! However, Sonic always did have a certain charm and 
 the instances where you do get to run unhindered at lightning speed were really special. Even in 
 the Sonic Adventure games, which were crap, there were good moments where you would zip around 
 the levels which was great. And then you run into spikes. Big bloody 3D spikes. When I heard of 
 the premise to this game, a beacon of hope lit up. You don't explore a level in 3D, battle enemies 
 and have to put up with annoying supporting characters. It was as if Secret Rings was trying to 
 erase the memory of the Adventure games. And that was good. This is what the evolutionary step 
 up for Sonic games from 2D to 3D should have been. The Adventure games were trying to be like Super 
 Mario 64, a revolutionary title that defined what 3D platformers should be like. Sonic doesn't 
 need that. The character himself is not built for precise jumps, slowly dodging obstacles, and 
 tricky levels which require intricate moves. He is built for speed, the levels should be long, 
 twisty, easy to see obstacles which you CAN dodge, and have fun doing it. Secret Rings makes sense 
 for Sonic, this is how all Sonic games should be. It's still not perfect but in concept, it ticks 
 all the right boxes. The premise is simple; lead Sonic through several courses completing different 
 missions, gaining experience, getting bonuses and having jolly good fun. There is no exploration 
 here; instead you get an on-rails racing game where you can steer left and right (within the confines 
 of the rails) to dodge obstacles. You collect Rings, jump gaps, and run really really fast.
  The sense of speed is impressive, and the graphics are great for the Wii. The worlds are colourful 
 and have a distict artistic look and feel. They are based on the Arabian Nights and so you will 
 find Oases, deserts, palaces, ruins and other Arab-like themes are present such as..... dinosaurs. 
 Ok, so maybe not everything is Arab but it does give that impression most of the time which is 
 nice and a welcome change from that bloody Green Hill Zone or whatever you call it. Only during 
 certain menus and other screens do you hear Arabic music, melodious and exciting with drums and 
 that familiar desert feel. Then you start a level, only to be welcomed by the worst sound you will 
 likely ever hear. And not just in videogames. Stereotypical American teen angst music, the kind 
 of crap rock and pop you find in a teen's garage or on MTV. It is horrendous. They could have done 
 a Prince of Persia by creating beautiful Arabic music infused with heavy metal, but instead they 
 opted for the crap you find in the loners' section of a CD shop. Having said that, the sound effects 
 are decent enough. I enjoyed the sound of collecting rings as it was nostalgic and the pitter-patter 
 of Sonic's shoes as he races through a level were ok. The voice acting is complete garbage of course. 
 It sounds like they hired the entire cast of Pokemon, made them inhale helium and threaten to kill 
 their families unless they spoke in high-pitched, Americanised gibberish. The main antagonist, 
 a rather tough looking Djinn, sounds like a regular Joe who works in a steel factory. The level 
 design for the most part is good, and it suits Sonic perfectly. However, there are times when the 
 game can be incredibly frustrating, such as the platform segments which require precise control. 
 It's times like these when you wonder if Sega actually learned their lessons from past mistakes. 
 For God's sake, SONIC CANNOT JUMP SO DON'T MAKE HIM! The checkpoints are crap too, if you fall 
 in water, they send you back MILES. This is especially annoying during the race missions against 
 a glowing orb, where you might as well give up or restart if you make so much as one mistake. You 
 will either love or hate this kind of approach to the game. It is a trial and error type, where 
 you will eventually come to know a level so well that other people might mistake you for a psychic. 
 It's one of those old school addictive games where the more you play, the better you get, and you 
 will even start to see the game in your head while day-dreaming, like Tetris. An example can be 
 found on any course, like the first one, Sand Oasis. The first few times you play it, you will 
 keep crashing into the same bloody cactus or pillar or you forget to jump at a crucial moment. 
 After a few goes however, you will soon master the level and can attempt to break your record, 
 or unlock a new medal. This is where the replayability comes in. Many extras can be unlocked by 
 replaying a level and finishing it faster or with more rings. You unlock artwork, cinematic scenes 
 and multiplayer games. The game includes an RPG element in the form of a customisable ring. You 
 gain experience upon completion of a level which you can then spend on upgrades such as extra boost, 
 attack power, a mini-boost at the start and other such things. Then you can go back to a level 
 which require on or more of these, and can complete it accordingly by mixing abilites to suit the 
 level. This adds a great level of depth to a game that would be otherwise quite shallow. The controls 
 are simple, requiring only for you to steer left and right with the remote. You can break by using 
 the 1 button or jump by pressing the 2 button. There are times when you feel like you're not even 
 playing, when the camera strays from its regular 3rd person perspective. I personally didn't like 
 this aspect, because it felt like you were watching a demo. The camera angles are good though, 
 offering nice views of the beautiful levels. The steering and general button layout works well 
 for the Wii but it begs the questions, is it really neccessary and can it be done on other consoles 
 such as the 360? The answers are no and yes respectively unfortunatly. Don't get me wrong, its 
 better suited to the Wii but if all your doing is moving left and right and jumping, do you really 
 need the Wii remote? You could use an analogue stick instead. The Wiimote is better suited to full-on 
 racing games like Excite Truck which has more precise movement that Sonic. The worst thing about 
 the controls however is the jump button and reversing. You have to hold down the 2 button to charge 
 and then release to jump. While charging, Sonic slides and slows down. Why? Now you've lost your 
 sense of speed and it doesn't feel like you can make the jump, which is often the case. The precise 
 movements required to land on small floating boxes in the pirate levels for example, can be very 
 frustrating, and it just isn't Sonic's style to jump! He doesn't and more importantly, CAN'T jump! 
 Leave that to Mario! The annoying jumping mechanics combined with the terrible reverse system can 
 take the enjoyment out of the game. Maybe its just me, as I have a tendancy to pull back on the 
 remote when I want to land on a small floating box. You can cancel your jump with another press 
 of 2 and land nicely on the box, but then your automatic reaction is to go woah there boy, slow 
 down! and you pull back on the remote. What does Sonic do? He backtracks into the water. Return 
 to 5-mile away checkpoint. Thank you, try again. Maybe the reverse controls shouldn't be so sensitive, 
 or perhaps there shouldn't be any bloody platforming! Maybe I just suck, but it does feel like 
 these moments break the flow of the game. When the game does flow smoothly, you will have lots 
 of fun. It really is great sometimes, and cool. I especially like the minigame bits where you ride 
 a bullet in the air like a surfer, or run in the sky on a rainbow road to chase after a pteradactyl. 
 Hope I spelt that right. There is a multiplayer mode and I have only played it once by myself. 
 There are 40 minigames to choose from and apparently they all suck. The 3 or 4 I played were ok 
 but nothing special. It's a great shame that there isn't a racing mode, either split screen or 
 otherwise where you and a friend can tackle a course and see who finishes first. It's amazing that 
 Sega never included it. Anyway, I've rambled on enough I think. All in all, Sonic and the Secret 
 Rings is a welcome return to form for the old Sonic fanboys, and a nice intro for newbies. Forget 
 the Adventure games, this is what they should have been. The concept makes sense for a fast character 
 like Sonic, and he shouldn't be doing anything else. There are nice extra incentives here, such 
 as the RPG elements, the unlockable bonuses and maybe even the multiplayer. The single player offers 
 a surprising amount of depth, and an annoying amount of death. It can be tricky and frustrating 
 at times but the visuals, and the sense of speed are great. The new theme is a welcome change and 
 the game would be perfect if it wasn't for a few control and design flaws. A decent game overall 
 but could have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decepticondevil
Rating: 2.9
Date: Mar 3, 2007 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot gave this game a really good review, and the forum for the game is buzzing with positive 
 reactions.
  
  I hated this game.
  
  First you get to see the first of many many cut scenes , which are nothing more than unimpressive 
 still drawings with voice acting over them. They are pretty long, and since you're just sitting 
 there listening to some characters talk and looking at drawings, they... stink.
  
  To start the game, you must first begin with a number of training missions, and each one (though 
 short) teaches you one move. Now, it is important to have this type of thing for a game with all 
 new controls, but they could have easily had one longer training mission that incorporated all 
 the moves instead of the five or six that got to be extremely tedious and boring after about the 
 second one. Also, the one that taught attacks really started to annoy because the attack method 
 is so unresponsive... and if you miss an enemy, just one, you have to start over. You're being 
 penalized because the controls stink.
  
  FINALLY, you get to start the game... which is quite boring. The graphics are pretty good, but 
 nothing revolutionary and don't even come close to making up for the lack of game play. You basically 
 run forward through linear levels, jumping over obstacles and attacking baddies. The turning (basically 
 moving from side to side, not really turning) doesn't control too bad, but the attacks (which are 
 done by thrusting the remote forward) are extremely unresponsive and only seem to work about half 
 the time. Apparently you can upgrade the controls by reaching new levels..... yeah, you have to 
 earn good, responsive controls. Also, this game has a GOD AWFUL cheesy metal soundtrack that sounds 
 so bad it reminded me of the kinds of things DVDA (Trey Parker and Matt Stone's band ) do in South 
 Park... only it's meant to be taken seriously. I loved the early Sonics on Genesis, but like the 
 past few years of Sonic, this falls flat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuzumeCake
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 4, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  Sonic's blue, he's fast and he has his nice red shoes. Anyone remember that cartoon episode about 
 his shoes? The evil guys stole his shoes, apparently Sonic lost all his speed because of it. So 
 it's the shoes that makes Sonic fast?
  
  Anyway, after reflecting over the above situation let's talk about the game instead. Never in the 
 game does Sonic take his shoes off.
  
  The game boost an insane value for your money, this game's gonna last long. it has lots &amp; lots 
 of unlockables. Some will test your patience to the limit, so can you do it?
  
  This game is in your-face difficult. The normal storyline of the game however isn't that difficult, 
 but when you decide hey, let's get all the secrets! . ouch right there! that's gonna be a difficult 
 task to accomplish. You'll have to maneuver enemies, deep water, spikes, big spiky balls etc... 
 not so hard right? well, you're gonna do it blazing fast, that's why it's hard!
  
  When the game starts out you might think hey, this is pretty fast . No, that's slowmotion compared 
 to how fast you will run later in the game. Remember this when you start the game for the first 
 time. Sonic can increase his abilities, gain exp and lvl up! When you lvl up your maximum rings 
 &amp; skill points increase. The more skill points you have, the more skills you can equip. Pretty 
 nice huh? During the course of the game you gain several skills (maximum being 104 skills) .
  
  Several skills are hidden, and require your work to earn them. If you decide to take this part, 
 lvl grind &amp; collect the secrets the speed of the game just goes insane. You'll have several 
 skills that will make Sonic blazing fast. But then... you'll have a skill that doubles that effect? 
 wait? what? The game will move so fast that you'll have a problem controlling Sonic through the 
 obstacles. And that's a kick-banana cool feature.
  
  The game features the Japanese voice-overs as an option! yay! I love these features, they only 
 appear in a few games. During the stages Sonic will talk to his genie helper Shara. So you'll actually 
 hear dialog in certain parts when running through the stages.
  
  Sonic will make yahooss... and wahoo, wohooos etc while running on ramps, springs and grinding etc. 
 Making him feel alive and cool.
  
  The controls takes time to learn, they are rather tricky at the start. So it takes time to get 
 used to them, but when you've played 20 hours or so the controls feels much easier. You tilt the 
 wiimote to move, jump with the button and than there's lots and lots of other moves you can do 
 &amp; learn through skills. So you're not only left with running and jumping, you can do a homing 
 attack, backflip, go backwards, cancel your jump mid-through, double jump on walls etc..
  
  The music in the game is your English vocal rock songs! Mostly the songs makes no sense! but some 
 parts sounds cool, like Seven rings in hands . nice huh? But the lyrics uses the English language 
 weirdly. Sounds like they just put in some words to make it sound nice with the rest of the music.
 
  
  The graphics are great, the graphic really show of at the last stage in the game. You get to see 
 Sonic close up and you'll notice how sleek and good he looks in the game.
  
  This is one great game, it delivers a solid challenge and some insane speed. I've played the genesis 
 games of course, did years ago. If there's one thing I miss about 'Sonic and the Secret Rings' 
 it's the sci-fi action. The genesis games had some kind of Sci-fi action going on. You would be 
 running in a spaceship, in space or in a highteq factory. 'Sonic and the Secret Rings' has a factory 
 stage, but it doesn't feel very sci-fi at all. Putting a Hedgehog in space is just something cool.
 
  
  I think this is the best Sonic game I've played. it's tons better than the old 2d games. This game 
 has much more depth, advanced gameplay &amp; features. But the 2d games have their charm, as most 
 2d games do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkMaster7991
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 3, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Well I was negative of it at first but it turned out ot be really good. Smooth controls, fun, fast, 
 and multiplayer! Most sonic games aren't multiplayer. There is a easter egg to be. Like shadow 
 the hedgehog if you had a seacond controller insde the slots then if you had sonic with you on 
 that level someone else can be sonic. This one is Marioparty syle for multiplayer and impressive. 
 I recommend this game. Ofcourse someitems the controls were weird like is sometimes sonic would 
 move back where your weren't pushing back but ethier way i recomend the game and it's very rginal. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kirby12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 3, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  The game is pretty good, but it is killed by doing missions. I really think the game should of 
 had more levels, instead of doing missions in the same levels. Some missions are incredibly hard 
 or annoying, while some are just stupid. The first mission of each level is to get through the 
 level which is very fun. After that, in the same exact level setting, there is a mission like Collect 
 99 rings! or Kill 10 enemies! In my opinion, there should be a bunch of leve; s where you just have 
 to get to the goal and beat the boss, instead of having a bunch of pointless missions that contribute 
 absolutely nothing to the story. If this game was more of a Sonic Adventure 2 Battle game, just 
 with no switching of characters, this game would have been perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Unlike previous 3D Sonic titles, this game is not controlled through a camera... instead 
 it is viewed on-rails . If you don't know what I mean by this, then imagine a game that is constantly 
 moving, and where you cannot move freely around an environment. In a sense, the on-rails perspective 
 gives this game a nostalgic feel and rids of the horrible camera systems seen in previous Sonic 
 games. While this is without a doubt good for the franchise, some things just weren't perfected 
 enough to make this game great .
  For starters, while the controls (you hold it like a regular controller, and tilt the remote to 
 move Sonic) work and are fitting for the platform, they don't always work the way they should. 
 For example, sometimes when your controlling the game, you don't actually get the sense that you 
 are doing anything to alter the gameplay. That may seem a bit odd to hear, but most of the time 
 I noticed that if I didn't move the remote at all Sonic just kept on going and still didn't get 
 hit (of course in some missions that will never work so don't think that's all you need to do) . 
 Also, the controls surely could have been better programmed so that the remote better detected 
 your motions.... sometimes the controls just feel inconsistent. This of course isn't a good thing 
 when the game itself is already pretty difficult, but depending on who you are you may find the 
 difficulty of the game refreshing.
  On the upside though, the gameplay brings back memories of when Sonic was about pure speed.... 
 and Secret Rings does a good job of recreating those past Sonic experiences. If you want to play 
 this game then you need to be ready for a challenge, and ready to scream at the TV over and over 
 again when you mess up on something. It really is that kind of game.
  As far as the story is concerned, it is based upon the Arabian Nights tales. It is unique, but 
 at the same time extremely fake between the poorly written story and the horrible (and I do mean 
 horrible) voice acting.
  Lastly, the minigames. To sum it up, the minigames are setup to be nothing more than a Mario Part 
 rip-off... only it isn't nearly as fun. The minigames are really hit or miss, just like other Wii 
 minigame based games. Some are fun and work well, others are just broken and they make you wonder 
 what exactly the point of the minigame is.
  Overall, you'll see a lot of stuff you like in the gameplay, and a lot of stuff you'll hate about 
 the gameplay. Hopefully though, you'll see more of the stuff that you like rather than more of 
 the stuff you dislike.
  
  Graphics: This is for sure one of the best looking Wii games to date. Sure, it isn't anything spectacular, 
 but it is clear that this game was built from the ground up on Wii. The worlds are colorful, and 
 the pixels that are Sonic have never looked better on a Nintendo console. Some of the character 
 art is pretty good as well, such as the villainous Erazor Djinn .
  
  Sound: How should I put this.... well.... the music in the game is.... how to put this...... crap. 
 The bad thing is, the music is so horrible that it is catchy, and eventually will stick in your 
 head. Think of it this way, the music is the kind of music that sticks in your head, only it is 
 the kind that you don't want to stick in your head. Between that and the horrible voice acting, 
 there isn't much good I can say about this category.
  
  Value: The game will last you a good while if you plan on completing all of the missions, and every 
 mission has an epic looking boss to go along with it. In addition to this, there is of course a 
 minigame mode... whether it is enjoyable or not it is there. If your looking for a game that has 
 tons of replay value, you may not necessarily find it here, but you will be able to pick this up 
 and play it for awhile to come.
  
  In conclusion, this is by no means the best Sonic game we have seen, but it is a promising new 
 take on the Sonic series. Regardless of how odd the controls feel, they still work and work fairly 
 well.... and the new on-rails gameplay sheds new hope on the future of the series. Sonic and the 
 Secret Rings is a game that should not be missed by fans of previous games, and at the same time 
 is a game that will be easily accessible to newcomers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super600
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 3, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  This is the best game I have tried for the wii so far because this game shows how fast sonic can 
 run and it has a awesome level up system with awesome graphics and with a bit of messed up controls, 
 but you get over the controls very soon and this will start to become an awesome game. You start 
 of this game when sonic is sleeping with the 1001 arabian nights storybook when all of the sudden 
 a genie appears out of the book and tells sonic that an evil genie is destroying all the pages 
 in the book. This genie tells sonic that he is the genie's master and to help destroy this evil 
 genie. If you don't have a wii or going to get one very soon make sure this sonic games in your 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_final_sora
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 3, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  Sonic on the 360 was good but this game completley outclasses it this has got to be one of the 
 very best sonic games of all time.
  
  On this game there are barley any glitches good music and all round good gameplay.
  
  The story 
 line is about the arabian nights some spirit dude called erazor djinn has been whiping out the 
 arabian nights book and is trying to break free so a genie appears out of no where and gives sonic 
 this ring but not just any ring i wont spoil the rest of the story but ill tell you whats up with 
 the flame on his chest.
  
  Due to a spell that flame is his life force when it burns out he goes six foot under if you know 
 whati mean if you dont i mean he die's i dont know that much of the story cause i only bought it 
 yesterday but its a good game worth the money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musicsponge123
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  Sonic '06 well it was an alright game but still what a total letdown everyone thought it was going 
 to be sonic reutrning back to his roots but sadly no he is still hopping about with stupid charcters 
 and stupid camera angles.
  However 2007 is the year of the hedgehog. Sonic is back and this time he's serious.
  Sonic and 
 the secret rings is probably the best 3-d sonic ever! Yes ever! The story is based on arabaian 
 nights sonic is sucked into a story book where erazor is trying to destroy all the pages and claim 
 all the power to himself. However sonic and this annoying genie women are here to save the day.
 
  You start out with a very long tutorial level where you learn all the moves at first it felt really 
 strange and i thought this could be a flop. But within 10 minutes I was jumping around like a nutter 
 and going at insane speed
  I then unlocked the first world sand oasis i completed the first level which was a lot of fun the 
 lock-on system works really well with this game and the speed of the game is really insane. Once 
 you have completed a level you get points which add to your score allowing you to level-up and 
 making your sonic even more powerful being able to add special moves and powers. You have to 9once 
 you have completed one mission) have to to do other types of mission in the same level overall 
 there are 10 for each. Some include don't die don't collect rings, defeat and amount of enemys, 
 collect 99 rings and some inlcude find eggs or destory eggs also you have to race this little genie 
 too which is frustrating (he's too good) but it's fun. The game itself is really hard you will 
 die a few times but once you work out the pattern of the level you will be able to pass the hard 
 part. If you collect enough orbs your speed bar will become full this allows you to do speed boosts 
 which makes sonic go (insanely) fast and time break which causes it to go (inasenly) slow. Another 
 great addition is the party mode this really is a teaser as to what mario party will be like but 
 if it's like this then it's going to be great the mini-games are simple but a lot of fun and the 
 modes are great like a pirate race and treasure hunt. Overall the game itself is awesome sonic 
 is back and he's serious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiifan127
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 3, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  Now, if you can remember, Sonic hasnt actually had a good 3-D game in a while. Why? I have no 
 clue. Now, Sonic is returning us to the good old days, and I think one of the big reasons why this 
 game is so good is because Sonic is going solo for the first time since Sonic the Hedgehog, the 
 one on the Genesis. Now, Sonic and the Secret isnt perfect, hence a lacking storyline that, in 
 the end, has grown on you a little since the beginning. Sonic must travel to the world of the Arabian 
 Nights, with a little help from his magical genie friend, Sharah, to save it from the Erazor Djinn (Pronounced 
 Jin) . But in this game, the gameplay mechanics are different. Sonic runs nonstop. You hold the 
 Wii remote sideways, press 2 to jump, and 1 to brake. You also flick the Wii remote forward to 
 do a homing attack or swoosh forward in the air. The gameplay is fantastic, so is the graphics, 
 and the sound is pretty good. The controls are spot on, and you can add skills to Sonic that will 
 make the controls smoother and make Sonic faster. The songs fit Sonic well, also. PICK THIS GAME 
 UP WHILE YOU WAIT FOR MP3, SSBB, and SMG!!! A must-buy! And Im not even much of a Sonic fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jp_18
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 2, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot gave this game a 7.6 which is not bad, but I disagree with it I believe this game deserves 
 a better rating than that because of how much of a better game it is than any of the other sonic 
 games that have came out! The controller is actually very responsive and the graphics are beautiful. 
 It has a lot of lasting appeal 40 mini games and 100 missions! The loading times are fast and its 
 just plain out fun, its awesome how you can level up and do so many things! The voice acting believe 
 it or not is better than any other sonic game! If ur a sonic fan dont miss out on this game, u 
 may of regreted getting all the other 3D sonic games but I promis this will not dissapoint! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 4:31 am PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings is a new type of Sonic game that doesn't involve Chaos Emeralds and 
 fighting Dr. Eggman. It's themed on Arabian Nights and has Aladdin-like things like a genie named 
 Erazor Djinn and another genie named Shahra. This is also the first Sonic game to not have pop-ups 
 wherever you end up going and a good soundtrack to top it off. If you played the Genesis Sonic 
 games then this feels no different because it's like those. Personally, I think this was a really 
 good Sonic game because it had a really amazing sense of speed when you're using the Speed Break 
 and a good sense of slow motion with the Time Break. It has RPG elements too so you'll end up earning 
 new abilities and learning them with SP. (Special Points) Still the same voice acting from 4Kids 
 but it's all the better because of its new classic-style gameplay. You see the the gang but they 
 have different names and I thought it was pretty weird but it had a good twist to it. Tails was 
 Ali Baba and Knuckles was Sinbad. If you thought Sonic Adventure was a revolution on the Dreamcast, 
 then Secret Rings is a revolution on the Wii. If this game was supposed to save the Sonic series 
 then it did an amazing job doing that because a lot of the Sonic games that came out didn't do 
 a very good job. What with Shadow getting his own game and it being the most horrible game out 
 there. This game was really amazing since it was all about speed and Sonic is all about speed. 
 My only complaint was some of the missions since they're hard. Try the perfect missions where you 
 can't be hit once. Try finishing without rings. Other than that. Finally, thank you Sonic Team 
 for making Sonic great again. A problem with this game, however, is that sometimes, you'll play 
 a mission with the camera facing the front of Sonic and you don't know where to jump, you'll hit 
 spikes or whatever and you'll lose lives and that's a problem that sonic games had for a while. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zac41
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 1, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Sonic has had some rough times, back in the day Sonic games were up with the best of the plat formers. 
 Once Sonic hit 3D things went bad. Sonic adventure and its sequel were sub par at best on the 
 Dreamcast, and still just as bad with the Gamecube re-releases that were essentially the same games 
 with a few extras. Sega has tried multiple times to give its blue rodent a comeback. Once Segas 
 Dreamcast system went south, they brought Sonic and his friends to Nintendo consoles, to try and 
 revive the character, then brought him multiplatform with Sonic Heroes and Sonic Riders, plus games 
 on the Xbox 360 and PS3. With all this, fans and gamers in general have not been pleased with any 
 of Sonics outings besides a few handheld games. Is Sonic and the Secret Rings what the doctor ordered?
 
  
  The story for this game has Sonic literally going into an Arabian Nights book to restore the pages 
 that are being erased by the new villain Erazor Djinn, thats right, although you will see a cameo 
 from Eggman he is not the bad guy in this one. Besides for sonic, you will see cameos from other 
 sonic characters but none of which have important roles in the game. The story in this game is 
 told through comic book style cut scenes. These cut scenes are better if you skip them, since the 
 story is uninteresting and the voice acting is extremely bad.
  
  Sonic on the wii is graphically impressive for the system. Its refreshing to see a game thats 
 not just a Gamecube or PS2 game ported over to the wii with tacked on controls. Not that Im pointing 
 any fingers at a particular company for doing that (cough. Ubisoft) . The environments in this game 
 a very diverse, and full of detailed environment. There are only seven levels, but each level holds 
 its own and has many objectives for you do to within them. You will see a range from deserts, 
 pirate ships, Arabian palace, and dinosaurs. Each level has new and interesting game play techniques, 
 for example riding a bullet shot from a cannon, riding a magic carpet, or barely escaping the jaws 
 of a dinosaur. Sonic and the Secret of Rings takes full advantage of the wii remote, having you 
 hold it sideways and tilt to steer sonic as he speeds through the environments, and simply shoving 
 forward to attack. The controls work very well, and actually give you much more control over the 
 game. This is a huge improvement in the series because in the other 3D sonic games I felt like 
 I was just pressing forward and watching the game play itself. This Sonic game has a new experience 
 point, RPG style to it. When you level up you get access to new techniques and improvements. When 
 you first start the game, Sonic will move very slow, but once you get levelled up, Sonic will live 
 up to his speedy reputation. The RPG element is a great addition, and keeps you playing to see 
 what you will unlock next. Even the camera in this game works well, with the exception of when 
 you need to back up. When you need to back up, the camera stays facing forward, leaving you to 
 walk blindly into enemies and other dangers. The game actually has enough unlockables that will 
 keep you playing, especially if youre a Sonic fan. With so much good going for this game, the 
 game is still flawed. Team Sonic decided to keep the sonic tradition of lame music. I mean the 
 music is really bad in the game menus, and you will here it over, and over again since there is 
 only one track for the menus. Another problem is the difficulty, I wouldnt say this is a hard 
 game, but it is challenging. The problem is you will find yourself dieing very stupidly, and repeatedly. 
 This is because the game makes you have to memorize whats going to happen to avoid it. With a 
 fast paced game like Sonic, trial and error game play doesnt seem to fit. Also some of the challenges 
 in the levels (that your forced to do) are very tedious and not fun. Some may frustrate you to 
 the point where you would like to throw your remote, always wear your wrist strap. They have put 
 a multiplayer component in this game as well called party mode, the problem is these minigames 
 are not planned out very well and was obviously thrown in late in the games development stage.
 
  
  Overall I feel this game is a step in the right direction, and a sequel could fix a lot of this 
 games problems. When that happens you will have a truly amazing plat former, but for now, you still 
 have good game, just not as good as it could have been. This game does keep you entertained, and 
 will give you hours of enjoyment. I think that most gamers will enjoy the games overall experience, 
 especially Sonic fans. Sonic fans will love the games unlockables, such as a history of Sonic section. 
 For Sonic fans or gamers looking for a good plat former to tide them over until Mario Galaxy, I 
 say go out and buy this game, you wont be disappointed. For the rest of us I say this game is 
 well worth a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeedleGlavin
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-
  
  For the most part, SatSR plays well and gives a very genuine feeling of speed and progression. 
 However, there were some moments in the game when you found yourself asking, Why didn't they do 
 something about that? or wondering how they could have shipped the title with some of the meh level 
 design. The levels are mostly great, but some of the level design leaves much to be desired. Stupidly 
 placed obstacles to the flawed ability to walk backwards leave much room for improvement.
  
  Graphics-
  
  Definitely one of the high points of the game. Everything, from the draw distances 
 to the lighting and water effects make this one of the prettiest titles to grace the Wii since 
 its launch. Even better - I didn't catch any slowdown. The framerate stayed solid throughout the 
 main storyline.
  
  Sound-
  
  If corny 80s metal is your thing, you'll be right at home with SatSR. The soundtrack and voice 
 acting are, for the most part, pretty awful - though, hasn't that become sort of a trademark of 
 the franchise?
  
  Value-
  
  The single player could have afforded to be longer, and the multiplayer function has half-assed 
 written all over it. If you're a huge Sonic fan, then this is a definite buy - as it takes the 
 franchise back to what made it popular in the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kinan_M
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 1, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  Take what you know about Sonic games and throw everything out the window except for Sonic himself 
 and Speed and you're just about ready to begin to grasp what Sonic and the Secret Rings is like. 
 The story's simple, but put together well. Sonic's called into the world of the 1001 Nights by 
 a female genie named Shahra because some Djinn, who is simply referred to as the Erazor Djinn, 
 thought it was a good idea to erase all of the stories and absorb their power. Sonic, the good 
 hero that he is, simply couldn't refuse a good adventure and went in to help. Before he's good 
 and ready, though, he's shot with a fire arrow. Once this arrow extinguishes, he'll die, and the 
 only one who can help him is the very person who shot him in the first place. Sometimes you just 
 hate being the hero, eh? To make sure he doesn't seal his own fate, Sonic's told by the Erazor 
 Djinn to find the seven World Rings and bring them to him. The control scheme for Sonic's movements 
 is simple. Figuring them out however, takes a little longer. If you are an average gamer who's 
 played console games for a while, getting used to having to tilt the controller to steer might 
 be a bit weird in the beginning. Especially without any upgrades you earn throughout the game, 
 the steering isn't as smooth as you would like it to be. Of course, once you have the upgrades, 
 this is fixed. What's frustrating about the controls though is having to back up. It's not the 
 handling to do this, though. but how it's done. As the game is mostly set on rails and you're just 
 along for the ride and to make sure really bad happens, it's annoying to have to back up. This 
 is slow to do, it's a little annoying to see where you're going, and it often doesn't quite work 
 as well as you'd want to. Fortunately, these kind of situations hardly ever last very long, or 
 the speed you get to zip through the level with afterwards makes up for it completely. Speaking 
 of speed. An impressive sense of speed is almost nonexistent at first, which might make you wonder 
 when this'll start being a game about Sonic the Hedgehog and not Sammy the Snail. Not to worry, 
 though. After level one there'll be plenty of that. And I do mean *plenty*.
  
  Summed up, Sonic and the Secret Rings is a nice game with some frustrating moments but definitely 
 worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonknightx0
Rating: 6.1
Date: Feb 28, 2007 4:36 am PT
Review:  Sonic, a game that was surely a signifigant game for its time, its what made the Sega Genesis, 
 but now they made another one for the series, i mean, they have probly made about 40 sonic games, 
 and about 30 of them were complete failed attempts. Its strictly in my opinion that the long loved 
 sonic, should enter his entitlement in the History of video games, key word HISTORY no longer present. 
 I have acculy taken liberty and picked up a few of the recent made sonics, dont get me wrong, there 
 not too bad, but there no where near as good as the feeling you used to get from them, ya know 
 waking up early in the morning before school, turning on Sega, hearing SEGA lol, i mean it was 
 a great feeling playing, expecialy when they released Sonic 3 with the expansion pack, it was a 
 wonderfully entertaining game. But now there totally destroying the Series, there getting so despret 
 for games for sonic and to bring him back to life, maybe they havent realized but hes dead, hes 
 in our memories as a great Video game charecter, so in my opinion, this is a pointless game to 
 try to bring back a dead charecter just like every other of there latest attempts.
  
  But i have acculy played the game, and it was a decent game for its make, but it just doesn't have 
 that feeling any more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nolan-
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 28, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  Let's face it. Sonic and the third dimension are like oil and water; they just don't mix. Even 
 though the games have so much potential, they've been plagued with numerous problems, such as (but 
 not limited to) a clunky camera that can't keep up with the action, control issues, level design 
 flaws, an over-reliance on 3rd-tier characters, and an under-reliance on the one thing that made 
 Sonic famous in the first place, and arguably the entire point and main factor in any sonic game: 
 speed.
  
  Luckily Sega finally decided to move the 3D Sonic franchise in a slightly different direction, 
 and it's a very good thing they did, because Secret Rings is a true gem of a Sonic game. It's the 
 first time I've ever had this much fun playing a Sonic game since the Genesis days (save for Sonic 
 Rush) . SATSR does away with all the crap that we've had to put up with in the past. The blue hedgehog 
 is the only character you'll control in the game, and the game has a fantastic sense of speed. 
 Even better, the camera is a non-issue and you'll never have to worry about those deaths that you 
 have no control over because, since the game is technically on rails (though it doesn't really 
 feel like it) , Sonic always knows where to go and will make all the crazy life-threatening jumps 
 for you (but like with every Sonic game, you'll still feel a sense of satisfaction from it) .
  
  As I mentioned, the main difference between Secret Rings and Sonic games before it is the fact 
 that Sonic is essentially on auto-run here, and you control him by moving left and right (as well 
 as jumping, braking, and moving backward when needed) . At first this may sound a little iffy, but 
 once you play it, you'll see that it actually works unbelievably well. The game does a better job 
 of capturing that classic genesis-era Sonic feel than any of the 3D Sonic games before it, and 
 that's due largely to the unique controls and on-rails system. The wii-mote itself works great 
 with this game. I couldn't even imagine playing this game with a regular controller. Thrusting 
 the wii-mote forward to perform the homing attack feels incredibly satisfying. Tilting left/right 
 to navigate Sonic feels very natural and works quite well. The controls are very responsive, it's 
 just that they take some time to get used to, and even more time to master. Some people will adjust 
 to them quicker than others.
  
  That's another thing about the game; it has a fairly high learning curve. It's the type of game 
 you have to invest some significant playtime in before you fully understand how to control Sonic 
 with ease, which is why it may not be the most casual-friendly game. I'll admit, upon first playing 
 it, I was a little under-impressed. But that feeling changed drastically once I started really 
 getting into it. As you've probably read, the game uses an experience system of sorts. You gain 
 experience from beating challenges and learn new skills upon leveling up. These skills play a pretty 
 big part in the game and will noticeably affect how Sonic performs. Particularly the speed break 
 &amp; time break abilities, which you will acquire at a fairly early level. These are arguably 
 game-changing abilities. So it's fair to say the game gets better as you go.
  
  The graphics definitely are some of the nicest that we've seen on the Wii so far. The game is very 
 pleasant to the eye. The worlds are vast, beautiful, and full of all sorts of snazzy effects that 
 are all very welcome. The music is basically love it or hate it. Personally, I love it. If you're 
 mature enough to look past the cheesy lyrics, you'll find the music suits each stage incredibly 
 well and sounds really good when you're blazing through these levels at insane speeds. The only 
 complaint I have is the main theme is a little over-played, but that's just nit-picking. The sound 
 effects are mostly classic Sonic affair and all sound very good.
  
  The story is as about as corny as ever (though a little different, which is good) , accompanied 
 by that unique brand of over-exaggerated voice-acting you've come to expect from Sonic games, but 
 it really doesn't matter. The cut-scenes are all skippable, so unless you actually have any interest 
 in the story, you can skip the cut-scenes and get right to the good stuff.
  
  There are about 7 worlds in total, all filled with multiple challenges. The first challenge in 
 every world is a straight up Go for the goal , which basically has you running through the entirety 
 of the stage. The stages are very well-designed and all unique in their own way. Other challenges 
 include stuff like defeating a certain number of enemies, collecting a certain number of rings, 
 beating the clock, fighting a boss, and more. Even though you'll be doing multiple challenges in 
 a single world, you'll never feel like you're running the same stage twice. There's tons of variety.
 
  
  There's definitely a lot to like here. It's been a rough couple of gaming generations for Sonic. 
 It didn't really work out on the Dreamcast. The Gamecube-era showed at least some potential for 
 the blue hedgehog (Sonic Heroes) , but that quickly diminished (Shadow the Hedgehog) and Sonic's 
 first journey into the current generation was an unmitigated disaster (Sonic 360) , but finally 
 it looks like Sega nailed it. Secret Rings is without a doubt the best 3D Sonic game so far. It's 
 fast, it's fun, and it finally does the blue hedgehog justice. It's good to have you back, Sonic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wario80394
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 27, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  After a slew of terrible Sonic games, (ex -- Shadow the Hedghog, Sonic Riders, etc) Sega has devised 
 something worth playing.
  I'll break this review into some main categories.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  
  The gameplay is simple, yet complicated. What do i mean by that? I mean that 
 sometimes, the game can be a fast moving roller coaster with no boundaries. And at other times, 
 it can be a puzzle solving mystery game. The controls in Sonic and the Secret Rings are great with 
 accurate responses from the Wii Remote. The level design also can be both great and terrible. Some 
 levels, such as the Sand Oasis, are beatifully designed and crafted with speed, while others like 
 the Dinosaur Jungle (crrct?) can be slow moving and hard. However, the good levels overcome the 
 bad ones.
  
  Graphics: 8
  
  The graphics are crisp and light, while camera angles stop you from looking at the scenery. The 
 character models during GAMEPLAY are colorful and beautiful. The graphics during cutscenes... eh... 
 not so much. They are put into comic book form! I didn't excpect this, and it also disappointed 
 me. During some levels, such as the Dinosaur Jungle (Yeah, i really hated it.) , the camera angles 
 would just move to another direction than what you are trying to go for.
  
  Sound: 6 The music is bad, but the sound effects are good. There is only ONE SONG that i could 
 hear. ONE. That's unacceptable. However, the sound effects of Sonic and the enviornments are good. 
 But the voice acting is TERRIBLE. It seemed like they picked some guy with a high pitched voice 
 off of the street and told him to say something to a camera.
  
  Controls: 10
  
  The controls are the main point of the WIi, and this is Sonic and the Secret Ring's strong point. 
 It showed what the Wii could do with games, and unlike the PS3 and the 360 versions, these controls 
 were GOOD.
  
  Overall, a great game. Only if they had put more music in it.. Good job Sega!
  But i'd rent it 
 first. To some gamers, like beginniners to Sonic games, this is actually pretty difficult.
  8.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chuzzlewit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  This Sonic game is a good addition to the classic series of running wild through levels but I have 
 two complaints. The first is the music on the main screen, the hardcore annoying song - when was 
 this ever a part of Sonic! I know it is a new game and updated and whatever, but that song is as 
 annoying as crap! The second complaint is the cinematic stuff. I know again, it is an addition 
 to the game to make it more involved or RPG-like if you will, but I just want to sit down and control 
 a speed filled game that I don't have to think about, the way it used to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gouki
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  This game feels like you're rediscovering sonic all over again. Its controls do take a minute to 
 get use to but once you do get the hang of the control its like second nature. Looks great plays 
 great has a great story. Reminds you of the fun of the old school sonics with its speed and game 
 play. The boards are something to behold as you go through the game. The water is beautiful and 
 the colors are bright. The game does present some good challenges and the voices for the most part 
 are on target with a good sonic game. If you love sonic games you owe it to yourself to play this. 
 Definite 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenPDP7
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 1, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I'm a longtime oldschool Sonic fan, and it just makes me furious to see the kind of crap that's 
 coming from Sega today with a Sonic label. Yes, it uses the Wii controller, but so what? It feels 
 like a racing game, not a platformer, and I think it overuses the motion sensitivity. There's no 
 reason to make the player have to awkwardly yank the controller around in order to initate an attack. 
 As much as I was disappointed with the Sonic Adventure series, at least they still had some slight 
 semblance of similarity to the 16-bit era games. This does not. You have no control over where 
 you are going or how fast you are going.
  
  Despite the innovative controls, I just can't seem to get into it. It feels absolutely nothing 
 like playing a Sonic game, and it just frankly doesn't entertain me at all.
  
  The most important thing to me about Sonic games has always been the _atmosphere_ of the game. 
 It used to give me a good feeling just to play the old games- they had pretty graphics and good 
 music. They also had a good, but not overly intrusive, storyline. NONE of these elements except 
 the graphics are present in this title.
  
  The music is of a completely inappropriate style (electric guitar + vocals) . I can't stress enough 
 how terribly ridiculous I feel the music selection in this game is. The choice to go with this 
 cool sounding music instead of something more reminiscant of the earlier games can only be explained 
 by the fact that they wish to pander to whatever they think their target audience would be listening 
 to. It's pathetic, and it ruins the atmosphere of the game completely, to me at least.
  
  The graphics in-game are very impressive, but there's still a shoddy, cheap feel to the game. They've 
 liberally applied all kinds of fire effects on all the menus, titles, and text, I suppose because 
 fire is inherently cool. It just doesn't seem professional. It seems like a third-party game- something 
 you'd expect on a Sony system. The voice acting- it's terrible. It's insanely bad. It's completely 
 unnecessary in the first place. Too much use of voice acting is a good way to completely mess up 
 a game, and that's what they've done here. The storyline- it's completely random and contrived 
 and has nothing to do with any other Sonic game. You're just running around in the magical pages 
 of a story book in order to save it from being destroyed by an evil genie, who, for apparently 
 no reason at all, has decided to embark on his quest of destruction. Unless a completely new (and 
 by new, I mean very old) approach to Sonic games is adopted by Sega, and they start making games 
 that give the player the same feeling as the old 16-bit era ones did, I'm convinced there's really 
 no future for this character at all. Sega has completely sold Sonic out to bad marketing strategies, 
 and has kept no sense of loyalty to the original character or games.
  
  I realize most people will read this review and think I'm being overly critical. I don't think 
 I am. I consider games to be works of art, and I value intensely the atmosphere, mood, and storyline 
 a game brings to the table. I get the impression, though, that Sonic Team does not share my views. 
 It seems Sonic Team is in it to make a buck and give people some shallow thrills and excitement. 
 They think that speed and flashy graphics are all there is to making a Sonic game. Maybe they just 
 got lucky back in the day, but there was a time when it meant more than that to some people. They 
 just had a particular aura about them that modern games can't seem to reproduce. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SimonHukilau
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 26, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings succeeds where the recent 3D Sonic games have failed miserably. The 
 haphazard controls of Sonic Heroes and the overpriced next-gen nightmare Sonic the Hedgehog have 
 been replaced by the smooth motion control of the Wii-mote. The graphics are some of the best so 
 far for the Wii, and they convey a very real sense of speed. Sound in the game is also one of the 
 strong points. The tunes are catchy and all of Sonic's classic sound effects are back in full. 
 As usual with Sonic games, this one is on the short side, but the great controls make it worth 
 replaying a time or two.
  
  If you've had your fill of Twilight Princess and your arm is getting sore from Wario Ware, Sonic 
 and the Secret Rings is not a bad game to add to a collection if you're looking to pick up another 
 Wii title.
  
  A worthy effort on the part of Sonic Team. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lhardwick692
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 27, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  here lately if you played one sonic you played them all. he moves so fast and everything you loose 
 your coins before you even know what hits you. i remember the good ol' sonic days where you can 
 go around and enjoy the game but here you just still cant do that. its like the level starts 3..2..1... go -- every 
 level and its a race to the levels end without actually enjoying the game. graphically its nice-top 
 knotch for the wii -- pretty smooth running -- music is pretty good -- and i will admit the controls 
 are tight and easy to maneuver sonic around. i just wished the level were made where sonic can go 
 slower and enjoy the view and collect what he needs to collect to save the book.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krustykikr999
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 26, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Unless you're living under a rock, you probably know the latest 3-d platformers of Sega's lovable 
 blue hedgehog have just downright stunk, some not even featuring him (SHADOW THE HEDGEHOG) and it's 
 forgotten the true formula that made this game fun in the first place: speed. Well, Sonic and the 
 Secret Rings finally returns the speed of this series that have been missed in the past years. 
 Basically tilting the remote left and right to move Sonic left and right , while he's moving forward 
 automatically, either building up speed, running super fast, or just not at all, maybe even possibly 
 backwards if you tilt the remote towards you. Speed is all over this game, and I couldn't be more 
 pleased. I am also proud to say this game is finally showing us the graphical potential for the 
 Wii. This game is truly a looker, and sometimes, you may wanna just stop to take in the view. Even 
 for how fast this game gets, there's no frame rate issues or goofy camera angles. I am looking 
 forward to more games looking as beautiful, or as fun as this. Of course, the game does not come 
 without its screw-ups, like the music, the steep, sometimes brutal learning curve and the controls 
 do get a little iffy at times. The music isn't too bad, but the voice acting isn't top-notch either. 
 It'll take you somewheres up to an hour to THINK you have a hang of this game, but than you'll 
 get a new skill and everything will be Now, what do I do? And like EVERY other Wii game, it has 
 a variety of mini games. It's nothing we haven't seen before, adding multiplayer to this game. 
 In the end, this game is fun, and anyone would agree that Sonic is better than before in this new 
 2-d/3-d platformer for the Wii and is a must own for anyone willing to accept Sonic's apology. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCarl
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 26, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  As a subscriber to GamyFly, I feel the need to try out the Wii games that come along and offer 
 a new play experiences. Sonics steering controls provide an alternate way to play a platformer 
 but they don't add and sometimes subtract from the gaming experience.
  
  Sonic doesn't bring much to the table as far as graphics which are fair even for Wii standards. 
 The sound/music doesn't do much better, offering only a few sound effects and some truely bad voice 
 acting. The story is a good foundation but has some additions that make you shake your head and 
 wonder who would ever be amused by them.
  
  The controls are setup so that you feel like you are steering sonic as he runs along his (only) 
 course throughout the level. Tilt the control to the left or right (like driving a car) and Sonic 
 goes left or right. A jump button, which is pressure sensitive, launches Sonic into the air and 
 a quick jerk forward of the remote makes him either dash or do a homing attack depending on if 
 there are any enemies on screen. Tilting the remote backwards will put the Hedgehog into reverse. 
 This control element is the most broken and takes a lot to get use to. The key is finding where 
 the remote considers neutral and tilting back from that.
  
  After just a few rounds with the game, I've got it packed up and ready to be shipped back. Here 
 is hoping my next Wii game brings more to the table. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrm88
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 26, 2007 5:57 am PT
Review:  I think the new Sonic game in a nice addtion to the SEGA's legacy in gaming. Sonic and the Secret 
 Rings takes the game back to basics and the reason we enjoyed the Sonic games in the first place. 
 Which is the speed of course! This game has no side quest, and no other characters, but than Sonic 
 the Hedgehog. Which is nice to be because we all saw how the Shadow game went! Anyway, the game 
 is a solid title. The graphics are as good on the 360 or PS3, but they do look good on the Wii. 
 The levels blew me away with how vast and deep they were. The gameplay, well, it's run, jump, attack 
 and more running. I liked the gameplay it reminded me of the good old days on the Sega Gensis. 
 The voice acting was alright and the value of this game is well worth playing. So go on and run 
 over someone on Sonic and the Secret Rings 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDUB_x
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 25, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings takes a new approach to the 3D games in the franchise, and it partly 
 works great, and it partly works terrible.
  
  Sonic is completely controlled using the Wii-remote. Sonic moves forward on his own, tilting the 
 Wii-mote moves sonic from side to side, Pushing 1 makes him stop and pushing 2 makes him jump. 
 Holding the 2 button for a short period makes him charge his jump to gain extra hight. Tilting 
 the controller backward allows Sonic to move backward and other various ability's are unlocked 
 to use as the game goes on. You also gain the ability to slow down time and boost Sonic's speed 
 early in the game. How Sonic attacks is where the game presents its biggest problem.
  
  To attack an enemy you thrust the Wii-remote forward once you have auto locked on to that particular 
 enemy. In most cases this works just fine, but sometimes in what would seem the worst possible 
 time, you end up locking on to the wrong enemy or sometimes no enemy. Sometimes this only equals 
 backwards movement and trying again, but sometimes this will result in restarting the entire segment 
 do to a frustrating death. This is equally frustrating when the same mechanic is used for much 
 of the platforming in the game. The levels are presented in a kind of on rails style, and Sega 
 gets a lot of credit for trying something new for the series. The levels are also very creative 
 and varied. You've got Deserts, jungles, pirate ships and castles among others.
  
  Another big plus is the Upgrade system. Throughout the game you collect shiny orbs that give you 
 experience points. when you gain levels, you get ability points to spend on upgrades. This is how 
 many of Sonic's special ability's are unlocked.
  
  The story is another big improvement for the series. Instead of just the same stop Egg Man from 
 ruling the world scenario, the story in Secret Rings pulls form the Arabian Nights story for inspiration. 
 Sonic is sucked into the pages of the book by a friendly Genie and is tasked with saving the world 
 of the book from being destroyed by an evil Genie named Djinn. Along the way Sonic will meet many 
 familiar faces but they are not who you or even Sonic think they are. The sound in Secret Rings 
 is mostly terrible. Sega has gathered some truly awful Alternative rock music for the game, its 
 so bad its actually amusing. the voiced acting is also quite bad but not nearly as bad as the music.
 
  
  Aside from the main Adventure mode there is a party mode that supports up to 4 players and is basically 
 a Mario Party clone except that each mini game uses the Wii-mote Tilting and pointing and even 
 sometimes the speaker to play them. Some of the mini games are much better than others, but the 
 party mode is a very nice addition to the package.
  
  As a 3D Sonic game, Secret Rings makes many improvements to the formula but some of the frustrating 
 control issues continue to plague the overall experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: payne6705
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 25, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  this sonic game is a major improvement over other sonic games it focuses mostly on sonic's speed 
 which made him popular in the first place. now how i can describe this game is all you do is tilt 
 your Wii remote to the left and right and time your jumps yet the game does it in a good way where 
 it wont get boring but as all sonic game you must hear horrible voice acting and possibly the worst 
 music i ever heard and the game will always repeat the same song over and over again if you win 
 a level or lose the level another problem with the game is there are 7 worlds but you dont progress 
 until you beat X amount of challenges in each world so you could play the same world over and over 
 again but with a diffrent challenge like collect over 50 ring or don't break a vase one other problem 
 is sonic will always move foreward no matter what if there is a enemy in front of you and you didn't 
 kill it sonic will get hit stop and walk into it again then the same thing until you somehow time 
 you jump just right when you right next to the enemy it is a pain in the ass but you can move sonic 
 backwards by tilting the remote back but no matter what he will always move forewards and build 
 up speed.... one other thing i didn't like was there are no cut scenes instead it just pictures 
 so it looks like a book but some people might not mind that i did..... if your a sonic nut then 
 buy this game if you want a good sonic game rent or buy it if you can get through the problems 
 then this is a very enjoyable game that is fast paced and nice graphics other than that though 
 i suggest you rent it before you buy the game
  
  PS. multiplayer is ok 40 mini games with 3-4 diffrent modes (tournament, pirate ship, etc etc) but 
 those mini game you probably played but still a nice bonus 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_tabarez
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 25, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings brings you back to the old days when all sonic did was run and jump. 
 This game's story is much different than a regular Sonic title: it takes you into the book Arabian 
 Nights. The gameplay is amazing, but difficult, at times you can just breeze through a level, but 
 other times you just continuously die. The graphics are great, i love the level design, it's very 
 diverse. The sound is great as well, i love the music in the levels and the main theme. This game 
 has great replay value, after you beat the game you can play the older missions and try to get 
 a gold medal. I recommend this game for Sonic fans and even people that are not too familiar with 
 the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tak963
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 25, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for a good new Sonic game than this is it. If you're looking for an awesome new 
 Sonic game this might be it. If you're looking for a perfect Sonic game than this probably isn't 
 it. Anyway, SATSR has some good and some bad. Basically, you find a magic ring which is like a 
 genie's lamp, and out comes a genie. She tells you that there is an evil spirit who is getting 
 out into the real world and he wants to destroy it. Of course, she can't just depend on some other 
 person, she has to depend on Sonic, the legendary blue hedgehog. The control in the game is pretty 
 simple but I don't really like it. You turn the Wii remote horizontally (like in Excite Truck) 
 and turn it to the left to go left, and turn it to the right to go right. Tilt it forward to go 
 forward, tilt it backwards to go backwards. I wish Sega couldn't have just made it so you hold 
 it vertically and use the nunchku to go but if you get past the whole control thing there is an 
 awesome new feature! You can complete challenging challenges to get new ring abilities that you 
 can put into your ring of choice and use them to help you. Well, if you're listening to the game 
 you'll hear some funny jokes and pretty good music. I would say that you might want to rent the 
 game at least before buying it at all. This game is good, but probably not a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaker88
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 24, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Before you pick up this game, you have to realize that this is a very different Sonic experience 
 than other past Sonic adventures. The new plot is disapointing, as you see a different villain 
 (Erazor) taking the place of Eggman. However, although the plot isn't the game's strong point, 
 Sonic proves to be a very good and unique Wii experience.
  
  There are several details that hold Sonic and the Secret Rings back from greatness. The fact that 
 you don't always control Sonic's speed and momentum can sometimes throw you off, especially the 
 first few times you play this game. Still, once you figure out the simplicity of the controls, 
 and the fact that we finally have a good 3-D Sonic adventure, this game can be a blast.
  
  Another downside is the fact that you have to play through levels more than once. Although you 
 have different objectives each time you play through a level, you tend to predict what's coming 
 up next, which can lead to repetitive gameplay.
  
  The graphics are beautiful, and are certainly the best I have seen on some Sonic games, with absolutely 
 no slowdown. The music fits nicely with the graphics, but are just too corny for any large amount 
 of enjoyment. (I would never get these songs on my iPod)
  
  The gameplay is simple, as you tilt the controller left and right to move, and press the 1 and 
 2 buttons to slow down and jump. This creates very simple gameplay, but there is still many amounts 
 of challenge and gut-wrenching, controller-throwing moments.
  
  Overall, this game is a unique experience that any Sonic fan should enjoy. The longevity of the 
 game is almost unlimited... being a game that the whole family could have a speedy good time playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moheevi
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Sorry this is a short review, but...
  
  Do yourself a huge favor and go and see this film and then tell your friends about it. It has no 
 special effects!!! No HUGE stars (though Kinnear and Arkin are famous and perfectly cast) This 
 film has just great characters, unusual but perfectly understandable circumstances, fantastic dialog, 
 wonderful actors, stunning cinematography, effortless direction and seamless editing. This film was 
 very well received by the audience I sat with. I laughed, I cried and laughed until I cried. I heard 
 that this film only cost three million dollars to make... it just goes to show that tens of millions 
 need not be spent to get a treasure. Go see it and be thoroughly entertained. This is one good 
 old-fashioned movie for everyone over 13 (if you preempt the grandfather's language, which is really 
 part of his character) . Hope it gets some nominations!!!
  
  Now after you have read some reviewer's (rasvag53) review from imdb (for little miss sunshine) , 
 now you will understand what it feels like playing sonic and the secret rings. What you expect 
 is not necessarily what you get. It's fast (yay! original sonic) , but it doesn't feel like a full 
 fledged game. Also, if you're going to include minigames, don't rip off what everyone else has 
 done. The minigames were not that fun : (
  
  Overall - Decent game, but rent it before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roll450
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 24, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  This is game is really nice and brings back the old days of the blue hedgehog that ran around to 
 get to eggman and use the chaos emeralds. Now Sega and the sonic team have made their 3rd best game 
 which i think and or a opinion
  
  Ever since the last game sonic the hedgehog for the PS3 and xbox360 it went out horribly wrong 
 because of the game and most of the glitches. This game is different well besides the bad camera 
 angles. This game is still great... Now The Rating
  
  Gameplay - its not really that frustrating to control sonic through his whole adventure and kinda 
 makes good use of the wii mote in party mode.
  
  Graphics - The graphics look like its from an updating graphics card but looks really really good 
 also and almost looks like a medium graphics game from the sonic the hedgehog (NEX GEN)
  
  Sound - The sound is ok its just that it feels like sega put everything in that game except the 
 ocean sound (weird) also its using the voice actors from the sonicx series (the first voice actors 
 were better) .
  
  Value - The games value is good its just that for some sonic haters its not really worth your time 
 and money to spend on. But for those sonic lovers it will bring back the old days just playing 
 as sonic no other chracters except in party mode
  
  And yeah so i give this game a 8.4 for bringing back the old days of sonic when it was only sonic. 
 Also im 18 so if you say im 14 ---- off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THECARISMINE
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 4, 2007 1:42 am PT
Review:  If you where a hardcore sonic fan back in the day like me then you will be really happy to hear 
 that sonic is finally on his way back, its a long rocky road but he can do it. This is a must 
 have for the Wii. It starts with completely horrible audio and the music is some of the worst sounds 
 on earth, I still cant figure out what they are saying but its nice to scream along lol. Anyway 
 the game play is just awesome, I will admit when it starts the training and most of the first level 
 is really strange and I hated it, but then comes the speed oh such a beautiful thing. Once you 
 get about half way through the first chapter of the game you will simply love it trust me I was 
 extremely surprised. The reason Im giving the audio a 7 and not a 5 is because you can change 
 it to Japanese which is a flipping awesome option in the game, I don't know any japenese or anything 
 but in comparision to the english voice acting it at least 60 x better, Still same as the other 
 3D sonic games. The game reall just keeps getting better the further you go and the new level-up 
 system makes the game 100x more replayable, like I said other then the first level this game is 
 the best thing I've played in a while
  
  Multiplayer isnt special but its a nice little extra of party games which have a strange feel 
 of Mario Party. Still its ok and can be fun with 4 people.
  
  This is the first Sonic (aside from rush which was pretty cool too) since the Genesis That I can 
 say is worthy of being included in the sonic universe But when you start playing turn the audio 
 to Japanese, it saves you a lot of disappointment in the fact that you paid $50 for it till it 
 starts, and bear with the training because that part is really disappointing too, if you don't 
 like the english acting like me. This is a MUST HAVE for any Wii owner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonamy4ever
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings brings back everything that made the Sonic series the Sonic series. 
 And we all are happy about that. The story starts with Sonic falling asleep while reading the Arabian 
 Knights storybook. (he can read!?) And he is then awoken by a genie who says that an evil Djinn 
 is trying to destroy the book, so... Sonic runs off to save it, and he finds out that he has to 
 find seven rings to stop the Djinn. So, from there, you rune off and do a large variety of missions, 
 there are some where you collect so many rings, or mabey you have to go through without defeating 
 enemies. No matter what, its a REALLY fun. Except for one thing... THE CONTROLS SUCK. They are 
 hardly responsive, and its hard to control Sonic's speed as he is constantly moving forward. You 
 can get some skills that make controling him easier... but not by much. Away from the only suckish 
 part of this game, you can gain expierence after each level, and as you level up, you get new skills, 
 which you can assign to a skill ring before you start a mission. Each skill costs some skill points, 
 and if you remove the skill from the ring, you get the skill points back.
  
  ANYWAYS, aside from the 1p campaign, there is a kickass multiplayer mode, you can take on minigames 
 that range from knocking the characters off of giant towers with spkied ball-and-chains, to shooting 
 down pirate ships. You can unlock new minigames to expand you collection.
  
  Overall, this game brings back everything that maked Sonic such an amazing franchise. And boy is 
 it fun. w00t Sonic Team! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicsept17
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 24, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  SATSR is the best 3-D Sonic game to date, so here's my review. The good things about this game: 
 High speed action, no searching for chaos emeralds, game looks great, tons of missions, surprising 
 amount of depth.
  The bad things... voice acting isn't so great, nor is the music (can be catchy at times though.) , 
 no that many cinematics (cutscenes) , a bit short (only 7 worlds, plus 1 tutoriol level.) The best 
 things about the game: Sonic is the only character in story mode, despite their being only 7 worlds 
 each one is great to look at and run on, party games can be appealing, Sonic is fun again!!! Sonic 
 fans (including myself) , don't waist anymore time listening to me, go try this game for yourself; 
 I don't think you'll be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kikouken
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 24, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game today and I have to say it's not bad at all. The controls fit nicely with 
 Sonic and just tilting the Wiimote left to right to move Sonic is fun =) The graphics are really 
 good for the Wii (Sonic has textures :o) The environments are pretty and the water effects are 
 great. I haven't played the whole game but it is way too short... It could be better if they made 
 the game a whole lot longer to play. It has good replay value though, and the multiplayer is similar 
 to Mario Party. You can unlock skills (100 in total i think) to make Sonic maneuver through stages 
 much easier. During the game you'll notice the camera. A 3D sonic with a GOOD camera? Yeap. It 
 works perfectly. It gives you a view of everything around you so theres no bumping into things 
 that you dont expect to come up ahead of you. The only downside to this game is the difficulty. 
 Oh lord, this game can get so hard at times. The difficulties can be really annoying and you can 
 die multiple times during a stage. Very irritating but you'll eventually clean up your mistakes 
 and get through. Overall I'd say it's a well done game and I enjoy it a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paveric
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 24, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  I've been a Sonic the Hedgehog fan since I was six years old and this game really takes the cake. 
 The controls are just plain fun to use, and the camera is not an issue anymore because there aren't 
 any awkward moments where you have to stop and look around like in previous titles. The coolest 
 addition, however, is the level up system as it gives you the opportunity to customize your abilities 
 and upgrades. This feature is meant to be used to customize yourself as to whether you need speed 
 or attack strength for bosses. I got this game the first day it came out and would encourage everyone 
 to run out and grab it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheConscience
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  [THE GOOD] A great sense of speed - Many missions and unlockables - Very challenging final boss 
 - The game's story keeps you wondering
  
  [THE BAD] Removes classic Sonic aspects - Can't see what's behind you when backing up - Very few 
 bosses - Only one playable character
  
  When I first heard about this game, I was imagining a new Sonic adventure with Doctor Eggman trying 
 to find the Chaos Emeralds. Boy, was I surprised! There are very few things in this game that resemble 
 past ones, but it is still a fulfilling experience and surely worth your time and money.
  
  Secret Rings has a creative way of remaking Sonic's classic moves specifically for the Wiimote. 
 Over 200 different unlockables make you want to keep playing. This is truly a great Sonic game 
 and will go down in history as the game that brought Sonic back from his 'haitus', if you will.
 
  
  There are over 7 worlds with over 20 missions in each, including a boss stage. Fire Souls are in 
 most stages, which eventually unlock mini games and 4 bonus characters in 2P mode- Shadow, Cream, 
 Silver , and Blaze. 
  
  This game has many inviting features and great graphics, probably the best I've seen on the Wii 
 so far. The only bad parts are the flying pots which sometimes give me headaches, catapults, and 
 there are some very frustrating parts. 2P games can also be a bit confusing, but fun nonetheless.
 
  
  The one thing I didn't like about this game is that it strays away from the classic elements that 
 defined 3D (and some 2D) Sonic games in the first place. There's no Check Points, robots whatsoever, 
 item boxes, and many other elements have been removed. Sonic is faster than he was in Next Gen, 
 and Speed Break is just amazing. Time Break is A LOT like Prince of Persia, but is cool to use.
 
  
  Bottom Line: If you are a Sonic fan and have been disappointed by Shadow and/or Next Gen, and you 
 don't mind a sidetrack in the series, get this one now. It will definitely make you happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dilmos
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 24, 2007 12:33 am PT
Review:  This game has a story mode, that is not 1 weekend beatbale to most, and also has a bunch of party 
 games. I believe without a doubt that this game has the best graphics the Wii has put out yet, 
 and this time around Sega does not disspaoint with the 3d sonic. The levels are increasingly better 
 looking as the game goes on.
  
  Although I think the contorls are something to get use to, which every wii game from here on it 
 is, it is still worth the money and at least a rent before you buy title. But I reccomend a straight 
 up but it now, cause it is gonna take you a while to finish the entire story moed.
  
  I love the Hedgehog this time around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendX20
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 23, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must fan for any Sonic Fan! an absolute must! And for Wii owners it will add a nice 
 action packed title to your arsenal! Before i start i want to say that i have been a die hard Sonic 
 fan since elementary school . but lately i have been increasingly growing distant from the sonic 
 franchise with crappy games suck as Shadow the hedgehog, and Sonic Riders etc....... (great concepts 
 not executed well.) but this recent sonic game has really rekindled my love for the Blue Blur. 
 With this game he has come back to his old wiley ways!
  
  Graphics: 8.5/10 (Wii does a nice job!)
  They are not next gen and compared to next gen the graphics 
 don't look great but fr the Wii they are probably the best of any game besides ZELDA. and when 
 the great looking environments fly past you at super fast speeds the frame rate stays constant!
 
  
  Sound: 7/10 (Rock on 80's!)
  The Music is alright there aren't any songs that really stand out like some of the ones in SA2 
 (correct me if im wrong but the sonic adventure games rocked and had pretty good music) . the sound 
 effects are kinda cartoony in places but overall they add and don't subtract from the game and 
 its atmosphere.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10 (addicting and responsive) I've heard some bad things about the controls in this 
 game but i feel they are done very well. Especially with some good skills equipped. it is endearing 
 and can be addictive. Quick reflexes are required to get the good medals and perfection is sometimes 
 requested for medal but it adds a really cool and unique challenge. But be warned i can be a little 
 frustrating. but the nice things is that there are no lives to loose so u can play the level until 
 u win. Sonic Team must have realized that not everyone could keep up with the game speed at all 
 times!
  
  Story: 6.5/10 (its different but decent)
  The story lacks more so then the SA games in substance but provides a run jaunt through the sonic 
 universe tweaked with Arabian night themes. it flows well and places a couple old characters like 
 tails and knuckles in new character settings.
  
  Voice Acting: 6.5/10
  I guess ive grown to like the Sonic's voice from the $kids Series, or maybe im crazy! 0. o (Entirely 
 possible!) But the standout worst voice in the entire game is the villian's! Could you have chosen 
 a worst voice for the part! OMG come on! i have to watch the Japanese voices to actually fear the 
 bad guy though he is written well. his voice was very sub-par!
  
  Minigames: 9/10 (Great fun with 2-4 players!)
  I don't know why the major review sites were doggin 
 on the mini-games they are fun and semi imaginative. My family and i love to play them. they are 
 fun an engaging . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richter8421
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 23, 2007 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Remember the early 90's? mario and sonic were on top of their game and both became an icon more 
 recognizable than mickey mouse himself. The biggest diffrence between the two is that Sonic was 
 the offtrack child from sega that started hangin with the wrong crowd (ridicules sidekicks) and 
 the worst places (unforgiving plots and worlds) . this has provoke many of us that grew up with 
 sonic to barely recognize him anymore, but now is the time to rejoice because Team sonic is going 
 back to basics and sonic has a second chance at greatness.
  
  Story.
  The one thing that did not go back to basics was the story, it seems almost as if the developers 
 made the game and then had to figure out how to make a story out of it. the result?. A cheesy storyline 
 that makes you think twice before playing this in front of your friends or anyone besides your 
 little brother, dont get me wrong the story has its moments of comedy but it is for the most part 
 forgetible.
  
  Graphics.
  Beatifull enough to make any wii owner proud. wich is a lot to say after the onslought of games 
 with bad graphics. the scenary is beatifull from the sands of oasis to the dinosaur level and the 
 castle, you would never mistake one level from another and the amount of detail is enough to sidetrack 
 your concentration from playing just to glimpse at the scenary.
  
  Gameplay.
  Great but not perfect. there are instances in the game were the controls wont have mercy on you 
 and unfair deaths are as comon as they were in the 8-bit era. mostly it is due to unresponsive 
 controls or a misplaced enemy that you were supposed to jump on to get on the other platform. On 
 the plus side the sense of speed in the game will put your reflexes to the test and this is were 
 the game really shines as the challenge gets better as you learn each course and become a pro at 
 handling the speeding hedgehog through a course of obstacles and again beatifull levels.
  
  Sound.
  Nothing goes better with a cheesy storyline than cheesy dialog, the voice overs are far 
 from good and will hit and miss at times as the story progresses, all characters seemed to be aiming 
 at the kiddies just like so many other games before it. the music on the other hand is decent at 
 best with guitars roaring in the background and themed on the level itself it never feels out of 
 place although it may get repetetive at times.
  
  Overall.
  Although it may sound like a lot of complaints the simple truth is the game is fun and worth buying 
 for the gameplay alone as long as you can forgive the stroy and a few unafair deaths it is the 
 sonic experience we have been waiting for a while. Team sonic was a few steps away from creating 
 a masterpice close to the ranks of the plumer himself, we can only hope that they follow this blueprint 
 for future games and get sonic on track were he deserves to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STArmadillo
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 23, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Sonic has been in a slump lately. I don't get why, seeing as how the Sonic games for the Dreamcast 
 were awesome as hell. I guess Sonic Team lost a bit of its talent; its half-assed, glitchy, broken 
 playability games of late haven't really returned Sonic to his former glory, and the constant inclusion 
 of new retarded characters doesn't help much.
  
  Enter Sonic and the Secret Rings. Promising to be more faithful to the 2D Sonics, the game's simple 
 design actually DOES help elevate Sonic from his problems of the past. Although, I can't say the 
 game is entirely perfect at all, but at least it was a good effort.
  
  The game features a story and cutscenes that are meant to represent stories in Arabian Nights. 
 It does a fairly good job at it, but the dialogue in the game ranges from hilariously stupid to 
 just plain uninteresting. I'd like to see Sonic not act like himself for once. It doesn't help 
 that he constantly spurts out random and 'witty' catchphrases while you're trying to enjoy the 
 game, with his irritating 4Kids voice.
  
  The gameplay, though, is good. It is super fast paced and the skills you learn gradually build 
 up on each other to make the game more playable as you go on in the game, and the large scale of 
 the amount of things happening on-screen can really get intense. Unfortunately, the controls are 
 a bit of a hassle sometimes because of the design of certain areas, which puts your nerves to the 
 test. The game is quite difficult too.
  
  The biggest thing about the gameplay is that the mission system is outright dumb at points. They 
 make a huge deal out of the story and then have you go around dodging pots? The first mission of 
 the world is usually the best since its just getting to the end. The rest... for the most part, 
 are a bit testing if the concept is particularily stupid. The gameplay is fast paced and intense 
 overall, though, and the good points generally do outrank the flaws.
  
  From a sound point of view, this game is a seriously mixed bag. The awful voice acting is annoying 
 and the soundtrack is a bit cheesy. However, I happened to enjoy a large amount of the soundtrack. 
 Even if its stupid and all that, it fits the game rather well and amplifies the intensity of whats 
 going on on-screen.
  
  Graphically, the game is really good for the Wii. I was often surprised at the clarity and overall 
 good quality of the graphics. Not much to say here, but the low amount of lag is a godsend when 
 you're really getting into the fast-paced action.
  
  Overall, the only real problems with the game rely on the poor design of the mission system and 
 the controls occasionally. If you are a big enough man to look past those hitches, you really will 
 enjoy the thrills this game has to offer. And yes, the thrills are plentiful. No fishing or treasure 
 hunting. Just speed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spicer894
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 23, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Sonic and the Secret Rings is a really fun game but has a horrible story. I think Sonic being pulled 
 into Arabian Nights by a genie was pretty stupid. It has pretty cool gameplay though. But I also 
 think it's stupid how Sonic never stops running. Also some of the skills you get are stupid like 
 better brake control and more air turing control. Also it has no opening movie and the opening 
 movie is one of the coolest movies. And all of the movies in the game storyline are all of book 
 form. But even with all those bad points there are good things like cool maps, a pretty cool multiplayer, 
 and cool controls. Overall it is a pretty awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklynx13
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 23, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  I've wanted to play this game ever since it was metioned as Sonic Wild Fire for the Revolution, 
 and its final here. Sega and Sonic Team sure have ran out of ideas but this is the best Sonic game 
 since Sonic Heroes. You may not get to control Sonic moving foward but that makes it easier and 
 more fast. The graphics are fantastic some of the best on the Wii!
  
  As for the story line... well Sonic is sound asleep a genie wakes him up telling sonic that an 
 evil genie is destroying the World of Arbian Knights. Sonic has an encounter with this genie and 
 he fires so evil curse on the genie (Sharah) but sonic deflects it, so to get the flame off of 
 his heart he must bring the evil genie 7 magical rings or he will perish.
  
  So if you have a Wii and your a Sonic fan or looking for something thats Faced-paced i say you 
 should go out and buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spaction3
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 12, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Since the release of Shadow the Hedgehog the gameplay and such has gone downhill. Sonic the Hedgehog 
 360 as overall completely repetitive, with gameplay that was so broken it was programmed by a toddler, 
 a story with a human/animal romance. In some ways Sonic has been going lower and lower, the English 
 Anime dub didn't help either, it just made things worse. but now finally, Sonic get's a game worthy 
 of his name again, it's not the best, but it's a very good start.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Very good, no bad camera, and full on speed. The controls are frusterating at times, infact due 
 to the new gameplay of the Wii Remote, it's like playing a video game for the first time so this 
 may need a LOT of getting used to, it's frusterating, but it's not broken (except the Jump controls 
 at times as they do not respond all the time) . You will have to probably retry many times to get 
 past a level, and other times, to finish it perfectly, you will need to gain some skills. There 
 is ONE unfair gameplay element of this game, the races with Uhl that little blue thing of light 
 and here's how: some of the paths Uhl takes makes it much more impossible for Sonic to win at times, 
 especially the way Sonic dies, in Sonic Adventure when you played as Tails and died, you would 
 get a second chance to be Sonic or Eggman from where you left off in time, but THIS time when you 
 die, Uhl is still ahead making a win easy and winning for you impossible, and that's pretty unfair. 
 Still other then that, most of the missions are pretty challenging and as Wii takes a lot of physical 
 force, great excercise. Sonic start's slow at first but that's good, it helps you have the time 
 to adjust to the Wii Remote, plus the first level is for practice to help you learn. This is pretty 
 fun.
  
  GRAPHICS &amp; DESIGN:
  The graphics are very beautiful, shows what the Wii is capible of. The level designs and such are 
 wonderful, it's like you can do anything now as Sonic in any area, the level design can be a bit 
 frustarating at times so it really puts your skills to the test, even if you are new to the Wii 
 and even more so if you are new to gaming.
  
  SOUND:
  MUSIC WISE:
  A lot of the music is pretty cheezy, some of it is okay, but most of it is kind of mediocre.
 
  EFFECT WISE:
  Sound effects you will remember return as well as others for realism, very good.
  VOICE WISE:
 
  4Kids still remains in this game thanks to them doing a crappy dub of Sonic X, while it is said 
 they may be gone after this game, and I am really hoping, let's see what the damage is. Griffith 
 still makes Sonic sound like a flat tone dork who sounds even more like a dweeb or woman when he 
 shouts, Sonic realy needs Ryan Drummond back, he didn't try to make Sonic sound cool, he just had 
 fun with it and that is what made Sonic sound cool, and the tone of voice helped add attitude, 
 I hope he comes back soon. Sharaa is voiced by Bella Hudson which is pathetic as she hogs SO MANY 
 female characters, and her acting is less enjoyable this time. Dan Green is worse then ever, he 
 made Knuckles sound like he was from a bad fan parody. Tails, still as girly as ever. The only 
 voices I liked are Amy and Eggman. However, this game comes with the option of Japanese voices, 
 so I would switch to them for better voice overs.
  
  OVERALL:
  While this game as some faults, it's still a pretty good game and it has enough pros to pass as 
 a great game for Sonic, If you have the Wii, I highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewii
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 23, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  The fast moving game play makes it very interesting. The only thing that bothers, me about the 
 game play, is the fact that often through out the game you can set the controller aside and watch 
 as Sonic runs through sections of the course. That fact aside, it is a very interesting adaptation 
 of the original Sonic into a 3D world. It has the same feel as Sonic 1 and 2. One thing I did miss 
 was the fact that in the original sonic games you could take multiple courses to the end. Every 
 once in a while you can pick one of two ways to go, but generally you are on one course. I think 
 that they are trying to give us that by having us play the different worlds over and over to achieve 
 different results, but it leads me feeling that I dont have any choices on how to play.
  
  The game is very fun and fast paced, but it didnt keep me hooked. I think that this is due to 
 the wimpy storyline, and the fact that the game doesnt follow it. The levels dont feel like they 
 have anything to do with the story. It just feels like your running courses. Over all, this game 
 is worth playing. The quick levels and multiplayer games keep the game interesting, but just dont 
 play to get immersed in a story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OPbarfer
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 23, 2007 4:50 am PT
Review:  If you were a gamer back in the mid/late 90's, chances are you were a sonic fan at some point. 
 While Sega's little blue hedgehog mascot never quite lived up to the standards set by his biggest 
 rival, Mario, he was quite popular and endearing in his own right. However, Sonic famously lost 
 a lot of his charm in the transition to the 3rd dimension. As Sega kept pumping out passable yet 
 completely disappointing installments of the series, it became more and more apparent that Sonic 
 was like an aging hipster, still trying to be cool well after his time.
  
  Well, it would seem that that era is over. After a recent next-gen near death experience, Sonic 
 is back, he's tuned up and hitting almost all the right notes. This game is a true return to Sonic's 
 old school form. But a word of warning: while it brings back all the things you've grown to love 
 about the early Sonic games, it brings just as much of what you hated about them. Casuals may want 
 to rent this sucker first, this game seems to be aimed more at the hardcore gamer.
  
  The story in Sonic and the Secret Rings is, as with most Sonic games, passable yet completely forgettable. 
 I won't waste space with a synopsis of it here, that information is given with much better quality 
 elsewhere. What is unique about it, however, is the way in which it's presented as I'll describe 
 later.
  
  Sonic and the Secret Rings features some pretty fine motion control. This, for the most part, feels 
 quite natural and intuitive and is much more satifying that traditional analong stick/button mashing 
 controls. The game uses the rather popular ExciteTruck control scheme. Sonic runs forward automatically 
 through pre set courses . Players hold the Wii remote sideways and tilt it to the left or right 
 to move from side to side. Tilting the remote backwards will make Sonic move in that direction. 
 Jumping and stopping are handled with the 2 and 1 buttons, respectively. Thrusting the remote forward 
 in midair or while locked on to an enemy causes Sonic to execute the now standard homing attack. 
 There are some other great little motion controlled things in here too. For example, if Sonic runs 
 into a catapault, bringing the remote down and back up in a, well, catapaulting motion will hurl 
 the little blue fuzzball way into the air. That all seems pretty simple, almost to a fault right?
 
  
  Wrong. While the on rails style of gameplay is easy enough to pick up, there's a lot going on here 
 to make Sonic a very deep, complex, and just plain weird game. The controls described above are 
 just Sonic's base abilities. The Secret Rings features a progressive, RPG-esque customization system 
 where you can unlock several different powers and use them in any combination. Each ability costs 
 a certain amount of skill points which you gain with the experience points you've while playing 
 the game. Some abilities boost Sonic's base stats, while others allow the player to slow time, 
 perform a speed boost, gain extra attack moves or collect extra rings. You'll rarely ever have 
 enough skill points to use all your available powers, so choosing the right ones is essential (especailly 
 since some levels actually require certain optional ablities to complete) . What's great about this 
 system is that doesn't feel tacked on. Unlike most action games that feature RPG/customization 
 elements, you'll find yourself seriously taking some time to equip yourself just right for the 
 upcoming mission.
  
  Which brings us to the other quriky element of Sonic's latest installment; the mission system which 
 adds a sort of sandbox/open world nature to the game. The game features 7 different levels and 
 one tutorial level, which are broken down into roughly 100 different missions. Each level has a 
 few main goals which mostly just require you to get to the end of the level or perform some specific 
 task. Other missions have more stringent standards. Some require you to finish the level with no 
 rings, beat the clock, race a blue orb to the finish, kill a set number of enemies etc. etc. etc. 
 For this reason, the story is played out in a completely non-linear fashion, you can complete available 
 missions in any order you choose (and you'll usually have a pretty good vareity from which to choose) . 
 Playing missions in one level will unlock other objectives three levels back. Most of the time, 
 you won't end up fighting a level's boss until you've played 3 or 4 levels ahead already. Going 
 back to the same stages over and over could've become a tiresome endeavor, but thankfully many 
 missions have completely different courses or contain new parts of a level you've already played, 
 so you'll want to keep going back to see new parts of the gorgeous worlds featured in the game. 
 Be warned however, that this game is tough. This game is truly old school in that it rewards precision 
 timing and level memorization. If you don't have the patience to master the controls or learn the 
 layouts of the harder levels, you'll die, and die a lot. Like the old Genesis games, Sonic CAN 
 run fast, but improvidently blazing forward with little regard for what's coming up will garner 
 poor results. Any hardcore Sonic fan knows that sometimes you have to play it slow and cautiously, 
 but if you're new to the series or just like your games to be cakewalks, you'll likely become frustrated 
 by the controls quickly.
  
  Did I use the word gorgeous about a Wii game? You betcha'. The graphics in Sonic and the Secret 
 rings are great, easily the best seen on the system so far. The environments are bright, colorful, 
 and nicely detailed. There are some nice textures and lighting effects to be found as well. Couple 
 the surprisingly good visual effects with the neat persian art style, and you've got a beautiful-looking 
 game that will make even the most ardent graphics afficionado raise an eyebrow.
  
  But while this game is great, it has its fair share of problems too. First of all, the quality 
 of the level design is a little inconsistent. Some levels are a joy to play, while others seem 
 pointless chores thrown in to pad out the game's length. Also, the difficulty doesn't progress 
 gradually, it fluctuates wildly due to the non-linear nature of the missions. The game isn't very 
 helpful when introducing you to new powers either. I didn't figure out until well into the game 
 that Sonic doesn't automatically equip his special abilities because it wasn't mentioned anywhere. 
 These instances are in the minority, but they do detract from the game. Secondly, while most of 
 the controls are good, backing up is completely frustrating. Just tilting the remote backwards 
 isn't enough to make Sonic move backwards, you have to flip the the all the way upside down. This 
 is functional, but then you can't reach the face buttons easily. As frustrating as that can be, 
 it's not as bad as the camera is while backpedaling. When moving forward, the camera is right behind 
 Sonic's head, which is fine WHEN YOU'RE MOVING FORWARD. However, the camera doesn't zoom backwards 
 to give you a better view when in reverse, so blindly walking into enemies or pitfalls is frequent. 
 This wouldn't be so bad except that sometimes you just have to back up. It's an inexcusable flaw 
 that could've easily been avoided with a little tweaking. The music, while good in a cheesy way, 
 is pretty repetitive and gets old fast. The voice acting is about as nauseating as you've come 
 to expect from Sonic's 3D incarnations (altough the option to switch to japanese voiceovers is 
 a nice touch) .
  
  None of these flaws is enought to break the game, but they are an annoyance. Also, the game features 
 plenty of unlockable content. You can earn bronze, silver and gold medals for each mission based 
 on your performance as well. There's also a multiplayer mode which is basically Mario Party, but 
 it's pretty much a throwaway and lacks the great presentation of the rest of the game. All in all 
 though, it's great to have it in there.
  
  Sonic and the Secret rings is one of the best Wii games yet. It can be frustrating, but that just 
 makes victory that much sweeter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmashBrosLegend
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2007 10:46 pm PT
Review:  This is the game that Sonic fans have been waiting for. A true 3D console game to help us forget 
 about Sonic the Hedgehog and Shadow the Hedgehog.
  
  We'll start with the atmosphere. At the time of its release, it was the best-looking game on the 
 Wii and its greatest technical achievement. Easily superior to Sonic Heroes in terms of graphics. 
 The art style and setting are somewhat different from previous games in the series, but it still 
 feels like a Sonic game. Its story is based on Arabian Nights, which is a far cry from other Sonic 
 games with original stories. It may be somewhat boring, but you can skip the cutscenes. Who plays 
 platformers for the story in the first place?
  
  Sound is one of the game's largest shortcomings. The American voice-acting is simply terrible, 
 but luckily there's an option to switch to Japanese audio with English subtitles. The sound from 
 the Wii remote speaker works well, but is a bit cheesy at times. The music in some levels is awesome, 
 and in others simply irritating. In the Jungle levels it actually subtracts from the gameplay experience 
 and adds to the difficulty because it is so bad it becomes genuinely frustrating.
  
  Now, we come to the camera and controls, the areas where other recent Sonic games have faltered. 
 Because the game is basically on-rails, most of the camera issues are solved. You'll no longer 
 find yourself barrelling off a cliff at random points in the level or unable to see your character 
 because the camera is stuck behind a wall. The controls work very well, with a few minor flaws. 
 It is fairly easy to get Sonic to do what you want him to do, and this is one of the first Wii 
 games that feels like it was designed with the Wii Remote in mind. Turning, jumping, and attacking 
 are all intuitive and well thought-out. The only real problem is when you have to back-track, but 
 that is only a minor annoyance because you don't have to do it all that often.
  
  The gameplay has a few variations from other games in the series. You have to collect experience 
 points in levels in order to expand your skill rings, which lead to you finding yourself grinding 
 through old stages to grow levels towards the end of the game. Some of the skills that you unlock 
 feel like they should have been available at the start, but they are still fun to obtain. In the 
 beginning, it is a little frustrating that Sonic doesn't have a faster take-off speed because speed 
 is what the series is supposed to be about. It may take awhile to get going, but once you do it's 
 fast and fun. After you have all of your skill rings filled, it can be a great experience to replay 
 old levels and get through them with great ease.
  
  The difficulty varies greatly throughout the game. Some levels are so easy that you feel ripped 
 off, and some are so hard that you want to quit. These inconsistencies are irritating to some, 
 and invigorating to others. You never really know what you're going to get on a level-to-level 
 basis, and it helps to break up some of the monotony of previous games.
  
  Unlike some previous games, the single player mode focuses on Sonic, and delivering the best experience 
 possible with our Spikey Blue Hero. In older games, some of the other characters seemed to get 
 in the way of things more often than not. That won't be a problem in Secret Rings, so don't worry.
 
  
  Another noteworthy part of the game is the mutiplayer. It consists entirely of a small set of minigames. 
 They vary in difficulty and quality, but most of them feel like an afterthought rather than something 
 that the developers spent a lot of time on. Still, they can be fun with friends or in short bursts.
 
  
  Overall, Secret Rings is a great game with a few minor flaws that keep it from achieving a truly 
 outstanding status. It is definitely a step back in the right direction from those awful 360 and 
 PS3 versions. It helps us to remember a time where Sonic was fresh and fun, like in the days of 
 the Dreamcast. Not a perfect game by any means, but a must by for Wii owners, Sonic fans, and platformer 
 enthusiasts alike.
  
  To recap, here are the pros and cons.
  Good:
  +graphics
  +controls
  +art style
  +camera
  +boss fights
  +old-school feel
  
  Bad:
  -sound
 
  -minigames/multiplayer
  -story
  -back-tracking 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicagog19
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is an overall step in the right direction for sonic. It takes out all those side quests 
 and side characters that have haunted 3d sonic games in the past. The controls take a little bit 
 of getting used, but now i can't imagine how I played a sonic game any other way. Moving the controller 
 from side to side to steer sonic very enjoyable. Flicking the controller foward to kill enemies 
 is really strange, but its also pretty fun. The best part of the game is that it take s sonic back 
 to his speeding roots. This game is fast and that is the way it should. If you are craving for 
 a good sonic game, this would be for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gonjulas
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 22, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  I was in a really bad mood when I bought this game cause one of my friends at school called me 
 a... not very nice name and he was being really annoying, but this game cheered me up. I especially 
 enjoy the mini-games theres 40 mini games actually, very good multiplayer. The story line is really 
 funky but the game itself is pretty dang fun. If your a Sonic fan I recommend getting this game. 
 Also if you like racing and action games this is the perfect game for you. O and by the way the 
 graphics are pretty sweet. The music is also pretty cool. Ok fellas peace out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tassadar27
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 22, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  This sonic is great, the gameplay is awesome. You get that feeling of playing the old sonics, which 
 were great. You get to roll around using the wii remote sideways. and there are some great unlockables 
 too. Such as movie clips, songs, and pictures.
  
  This game has really good graphics.. for the wii. Also not only the adventure mode is great but 
 the mini games are awesome too. there are too many to count so you probably wont get bored of them.
 
  
  If you like monkey ball: bananna blitz then you will love this, the story mode and minigames are 
 way better!
  
  Way to go Sega 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -SonicAdvDX
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 22, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is really hard for me to have set feelings on... I will say, that yes, this is the best 
 Sonic game that Sega has released since Sonic Adventure 2: Battle. In fact, the ONLY good game 
 Sega has released since then. But, it's just hard... (By the way, if you're going to read the first 
 paragraph, say I suck, and automatically give me a negative vote, at least go don to the bottom 
 where I list where this game excels. I really like this game, so don't just disagree right off 
 the bat.)
  
  First off, the storyline... What it is... Is something I wish it wasn't... Because this is the 
 first good Sonic game in a very good while, I was hoping that this game would have followed the 
 original Sonic cameo. Sega's done this countless times, where they throw in a couple throw-away 
 characters from a storyline that will never again be mentioned in the rest of the Sonic series. 
 I mean, I can stand adding a few characters, but making a game not set in Sonic's world is going 
 too far. This doesn't even seem like I'm playing a Sonic game at all. I feel like I'm playing an 
 Aladdin racing game. I only wish it had taken place in the Sonic world, not a throw-away storyline.
 
  
  The next thing, is the controls in this game. I'll put it bluntly: They piss me off. Half the time. 
 I like the running and turning and all that stuff, but pushing the remote forward to do a homing 
 attack is a bit much. Why can't we press 2 twice, like in every other Sonic games. Another thing 
 on the jumping, I find myself NOT jumping half the time. I hold down the 2 button, but Sonic seems 
 perfectly content to keep running right into an enemy. And, when I DO get to just, while running, 
 if I don't have enough time to hold the 2 button (because Sonic runs too fast; I mean, that's what 
 he does.) then he gives me this half-ass jump that always sends me into a cactus, or sailing down 
 a pit of lava, or something ridiculous.
  
  Another thing on Sonic running too fast: it's either that, or he's running too slow. There is no 
 perfect, or, in-between speed. Sonic's always either taking a calm stroll for ten minutes after 
 you run into something, or he's going so fast that you sail off the course or slam into some God-awful 
 monster.
  
  Now, the ease of this game is just as sporadic as Sonic's speed. Some levels, I can just sit there 
 and watch Sonic run through the level, without doing anything at all. Other times, I'm re-trying 
 a level 80 times, because I can't get Sonic's jumps JUST RIGHT.
  
  But, there are many ups to this game, don't get me wrong. I actually love this game, despite what 
 I'm saying. The soundtrack for this game is awesome, which, coming from SonicTeam, it always is. 
 (It's the one thing they never screw up.) The graphics in this game are very impressive for a Wii 
 game. (As in, they don't stand up to PS3/360 standards, but it's not supposed to, anyway.) The 
 game gives you a good sense of speed, and really depends on the players' reaction times. So, if 
 you've got a fast brain, or you're a Sonic veteran, like myself, you'll hold up well in this game. 
 The mini-games are a blast, really, they are. I sat playing for six hours, with just three computers, 
 and I never got tired of them. Actually, I hardly found a repeated game in the entire time that 
 I played. Literally, the mini-games in Sonic and the Secret Rings are like Wii Play on steroids. 
 There are so many, I couldn't even be bothered to count them.
  
  The environments in this game are huge and fun. Everything looks so huge and intimidating, but 
 Sonic can always easily overcome them, which is always a very satisfying experience. The cut scenes 
 in this game could really be better, I mean, they must have had absolutely zero in their animation 
 budget, because it's just a few moving pictures for each cut scene. This alone disappointed me 
 to no end, because I always love to see Sonic portrayed in a new way in CG movies. There are a 
 few CG movies, but you have to unlock them in the Special Book. The voice acting is horrible, but 
 every Sonic fan knows the voices and the voice actors, and I myself have grown to love the poor 
 voice acting. It makes the scenes all the funnier, which Sonic is a series based highly on comic 
 relief, so I see it as an advantage instead of a set-back. All in all, everything balances itself 
 out. The game is fun to play, and every level has tons of different missions to play, and most 
 of the time, that means a different experience in the level entirely. Sonic and the Secret Rings 
 is wonderfully diverse and fun; a very creative game. If you're a true Sonic devout, buy this game. 
 If you've heard of Sonic, and your are patient with game controls, buy this game. This game is 
 fun for everyone, so just go out and get it!
  
  ~Adam SonicAdvDX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowkid229
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  What can I say? Well 1) I KNEW IT: This is the game that goes beyond any other Sonic game I have 
 ever played. There isn't any problems, no secondary or other characters, (especially) no Big the 
 Cat (I don't hate him) , which makes it a pure Sonic game that delivers beyond an awesome experience. 
 His friends are ok on multi-player but Sonic is a solo character in my opinion and he is going 
 to be like that for a long time. This game's excellent use of speed and targeting was something 
 that I got used to in a few practices and it feels like the ride never ends.
  2) COMPLETELY WORTH THE WAIT: Looking back at the preview pictures, I had a feeling with that kind 
 of environment, Sonic is running auto (not manually) and using the Arabian Nights tale for the 
 storyline made me think big (That's right, I could not think so big before on games like Sonic 
 the hedgehog for PS3 and XBOX 360, for some reason they just looked 3D having all graphics with 
 no substance) that Nintendo's own console will gain the upper hand on this game. Motion sensing, 
 targeting the opponents, multi-player mini games, and most importantly being in motion and kicking 
 ass, tells us that SONIC IS BEING RESURRECTED, and what a comeback he truly made. Sega, I look 
 forward to the next Wii Sonic game.
  
  To all fans of Sega, Sonic .etc games
  
  Buy it and I guarantee that You won't regret it. If wanna a glimpse of it then rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew_D28
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 21, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Throughout the years along side Mario, Sonic has always been a famous and familiar face of the 
 gaming universe. However as of late, his console games have been shall we say, less than stellar. 
 This trend seems to have ended with Sonic and the Secret Rings for the Nintendo Wii.
  
  Graphics: In this generation of gaming, we've come to expect almost every game we play to be beautiful 
 and Sonic and the Secret rings does not disappoint. The menus and cutscenes are done in a story 
 book fashion to capture the feel of exploring the tale of 1001 arabian nights. The ingame graphics 
 are no joke either. The environments are lush and vibrant, with lots of action going on in the 
 background. This is probably one of the first Wii games by a third party to actually push the Wii 
 technology. The fact that there is no hint of slowdown and support of widescreen format plus progressive 
 scan doesnt hurt either.
  
  Sound: The music in the game is pretty much standard Sonic fare. Either you will like it or you 
 won't. I find it catchy and think they fit each stage nicely, though thats up for debate. The sound 
 effects are great though, from the flare up of Sonic's flame, to the explosions and rushing waterfalls. 
 It all sounds crisp and clear, especially with the supported Dolby pro logic enabled. The voice 
 acting actually sounds pretty good this time around, and the characters lines, whether in game 
 or during cutscenes are actually of good quality as well. The only complaint here is Erazor, the 
 main enemy, english voice actor. His voice just doesnt convey the evil of the character's personality. 
 And for you lovers of the japanese voice actors, there is an option to set the voices to japanese.
 
  
  Gameplay: Sonic and the Secret Rings tries to incorporate a new style of gameplay for the blue 
 blur, a on rails type of gameplay akin to the Panzer Dragoon series. While this may sound restricting, 
 its not. The stages often have branching paths to take, and multiple action scenes such as running 
 away from stampeding dinosaurs, surfing on a log down a raging river, or dodging flying spears 
 and falling stone pillars. The controls in the game are also pretty tight, and the homing attack, 
 now a staple in the Sonic series, has been improved with a better lock on mechanic. This enables 
 players to almost always hit their mark. There is also a experience points based skill mechanic 
 that allows you to power up Sonic with numerous skills, some that make him faster, stronger, or 
 simply improve the controls. Even with all this, the game still has its frustrating points, especially 
 if you dont know the layout of a level, or have the right skills equipped for the challenge you 
 are facing. Another detriment to 3d Sonic games has been the camera system. No more dealing with 
 wonky camera angles here though. Sonic and the Secret Rings incorporates a dynamic camera which 
 tends to give you the best angles to view the action from, and it actually works well.
  
  Conclusion: Sonic and the Secret Rings is a good all around adventure/platforming game, and a great 
 game for a Sonic fan. The gameplay has been improved along with the camera and controls. Though 
 the game is not without its flaws. Some stages can prove challenging, and some challenges might 
 frustrate you, but the frustrating challenges are few and far between. So if you are looking for 
 a new addition to your Wii library and are a Sonic fan, this is a definate purchase. Even if you're 
 not a Sonic fan, you owe it to yourself to at least rent the game and give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raregamer
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 21, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Okay just played through the tranning and the 1st world , the game seems better then when I 1st 
 put it in my Wii for the traning part which is really boring and kind of dreadfull to do. Once 
 I've got a bit more use to the controller the game felt way better to play and you get use to how 
 his garbage jumping works, but feels better when you get use to the mechanic of it. I do say give 
 the game a chance past the 1st level because when you pick up the game from the begining it doesn't 
 really give such a great 1st impression with its tranning course.
  
  So i'm basically saying get past the beginning untill at least the 2nd World and then give it your 
 final thought , because I felt the game doesn't even justify the average reviews at first , but 
 then the game actually got better as you gain more skills and you get use to the controller as 
 the game progresses , I also liked the mini games they're very cool especially as an extra to the 
 game. The game is still an average game and I agree with most of the reviews , This is deffiently 
 the best Sonic game on a Home console for a while now , I'm not counting that in with Sonic Rush 
 cause that was awesome an Sonic game on the DS. Overall I still think it's fun and cool to see 
 Sonic again in a better form. I wouldn't pay more then $40.00 for this game and retail should have 
 had an MSRP of 39.99 I don't think it's really a $50.00 value game so find a coupon or on sale 
 and get it like I did for $40.00.
  
  I would probably give it around a 7.7 if I was to rate it on a 1-10.
  
  +Graphics are really 
 nice especially to see them on the Wii , being it takes advantage of 480P and 16:9. Makes my Sonic 
 look even crisper which is always my favorite thing to see from games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Touchstone7888
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 21, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  This is where Sonic the Hedgehog shined the most. The storyline is much better off this way based 
 on Arabian Nights then it's been for the more current 3D sonic games that's a given. You are always 
 moving at high speeds like in the old school Sonic games, and are always blasting through the badniks. 
 Now let's break it down for a second.
  
  The Good: Controllers which work perfectly to fit the old Sonic the hedgehog we know and love, 
 graphics are incredible. As good as they've ever been in, with spectacular surroundings, and much 
 better enemy designs then in any other Sonic game. Storyline is much better. Finally the camera 
 no longer jumps around since you're always looking forward. And the all time best plus for Sonic 
 and the Secret Rings, you FINALLY play as Sonic The Hedgehog, with adding any excess characters 
 to clutter the scene with.
  
  The Bad: Voice acting is improved, but let's be honest, 4kids is useless when it comes to voice 
 acting. The soundtrack is more then decent, but nowhere near as good as we'd expect from a Sonic 
 game. Even Sonic The Hedgehog 360, which was a horrible game in general had a better soundtrack 
 then this game. Multiplayer is good, but like Sonic Shuffle, it will get old relatively fast at 
 times. But it's still good, and any true blue hedgehog fan can overlook all of these issues.
  
  So overall, it's a surprisingly fantastic game, and a great addition for the wii. Now if only 
 wii was around longer, maybe that'd have put an end to all dilemmas within the Sonic gaming. Forget 
 what any negative review has to say, *namely IGN* if you own a wii, then purchase this game and 
 feel the nostalgia you felt when you first played Sonic for genesis once again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario-Luige
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 21, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Ultimately the best 3-D sonic game I've played!
  GAMEPLAY: Gameplay is innovative and fun. Turn the remote left and right to steer sonic while holding 
 the remote sideways. 2 to jump and thrust foward to dash. So easy, so fun, so great! 10 mout of 
 10 indeed.
  GRAPHICS: The graphics are smooth. Really smooth. Plain old great. 10 out of 10 on a nintendo scale. 
 SOUND: Though a lot of the music is repetetive through the game it is still great music that fits 
 the game. 8 out of 10.
  VALUE: It is more than worth the 50$ definetly a good buy. 10 out of 10.
  TILT: I love this freakin 
 game so much. 10 out of 10. In all rounded this is a great 9.8 out of 10. Good buy and better if 
 you are a die heart Sonic fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariomusicmaker
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 21, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Team should be ashamed of them selfs. I REALLY didn't want to buy this game because of the 
 so called Disasters of the past I think alot of people will feel the same way. BUT DON'T! DO NOT 
 THINK FOR 1 SECOND THAT YOU SHOULD NOT BUY THIS GAME! It is truly great. It almost makes up for 
 the last 10 years of failure. Graphics- I was waiting for the so called 3 times better than game 
 cube graphics Nintendo promised. well here is about 1.5 times better any way.. The enviroments 
 that rip by at break neck speed are wonderfull. well if you get a slow second to stop and look 
 that is. But you don't. This game is wonderfully fast and frame rate is constant ALL THE WAY THRU! 
 I did notice that with out the component cables that the grass and stuff like that starts to look 
 a bit blocky but nothing major or notable . Solution is get component cables.
  
  Game play- for the 1st hour you will be frustrated but after you get the hang of the wild controls 
 you will be tearing threw like no ones Business. Value- I play each level 2 times! Nuff said.
 
  
  Over all - If you Beat Zelda and relay liked it than GET THIS GAME! it is almost as pleasing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigatron
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Remember when Sonic was fun? I sure do. The Sonic series went downhill with EVERY 3D installment. 
 I enjoyed the first Sonic Adventure immensely... on the Dreamcast. The dated and clumsy gameplay 
 of 3D sonic really got bad, especially in Shadow the Hedgehog and the next-gen installment. Things 
 were looking VERY grim... but finally there's hope. Sonic and the Secret Rings for the Wii has 
 now revived Sonic and saved it from the abyss. And it couldn't have come at a better time.
  
  I guess the most successful thing about this installment is that they've completely overhauled 
 the gameplay. No more horrible camera, no more clumsiness. They transformed Sonic into an on-rails 
 action game, and although risky, it pays off VERY much. This game is FAST and FUN, just the way 
 a Sonic game should be. The stages are very well designed, and you'll want to replay them again 
 and again for scores, unlockables, or just for fun. Not only that, but each one of the stages is 
 diverse and full of variety. You hold the controller sideways (think excite truck) , use the 2 button 
 to jump, the 1 button to stop, and the D-pad for special moves. Pulling homing attacks off by thrusting 
 the wiimote is pretty cool, and the experience point system rocks. Now, Sonic has an RPG edge, 
 because you can earn EXP and use it to upgrade your skills, and powers like Time Break are awesome 
 and a welcome addition to the Series. Thanks to some effort and creativity, SEGA has really pulled 
 off some fun and unique gameplay.
  
  The story goes something like this. Sonic is reading Arabian Nights, and a genie tells Sonic that 
 this guy called Erazor is destroying pages of the book. It's up to Sonic to set things right, obviously, 
 and thus the adventure begins. The story is a welcome departure from recent titles, as those stories 
 were too serious and way too surreal. It's a fun premise, and what's really cool is that the Sonic 
 characters are characters in Arabian Nights. Knuckles is Sinbad and Tails is Ali Baba for example. 
 The dialogue is kinda kidsy , but that's just a minor blemish. The music is decent, and the sound 
 fx is spot-on. The graphics are lush and crisp, and full of detail. No matter how fast things get, 
 the framerate holds up. There's also an inspired art style, appealing to the eyes. Great graphics 
 for a wii game.
  
  Aside from the satisfying story mode, there's a 4-player multiplayer mode, which includes dozens 
 of fun minigames. I haven't had a chance to play with friends, but you can put in CPU opponents. 
 The minigames I've played so far are fun, and are better than the half-assed Monkey Ball ones. 
 So if you want a break from story mode, the minigame collection is a fun alternative.
  
  On top of that, there's also unlockables. Unlockable characters, minigames, concept art, music, 
 etc. Overall, this is a promising sign that Sonic does not have a bleak future ahead. Not only 
 is it the best Sonic game in years, but it's also one of the Wii's finest titles so far. I totally 
 recommend it to Sonic fans and action fans alike. This game is blazingly fast, a lot of fun, and 
 there's even some decent multiplayer. So if you've been aching for Sonic's triumphant return, the 
 time is now.
  
  Bravo, Blue Blur. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAgreatest255
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is just amazing!!! I had fun on just the first level, but I have to admit that the controls 
 are a little shaky, and hard to do, but if you by pass that, then you are going to like this one. 
 The environment is life-like, and weird but in a good sort of way. I don`t have much to say since 
 I just got it and I only one level 2, so I am going to go a little slow in this game before I SPOIL 
 it for everyone. I am a die hard sonic fan, and I have to give sega credits for this game, but 
 I do not know how the story went on from SONIC THE HEDGEHOG for the 360/ps3 to this one? The new 
 features like all to 4 player combat to amy all to tails. P. S: I like the cover on the game.......... A 
 true next generation sonic. RECOMMEND THIS IF YOU ARE A DIE-HARD SONIC FAN LIKE YOURS TRULY: DAgreatest255 
 :) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
