-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/driving/sonicriderszerogravity/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Goes fast at times.
 Slingshot turns are interesting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Slingshot turns are also frustrating.
 Super short.
 The story is bad even by Sonic standards.
 Not particularly worth replaying.
 Tilt controls are awful.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 18, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 5.8, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 623 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Sonic Team
Genre: Racing
Date: Jan 8, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Gravity isn't the only thing this mediocre racer is missing. 

  No: In Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity, it still doesn't make sense that Sonic the Hedgehog would need 
 to race upon a hoverboard. That's like Cyclops from the X-Men buying a laser gun, or Iceman a snow 
 cone. And even though there are a couple of speedy thrills, with only a two-hour campaign, overbearing 
 plot, and lame course design, you need this hoverboard racer about as much as Wolverine needs a 
 new set of Ginsu knives.  

  The story is obviously ludicrous. After all, at the core Sonic games have always been about the 
 battle between a talking hedgehog in sneakers and a fat, mad scientist. But Zero Gravity is ludicrous 
 in unexpected ways. The game begins with a rampage ripped straight out of  I, Robot , of which 
 Sonic and company are caught in the middle when an ancient artifact they stumble upon turns out 
 to be a prized possession of the robots' mother. The team investigates, and quickly crosses paths 
 with Dr. Robotnik, who swears he has nothing to do with the calamity, to which Sonic says, "Well 
 I guess for now we'll have to buy that Eggman isn't involved."  

           Bumping into things while flying makes you go faster. Figure that out.      

  Yes, 
 it's that head-slappingly stupid. Even worse, when you finally discover that Eggman  is  involved, 
 it's revealed that the reason he's trying to gather the artifacts and stop the robots from rampaging 
 is so that he can... cause the robots to rampage. But wait, it gets worse. The artifacts are part 
 of this crazy legend involving the Babylon Rogues (a rival hoverboarding team composed of -- what 
 else? -- birds) , and they eventually lead you to a place referred to as "The Crimson Tower," which 
 is, of course, blue.  

  Not only are the plot and dialogue bad even by Sonic's standards, you have to sit through huge 
 chunks of this garbage every time you complete a race. Ironically, the story mode itself is very 
 short, and only takes about two hours to beat. You simply jam through a handful of courses, bang 
 your head against whatever hard object is nearby during the cutscenes, and then, suddenly, the 
 credits roll. After that, your only option is to race through survival, time attack, or world grand 
 prix mode, which earns you credits to purchase "Extreme Gear."  

  The racing itself is all over the place. The basic Wii tilt controls are imprecise, and it's easy 
 to find yourself ping-ponging between walls. You can and should use the D pad, although you can't 
 disable the tilt controls. This means that if you're tilting the remote at all, you'll drift as 
 though you were driving a car with bad suspension. As a result, the Wii version is distinctly less 
 fun to play than the PS2 version. Still, there are a couple interesting ideas at work. If you need 
 to make a real sharp turn, you can hold a button, which slows you down but lets you rotate freely. 
 Once you're pointing in the direction you want to go, you release the button and burst off, as 
 if you were fired from a slingshot. This is an interesting mechanic that is put to creative use 
 in only one level, where you must make hairpin turns over a cliff. The only way to pull one off 
 has you actually hanging in space, before dashing back onto the road. It's thrilling when it works, 
 but it only works half the time. You're also likely to shoot yourself down into the abyss, or up 
 into the ceiling, both of which cause your racer to reset.  

  Slingshot turns are also complicated in that they use energy points. These are accumulated when 
 you make jumps. Jumping is simply a matter of hitting a button as you go off a ramp. The later 
 you hit the button, the more energy points you get. These can be spent on either turns or dashes. 
 If you dash, you move much faster and actually gain additional speed by running into objects (you 
 didn't misread that) . However, if you use all your energy on a dash, you'll eventually come to 
 a tight corner, attempt to jump turn, and be stopped dead in your tracks because you were out of 
 juice. Lots of games penalize you for overusing boost, but none this obtusely.  

  Speaking of obtuse, brace yourself for this next bit about hoverboard power-ups and shortcuts. 
 You see, every board has its own selection of abilities that can be activated in each race if you 
 collect enough rings, which are scattered throughout every course. Take the first board in the 
 game, for instance. If you collect a small number of rings, you'll activate a permanent speed boost. 
 Collect some more, and you'll activate the ability to rail grind. Get 100 on top of that, and you 
 gain a boost to your energy points. By the way, these don't carry over from race to race. Also, 
 there are lots of different types of boards, with lots of different powers.  

           It certainly looks like a Sonic game.      

  But rather than catalog them all, we'll 
 focus on three: grind, wheel, and air. Each of these powers correlates to a type of shortcut. If 
 you can grind, the rails are open to you. All you have to do is jump on one, and you're on your 
 way. With wheel, you can crash through obstacle-laden detours. However, the wheel is generally 
 terrible, and its shortcuts are the worst. And if you have the air, you can fly off a ramp, through 
 three rings, and past your competition. While the concept of three different types of shortcuts 
 is interesting, in practice, none of them are much fun, and they sometimes take longer than the 
 normal route.  

  The graphics are mostly fine, and in a couple of spots, the game manages to convey a real sense 
 of speed. The sounds aren't bad, either. Some of the music is catchy, and it's nice that the characters 
 talk smack every time you pass a rival. Still, the game's overall lack of content makes it one 
 of the last things you'd want to spend 40 bucks on. Even though it manages to capture the occasional 
 burst of Sonic speed, there isn't enough content in Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity to keep you entertained 
 for more than two or three laps.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (57 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: CChannel
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2009 12:12 am PT
Review:  This game had good music and graphics and some pretty cool tricks with a good story line but the 
 controls kinda sucked, the turning was frustrating and to finish a level with out smashing into 
 the side of a wall was almost impossible which was why i said that this game was hard. Personally 
 I didn't use the tilt feature on the wii remote because it didn't really feel worth it at times. 
 I never played the gamecube one nor did i play the ps2 version one, but this game was a fun addicting 
 2 player racing game and I wasnt truly dissapointed. I did find that the characters that you could 
 use was an endless line, there was almost every character there and more! The graphics and movies 
 in the game felt intense and some what satisfying because they also made sense and they weren't 
 all that bad, especially the last movie before the last boss, I loved that movie. They made pretty 
 good usage of characters in there story line although there could have been big improvement in 
 what they did, like some of what eggman did didn't make any sense really.
  
  Overall its a good game to pass the time but unless your a fanatic sonic fan than you may not find 
 hundreds of hours of game time with this game, you might not even finish the game! but this is 
 a game you should buy since it introduces a whole new way of racing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rinnegan_Fan3
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 3:13 pm PT
Review:  The game was fun for a bit, but worse than Sonic Riders. My friends found it too difficult to play, 
 and I don't like how they changed the game's mechanics. They should've kept everything the same 
 as its prequel but just add some more gear, characters, modes, submodes, and stages. ... we probably 
 could've done without a story if the game was like that. It has lost that fun since of high speed 
 and more. For instance: release the trick button at the right time off a ramp and you'll get your 
 ranking, you don't even control your tricks anymore.
  
  Time Value: I only beat the story and unlocked a few characters and gear, the game has more content 
 than its prequel, so if you enjoy the game then it might have a greater time value. {3/5}
  
  Music: It does still keep the excellent soundtrack trend that Sonic series game many times 
 have {5/5}
  
  Graphics: Are much more improved from the last game, seeing it is one the Wii for one thing. They 
 also make the stages look so realistic though {5/5}
  
  Story: Good the first few times, not worth rewatching several times {3/5}
  
  Balance: The characters 
 are balanced, and so is the game with the new mechanics and leveling up designs. However, they 
 balanced the game while sacrificing the fun that Sonic Riders had. {5/5}
  
  Character Roster: Replaced some added 2. The added and replaced characters would've been better 
 Sonic Riders style. {4/5}
  
  Overall: The game was a little fun for awhile, but I stopped playing the game soon afterwards, 
 and worse, I bough it myself. Most games I were bought for me, maybe that is a sign that I don't 
 need to buy games with my own money without renting them first. {2.75/5} 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FayazMalik
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 10, 2009 8:29 am PT
Review:  Sonic Riders Zero Gravity was very disappointing... and I'll tell you why. The game has a very poor 
 and confusing storyline. Plus it's wayyy too short. I must admit, I expected much better of Sonic. 
 I also personally hate the final boss in the Babylon Rouges story. You seem to go very slowwwlllyyy; 
 It's hard to keep in first ( I'm usually 2nd or 3rd) . Plus the track is sooo plain-one grind rail 
 ,and one Air Ride. And I was very cheesed off about how your CPU comrades hit the boss; and it 
 doesn't affect it. And on top of that, I hate how; after all this training, you cannot control gravity 
 at your own free will!! I mean what is that?!? However, the music is pretty good. But overall: 
 It's horrible, Don't buy the game.
  Thank you for taking the time to read my review. If you have any comments, you may email me at 
 "fayaz_ranger@hotmail. com" Peace, Fayaz Malik. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrinityCat
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply disappointing. 
  
  Sonic Riders returns but this time it goes into Zero Gravity, a Gravity that is just too short 
 and begins to drop down fast. 
  
  It has new features like the Wi-Fi connection, new characters, more gear types but it still doesn't 
 save the game a lot. 
  
  The gameplay is just what kills the game. You can't do air tricks by yourself this time, just move 
 the control stick ONE time left, right, up or down and the CPU will do the air tricks. Just awful.
 
  
  The graphics are pretty good, much better than the original Sonic Riders, and basically, it's the 
 only good thing about the game.
  
  Playing with a friend or family will keep the game quite entertaining but not for long.
  
  
 The Wi-Fi is not so good either. You will get disconnected many times. It might not happen to you 
 but it did for me.
  
  The story was OK but it was too short. Cutscenes are OK. Voice acting was OK.
  
  Overall, this 
 is a game that you should rent first to try it but you might or might not regret it. Get the original 
 Sonic Riders, it is much better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superboy68
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 11:08 pm PT
Review:  I didn't expect this game to be this difficult. The zero gravity turns are extremely complicated 
 in the beginning, and even the first level took me 10 tries! I like the gear-changing and the gravity 
 features, but they made this game way too hard. The first game was easier, but this game does have 
 pretty cool features. If you get this game, make sure you're pretty good with turning the Wii-mote 
 around, because even the tutorial was like "How do you do that?" The levels are really good though. 
 But another tihng I found annoying is the fly ramps that go up and down at random. Those screwed 
 me up every time I went to them. I haven't even made it past the 2nd level. Sega, this is probably 
 the 1st game that I've never had a problem with from you. So as I said, make sure you're pretty 
 pro before even attempting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qohelet
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 23, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  When you grab a game from the bargain bin, you aren't expecting an amazing experience. However, 
 the kiddos thought the game looked cool and have really been enjoying driving games... so we picked 
 it up. I don't think it has traumatized them too badly. 
  
  You join Sonic and his friends (and foes) on an adventure to save the world and solve the secrets 
 of ancient Babylon. The plot is conveyed through mini movies with poor dialog and insipid catchphrases. 
 The controls for the Wii leave a lot to be desired and you'll soon be grabbing an old GC controller 
 to complete missions.
  
  The game has some interesting graphics and some fun game play, but it gets old really fast. Each 
 character has a few signature quotes that they reiterate ad infinitum. If you blink too quickly 
 the game will be over. The levels are short and very easy.
  
  If you have young kiddos that watch the Sonic cartoons, this game will be right up their alley, 
 but even then they'll be through it in a week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sagax03
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 19, 2008 3:44 am PT
Review:  3rd review.
  
  sonic riders zero gravity is a new racing game for sonic for the PS2 and wii lets see if it lives 
 up to its name.
  
  Story-tails finds a meteorite ring-like thing which he shows to sonic and knuckles while they are 
 entering a building they are attacked by robots when there hover-car breaks they go on their hover 
 boards and all of a sudden the the ring activates on the hover board (funny it didnt on the car) and 
 the jet attacks. after research the team find out they need 4 other meteorites to open up a temple 
 or whatever. in other words it makes no sence. even for sonic whos story is pretty light this just 
 sucks.
  F-"you got owned by big the cat". 1.5/10
  
  gameplay-this is where it dies. with HORRIBLE controls and gameplay its as bad as racing games 
 can get. just turning like that makes no sence to keep on using gravity. just stupid.
  F-"you got owned by big the cat". 1/10.
  
  Graphics/Design- okay i have to admit the graphics 
 AND the area designs are great, one of the best looking wii games with stages with life and characters 
 that are made great.
  S-"solid snake is to strong he kills everyone". 10/10
  
  voice-acting/- its okay and tolerable.
  D-"pokemon just was owned by dora". 5/10.
  
  overall-4/10 
 it sucks REALLY bad.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zarif99
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Sonic riders ZG isn't the best game they have pulled off. The controlls are really akward and hard 
 to learn. The features in the main menu are really limited and pretty boring and not to mension 
 the main story is pretty dull........ especially the last battle which doesnt make sense. I guess 
 the good sides are that the graphics are pretty cool, especially in stunts and meteor bursts and 
 there is a really wide range of great boards to ride on. When or if you will have a chance of playing 
 this game you will wish that the story had something to make you investigate and not just racing. 
 I got bored even before finishing the game or even touching the campaigns or other menus. This 
 game also lets you down when playing with you friends because they aready get bored when they start 
 playing because the controls are too hard to pick up. Even I still couldnt find out how to kick 
 a giant ball through a goal with gravity controls in a game on the menu. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicdude123
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 7, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  And there we were, thinking that riding a hoverboard would be the most straightforward thing in 
 the world. Turns out we were wrong though.
  
  It's not just the whole balancing thing you've got to keep track of - there are all those stunt 
 ramps to jump over, ensuring you leap as close to the edge as possible while remembering to turn 
 in a direction at the same time to earn gravity points. And finding those straights of track where 
 you can use up said gravity points in one high-speed dash. And turning tight corners using your 
 board's built-in gravity powers. And collecting exactly the right amount of rings to power up your 
 board. And remembering to watch for power-ups, shortcuts and vertical walls that can be ridden. 
 All while trying not to fall off or get squished by anything that gets in your way.
  
  Advertisement:
  If you think that sounds complicated, that's probably because it is. Or, at least, 
 it is until you finally get to grips with it all and decide that maybe, just maybe, this hoverboard 
 malarkey isn't so bad after all. Unfortunately, we're not sure how many people are going to be 
 bothered to push through that barrier. Chances are, many will give up at the fiddly 'what the heck 
 am I doing?' stage that plagues the opening part of the game. And that's a shame because while 
 it's certainly not the best Sonic game around, it still has enough charm to make it worth a look.
 
  
  That Sega has tried to turn a straightforward racing game into something with much more depth and 
 complexity is admirable, although even we're not entirely convinced with the premise. Sonic's homeworld 
 of Mobius is in dire peril! Meteorites are raining from the sky! Once docile robots are now running 
 riot! Dr Eggman's still evil, even though the problems aren't technically his fault! Oh no!
  
  Throw in the return of the still-annoying Babylon Rogues (three thieving birds from the original 
 Sonic Rivals) and you've got all the makings of a 'proper' story that sees you trying to outrun 
 killer robots, uncover secret ruins and save the world from ultimate destruction. The only problem 
 is, it's all just a ruse. Regardless of the task put in front of you in Story mode, it always says 
 in brackets "Finish first!". It's hardly unsurprising - it is a racing game, after all - but even 
 so, it made us laugh.
  
  Tilt And Tumble
  Unintentional humour aside though, we can't say that Zero Gravity isn't fun because it is. You 
 just need to get used to the clunky controls and multitude of elements that stand between you and 
 the ability to play the game with any kind of skill. Rather than feeling like you're in total command 
 of your hoverboard gear, you'll usually find yourself holding the Remote at full tilt, getting 
 increasingly frustrated at your character's inability to copy your actions.
  
  Characters lean lazily into corners instead of turning tightly, often seeing you slam into the 
 wall at the most inopportune moment. With a complete lack of Nunchuk support, the only saving grace 
 is that the D-pad can be used with far more success. After a brief period of mastering that, things 
 become much easier.
  Well, as easy as it can be when the last thing you need to concentrate on is actually racing.
 
  
  You see, winning isn't possible by just holding down the accelerator and taking the racing line 
 as you'd expect - if you don't collect rings to upgrade your gear and then use said upgrades to 
 take the shortcuts specific to your gear's powers, you're guaranteed to lose. It's this element 
 that adds depth to the proceedings because you're constantly looking for new routes through the 
 game's tracks, but it can also prove confusing to begin with.
  
  Complex City
  While the game isn't exactly newcomer-friendly though, it makes up for it in depth because believe 
 us, there's plenty to do. From the main story mode that opens up the 16 tracks, to the multitude 
 of skill-based missions for each one, there's plenty for lone players to do. And if you've got 
 friends? The split-screen multiplayer mode is decent enough too, although the lack of online play 
 is rather disappointing.
  
  Unfortunately, this depth can't mask the more prominent flaws in what should have been an enjoyable 
 little racer and while there's certainly fun to be had, it's buried under a lot of niggling issues. 
 If you can persevere through 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RingCollector
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 30, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Story: The story in this game is crap and does not make much sense at all. Basicily everybody is 
 trying to get these 5 meteorites that can change gravity. If all 5 are collected it will bring 
 an acient starship back to life. Dr. eggman wants the starship to use as a battleship. The Babalon 
 Rouges want the starship to get back to there homeplanet and sonic wants them so eggman cant get 
 them. Basicily what im tying to say is that the storyline is just crap.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are quite nice in this game, both the cutcenes and the background all look 
 nice. One of the best looking wii games around.
  
  Sound/Music: There is nothing wrong or great about the music in this game. The sound effects fit 
 (exept for the end boss, it sounds like an elephant. The voice actors in this game (4kids) are 
 getting as each new
  sonic game comes out. (even though I prefere the old sonic voice actors) .
  
  Wifi: On online 
 play you do not actually race other people you just exchange highscores and can race ghosts of 
 the top highscores. So its nothing special.
  
  Now to what really matters the..
  
  Gameplay: In thes game you can use the wii remote verticily or horozontily or the gamecube controller. 
 I do not recomend the gamecube controller because if you do it will basicily make the game the 
 same as the old sonic riders (even though the gamecube controller is glitch free) . I recomend the 
 wii mote sideways. You can turn by using the contol pad, tiliting the remote or by using gravity 
 wich you can only use a certain amount.
  
  In order to pass someone in a race you must use gravity, which you have a bar of. In order to regain 
 gravity you must do some jumps or get an item bubble. Gravity can be used to turn/drift or to go 
 flying through a stage at intense speeds which you can then bounce of objects (like rocks/walls) 
 for a speed boot and more air. Also you can collect rings in a stage which you can use for gear 
 changes. You can change your gear up to allow to grind/fly get a max speed up ect...
  At the end of a race the rings you have left over will be stored and can be spent on new boards 
 that each have thier own unique abillitys and gear changes and stats.
  
  When you first start you can only do hereos story but after you beat it you can do babalon story. 
 Beating storys can unlock secret characters and boards. Another problem with the story is the fact 
 its to short. If your good you can beat the game in a few hours.
  
  Overall this game is allright but has quite a few of problems. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendoGamer3
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  This is my first reveiw so bare with me..
  
  
  I rented this game from gamefly, played it for like 30 minutes and sent it back cause it was really 
 hard to get used to, and.... Boring. Seriously, you need to stay away from this game.... You might 
 die from playing it :O!!! Lol....
  
  THE GOOD:
  Some courses are fun
  Good characters
  Good graphics in the cut scenes
  
  THE BAD:
  Bad motion controlls
  Very 
 Boring
  Hard to get 1st place (For me at least?)
  Takes awhile to get used to
  Did I say it's boring? Cause it is.
  
  Don't get this game. It seems like every sonic game 
 I play it's plainly awful. So yeah. DON'T GET NEAR THIS GAME! Rent it if you still wanna get it 
 after reading this. (But.. don't....  . )
  
  
  This was my first review. So if it stunk, tell me! I don't mind. :D
  Thanks for reading. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brysterdude
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity puts speed, cool tricks, and unique moves at your disposal!
  
  Speed - yes, speed has been an issue with our speedy friend, Sonic for the past couple of years. 
 But Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity finally puts Sonic back into the in-your-face outrageously fast 
 genre where he belongs.
  
  Cool Tricks - The tricks aren't necessarily being controlled by you, but the way they work is by 
 the timing, while going up a jump you press 2 at the right time and whenever you pressed it (Being 
 to early, just right, or too late) will bring you a stylish trick, no matter when you press it, 
 and all of the characters have there own unique moves. Which is nice.
  
  Unique Moves - There are three types of riders, Speed, Air, and Power. 
  Speed - Sonic, Jet, 
 and Shadow can grind on rails set throughout the level and chain them together for more gravity 
 points and speed.
  Air - Tails, Wave, and NiGHTS can ride on certain platforms and "air ride" all over the place (With 
 the unique chain feature as well.)
  Power - Knuckles, Storm, and Billy Hatcher can break through any barrier with ease, and chain together 
 hitting things.
  
  And finally, the gravity is the best, you can use gravity to your advantage and ride weightless, 
 or use it to turn an extra sharp turn! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -SpikyBlueHero-
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  
  As those who have played, enjoyed, and mastered last-gen's attempt at a racing game worthy of weeks 
 of dedication will surely know, Sonic Riders' complex gameplay elements worked very well with each 
 other. One of the primary reasons why it never caught on with critics was the sheer amount of level 
 memorization and familiarization with the control schemes. And why the heck Sonic needed a hoverboard 
 to race on.
  
  Since then, Sega's decided to assimilate some novel concepts into the original formula whilst discarding 
 some necessary ones contributory to the thrill of the first game. The result is a solid first impression, 
 morphing into a degraded experience as you continue your progress beyond the brief story mode and 
 into the remaining modes of play.
  
  
  ----------------------------------------------- Critical Analysis -----------------------------------------------
 
  
   
 - 3/5
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  
  If you've taken a go at the first Sonic Riders, by the end of a lap in ZG you'll be well aware 
 that this is very much unlike the former. It's still one of the most complex racers around with 
 many unique characteristics, and as such, only the important aspects of the game will be touched 
 on in this review for the sake of the length of it.
  
  As with the original Sonic Riders, there are two intertwining story modes that fail to satisfy 
 the series' search for worthwhile plot material. Some weird rings fall from the sky, MeteorTech 
 robots go berserk, and Sonic must embark on a quest to discover why these mechanical loonies are 
 attracted to them. Yada, yada, yada. It's not much, and in the end, only serves as an undercooked 
 appetizer to set up the locales you'll be racing through afterwards and the different abilities 
 the characters acquire.
  
  Two of these new abilities, Gravity Dive and Gravity Control, are immediately put into play (and 
 question) and must be utilized at specific sections of every track in order to snatch 1st place. 
 The tutorial mode does an adequate job of introducing these gravity actions, along with several 
 other techniques you'll use throughout the game. (It's a step up from '06, right? No more lame 
 video tutorials.) This was a no-brainer addition, and it, along with the game's lack of speed (ironically) , 
 render this spin-off mini-series more approachable than ever.
  
  It might come as a surprise, then, that this sequel isn't "better" and "faster" than its older 
 brother. Well, in the end, that's the bloody truth of it all, truth be told and truth be said. 
 It still has some creative and interesting ideas that would fit well into a third installment, 
 so let's take a quick look at those.
  
  In contrast to keeping your Extreme Gear unchanged throughout the entire course of a race, E-Gear 
 can now be modified and morphed into more advanced machines than when you started. It's similar 
 to "level-ing up"-via-Rings found in the first game, but instead of gaining attack power, Rings 
 are used to upgrade your E-Gear, and the player is now required to gather a certain amount of them 
 in order to utilize speed-type rails, flight-type hoops, and power-type obstacles. In addition, 
 they can also increase your GP gauge and allow your max speed to be increased. It may not be the 
 gear customization we were hoping for, but isn't it wild to watch your ride morph into something 
 else on the fly? (Transformers proved that, didn't it?) Really, there's much more emphasis on E-Gear 
 this time, rather than your character. For example, if you choose Jet the Hawk, a speed-type, and 
 his E-Gear features flight ability, you'll only be able to use flight-type areas during the race. 
 Needless to say, shortcuts are now more accessible and less exclusive to type.
  
  The game's track design appears broader, both in width and length, allowing for increased reaction 
 time to endless pits and other hazards. Trick ramps have changed in that instead of traditionally 
 charging your jump, a button must now be pressed with precision timing at the very tip of a ramp 
 in order to nail a perfect rank and subsequent height increase. This would've been fine if we were 
 able to perform our own moves like we did two years ago, but that's not the case here. The predetermined, 
 preset trick that follows is cool to watch, but less engrossing than cramming in multiple 360's 
 with your thumb, y'know?
  
  If your friends are willing to sit down and play ZG, but aren't quite ready to race by themselves 
 due to humiliation, the game's relay mode may be right for you. Together, you can achieve more, 
 by taking turns running laps around a course. Also available is a soccer-ish mode of sorts, great 
 for honing your Gravity Control technique. Lastly, a renovated battle mode awaits, where launching 
 rockets at your competitors is key to becoming the champion. These are all very solid extras, but 
 there's only three of them?
  
  Speed-wise, all racing games hinge on it. It's what they are. The very essence of all in the genre. 
 Pair Sonic with racing, and the immediate thought is a propensity for Mach 5. Pepper in some ingredients 
 that restrain an object moving at that speed, and you've got a jet that's not doing all that it 
 can. It has the potential to take off and soar, but some atmospheric elements are littering the 
 aerial path.
  
  Gravity actions affect Zero Gravity in much the same way, along with many vital omissions that 
 worked well with the previous Riders formula. Strange, as you'd think that a sequel would be more 
 furious, faster, and more "better" than its predecessor, all-around. Stranger still, ZG's speed 
 varies so inconsistently, it's hard to gauge a summariness of it.
  
  With the advent of gravity usage, naturally, air refuel hubs aren't needed any more, which means 
 adios to mid-race, on-foot scrambling. Instead, the original air meter is replaced with a Gravity 
 Points (GP) meter, used for executing Gravity Dives and Gravity Control. If it's empty, you can 
 perform neither. GP is gained through the use of trick ramps and rails, flight rings, and barging 
 through stuff (depending on your character/Gear-type) . All this may sound like a solid direction 
 for the series, but was South the direction Sega had in mind?
  
  First of all, we mourn the loss of two key contributors to the Sonic Riders experience. Their names? 
 Boost and turbulence. Boost was good to us because we were able to issue forth a sudden jolt of 
 velocity, whenever we pleased, wherever we pleased, just as long as we had the air to start it 
 with. It lent us a hand after a pitfall and offered us the opportunity to mar fellow friends with 
 awesome attacking power as we flew by them. Turbulence found us sailing at high speeds, helping 
 us catch up to that 1st-placer leading up to the finish line. We were able to perform gnarly tricks 
 without the sole reliance of a trick ramp. Although you can still be found in Zero Gravity, it 
 just isn't the same as the old you...
  
  Pardon that. Yes, they're gone, and it's rotten. Without boosting and turbulence-riding, what's 
 left is an experience that questions why they left. Gravity Dive's there, but it ends up feeling 
 more like a drag racer technique than a practical one, and can only be done on a long, straight 
 section of a track for full effect. Gravity Control is a clear replacement for slide turns, and 
 depending on the situation, slows the game down to a standstill. Once you finally point in the 
 direction you want to face and release whatever button it was that you were holding, the pace resumes 
 with exploding debris zooming ahead of you.
  
  Uncontrollable events such as getting whooped by an opponent, having your gear parts taken away, 
 or obtaining a speed-hindering "power-up" are always morale-reducing, as it takes a while to achieve 
 full speed again once the effects cease their inhibition. The track design, although open and broad, 
 is often flawed, and if you accidentally collide with a wall, have fun recovering from it. Most 
 of the courses are flat, and gravity is NOT your friend on them.
  
  On the flip slide, some tracks ARE designed very well. Gigan Rocks in particular features ultra-steep 
 slopes, and the feeling of smoothly sailing down them at breakneck speeds can be overwhelming the 
 first few times through, without a hint of a framerate drop. If you're not placing well during 
 a race, insane "fury" power-ups allow your chosen character to charge down the track, and wallop 
 anyone he crosses paths with. It's short-lived moments like those that should've dominated the 
 game, instead of idly waiting for your bloody E-Gear to accelerate.
  
  
  
 
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  
  Critics have been complaining. And whining. And snarling. And cursing. And God-knows-what-they've 
 been saying about Zero Gravity's Wiimote-control responsiveness. Are they super-glued to their 
 analog sticks, gripping their GCN controllers, and wondering why-oh-why the Classic Controller 
 was ignored? Or does it simply fall down to the fact that they flat-out despise holding the Wiimote 
 horizontally? Sadly, we may never know. But hear this, impatient ones: The Wiimote WORKS if you 
 remember to insert a fresh set of batteries before playing!
  
  Honestly. With a bit of practice, your Wiimote will be receiving the love and attention it deserves, 
 because the horizontal control scheme truly is the best pick of the three. Unless you have awful 
 hand-eye coordination or your balance is as unsteady as your stomach is while viewing the romantic 
 pre-matrimony of Sonic and a certain human princess, you'll do absolutely fine. The vertical Wiimote 
 setup was an experiment, at best. The GameCube controller is sufficient, but static. Even though 
 gravity moves should've been left in the prototype phase, it feels natural to flick your wrist 
 to execute a Dive, shift your arms during a sharp turn, and navigate the track with spot-on motion 
 control responsiveness. 
  
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Graphics - 4/5
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  
  For some strange reason, Sega seems to have a massive obsession with motion blur. It looks wicked 
 while doing Gravity Control. Especially within the industrial tracks, where lights are abound, 
 just waiting to get smeared about. Another hooray for the use of water effects. In Aquatic Capital, 
 water reflections are true to science, and more often than not, H20 will kick back behind your 
 racer and fly onto the screen behind him for even more realism. As far as texture is concerned, 
 there's some noticeable fuzziness here and there, but the pace (slow as it can be) , masks this 
 nuance. Most textures are actually very pronounced.
  
  The characters themselves look superb, detailed, and continue to show their zeal for wearing sunglasses 
 on their foreheads. And get this: Cream has real-time ear physics. That alone is enough reason 
 to dislike her all over again. All we need is mustache physics for Eggman, and then some. Extreme 
 Gear is shiny, and Sega somehow managed to pull off making them more futuristic-looking, as well 
 as adding three additional types. (Just for kicks?) Why did they undergo this theme adoption? Again. 
 Shiny. Sega likes shiny just as much as it enjoys employing epic CG cutscenes. Those haven't been 
 forgotten, of course, and as usual, might raise your heartbeat count by twenty versus a standard 
 BPM during the other story cutscenes.
  
  All in all, polished and impressive. Yet another testament that the Wii is indeed maturing in the 
 graphical sector. However
  
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Presentation
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  
  Snore. Your basic, humdrum interface. Close to an exact replicate of the first Riders' menu system, 
 but with increased generic-ness. Story modes, missions, multiplayer, heck, even the little chow 
 shop's returned. Surprise. (He's upped the ante even further with his prices, mind you. See, America's 
 poor economy spares nothing. Even Mobius is in the rough.)
  
  There are leaderboards available for you to post your high scores in (if you can actually manage 
 to get 'em on there) , and you can download ghost data from the top players. No online co-op/versus 
 modes, however. Something many have wished for. Ultimately, this game may not suffice for those 
 who are online-savvy.
  
  
   
 - 3/5
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  
  One final menu complaint. Its background theme consists of eight notes, more or less. EIGHT NOTES! 
 Surely Sega could do better than that. Even the main theme is ridiculously unintelligible. The 
 in-game BGM, however, is rather nice, which is great, considering that this is what you'll be listening 
 to the most. Triggering a gravity action results in a music transition, which is quite genius, 
 even though gravity action itself is a bit of a stinker.
  
  It's all liver and onions from there, however. Disrupting the aforementioned music change is your 
 character's pointless exclamation as he bounces from one piece of flying debris to another. Tails 
 in particular satisfies your daily dose of annoyance. "Let's go!... Let's go!... Let-Let's-Let's 
 go!" The unlockable characters are possibly the best in the roster due to their silent dispositions.
 
  
  The voice acting is unsurprisingly lackluster, and the story is, in Sonic tradition, chock full 
 of it. But you'll only need to sit through it at least once, and come the final stage, you might 
 just be relieved that you're free from listening any longer. But perhaps more irritating than the 
 new voice work is the occurrence of the old, which is recycled incessantly. Sega squeezed in quite 
 a few voice clips from the first game, not even bothering to create a new race results theme.
 
  
  
   
 - 3/5
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  
  Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity isn't a "bad" game, and certainly doesn't qualify in the "worst Sonic 
 games ever made" lists that are so common nowadays. It'll surely disappoint, to an extent, anyone 
 who loved the prequel, but those same people should try to appreciate the good aspects the game 
 has to offer. Even still, you're not to be blamed for thinking, "Sega! You had a good thing going 
 there! Why did you trash air for gravity?!" 
  
  They say three's a charm, so here's to Sonic Riders 3: Zero Gravity WHATSOEVER.
  
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: juansonic7
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is the worst Sonic Game ever made, and everybody knows that no body liked the first one 
 so why a sequel? Its the most stupid excuse for a Sonic Game. The first one at least makes some 
 kind of sense but the sequel doesnt make any sense at all!
  Story:
  Its not that bad but , again, makes no sense. Why is Sonic on a board? in the first one at least 
 makes sense because he was on the Grand Prix but now hes not on a competition, so why is he using 
 a board? He likes to use his feet! He loves to run! Theyre ruining Sonics personality!
  3/10
  Gameplay:
  You are going to crash against everything and sometimes it doesnt respond 
 to the controls. The level design is bad. It goes fast I have to admit but sometimes you will crash 
 against walls and will lose speed wich is ok but then it takes a lot of time to be fast again. 
 It also has some glitches but they are not many.
  4.5/10
  Music:
  Not as good as other Sonic Music.
  6.5/10
  Cast:
  Passable to good sometimes and other just 
 passable.
  7/10
  Graphics:
  Horrible, the gameplay cutscenes are horrible, so is the animation, it has the same graphics as 
 Sonic Riders but for 2006 it was ok but for 2008 is bad. But in Sonic Riders Zero Gravity this 
 time they look ugly. But i have to admit that the GC scenes are good.
  5.5/10
  Overall:
  The Game is bad and please not another SEQUEL! I think Sega learned the lesson. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverblur007
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Sega has made a sequel to the original racing hit, Sonic Riders. One of the things in this game 
 that was good was the return of the Babylon Rouges (Jet, Storm, and Wave) . The plot is a bit more 
 exciting than the original Sonic Riders. There are two sides to the story, the Heroes side and 
 the Babylon side (to unlock Babylon story you must complete the Heroes story) . The main plot shared 
 with both stories is to try and find all five "Arks of the Cosmos". i liked the diversity between 
 how both stories started out and ended. If you start out with Heroes story you start at Megalo 
 Station trying to avoid berserk robots while escaping with a mysterious meteorite. if you choose 
 Babylon story, you start out in the Gigan Rocks while trying to escape with a stone when a trap 
 is set off. What I didn't like about this game was some of the missions you could do being very 
 hard and difficult to accomplish. The controls are also difficult to master and take time to do 
 successfully, but if you can't master the controls with the Wii remote, plug in a Gamecube controller, 
 and play it like the original Riders. If you are looking for a decent racing game with a storyline, 
 this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSmokeNinja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  I like this game and I personally don't see why I got such a low score. I like this game and here 
 are my reasons as to why I like it:
  
  The graphics: The graphics are good because they were colorful, and during the very first cutscene 
 in the game it look very realistic.
  
  The levels ( The tracks) : I also thought that this game had a great level design. The tracks all 
 had something in common, they all seem to be futuristic and they had many different pathways and 
 some of those pathways were only accesible by using gravity drift.
  
  The gravity control: This was very useful to me when I had to turn tight corners on the game or 
 take alternate routes throughout the level, and that was called gravity drift. The other which 
 was meteor burst was useful when I was behind in a race and I used that to get back in 1st place 
 it also helped me win races, and when you bump into something you go faster, which I thought was 
 pretty nice
  
  Those were all the good things about the game but there was only one bad thing... and that was 
 the missions. It was hard trying to unlock Super Sonic but its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesupersonic
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  thats right! sega has created another wonderful sonic game-this time its a sequel to the first 
 sonic riders! the game is really fun, unlike what those fools at gamespot say! whats wrong with 
 the game? its awesome! but nooooo they dont care they can only care about how 'classic' the game 
 is to the older sonic titles! whatever! ok anyways the story mode is still kinda short but easier 
 than the first ones (remember sky road, folks?) the plot is that there are these things that came 
 out of the sky known as the arks of the cosmos that hold special gravity powers inside of them. im 
 not gonna tell you anymore-youll have to just play!
  there are three control types-gamcube controller-wii remote held side ways-and wiimote pointed 
 at the screen. just stick with the gc controller-its easier!!!
  
  simply put, it is another great sonic title that only real fans who love all sonic games should 
 check out!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecoolhh
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 24, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rider Zero Gravity is the sequel to the original Sonic Riders and it is a complete waste 
 of money.
  
  Gameplay: 5/10
  
  The campaign story makes no sense. Controls are horrible and the multiplayer is mediocre. Few characters 
 and tracks also make it very boring.
  
  Grpahics: 6/10
  
  Graphics are okay but i have seen PS2 games with better graphics. Character models look ok but 
 still need a lot of work.
  
  Sound: 2/10
  
  Characters sound stupid and music is very lame.
  
  Overall this game is pure crap and is not 
 a good racer. If you want to get it then get it on the PS2 because the Wii's controls murder the 
 game and make it even more like crap. So my biggest problem with this game is it's horrible controls 
 and for that it almost makes the game unplayable so try to avoid this game even if your a Sonic 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomrings
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 23, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  If you liked the first Sonic Riders, or any Sonic game having to do with racing, this is for you. 
 But there are a lot of things in the first one that were better. Some things went bad and some 
 things improved. Plus the lack of online play won't keep you amused for long, and neither will 
 the beat-in-one-night story. In fact, there are two stories for you to play in. Just like in the 
 first Riders, there's a "Heroes" and "Babylon" story for both teams, the second one being a stage 
 longer and you have to beat the first story to unlock it. The branching paths can be fun to play 
 through but the story is just a bunch of races against enemies that aren't worth the trouble to 
 unlock. After the stories there is a mission mode to add a few more hours on, but some of it seems 
 too easy, though a good way to add up money for those extremely over priced vehicles. If you haven't 
 played either Riders, the first one is much better, funner, and addictive. The story's just as 
 bad (if not worse) and you can't do everything with one character that you can do with another, 
 but it's a more creative, challenging, and dragged-out game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AK_the_Twilight
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog is one of the video game industry's most treasured characters, but he's also 
 been one of its biggest punching bags. Sonic's legacy as one of the platformer genre's most legendary 
 stars has risen in modern times like Sonic Rush and Sonic Rush Adventure, but his 3-D repertoire 
 has become shaky. While the Dreamcast Sonic Adventure games were amazing, Sonic has been dragging 
 his feet in modern games like Sonic the Hedgehog for the 360 and PS3. He's also been in so many 
 different game releases, possibly second only to Mario, and with each new spinoff it feels that 
 the poor guy is getting exhausted, game quality slipping as well. I say this as a long-time fan; 
 I remember playing Sonic the Hedgehog games on my first console, the Sega Genesis, and absolutely 
 loving the high sense of speed, great graphics, and excellent balance of challenge and score-climbing 
 skill. A few years back we got Sonic Riders, a futuristic racing game featuring Sonic and crew, 
 and while Sonic Riders was competent to a degree, it was downright forgettable. I mean, Sonic is 
 the fastest thing alive, right? Why challenge that with a racing game? Well, Sega isn't about to 
 let this spinoff series die, hence the release of Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity for the Wii. Is it 
 worth your time at all?
  
  Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity features everyone's favorite blue hedgehog and his colorful crew of 
 characters. Upon hanging out with his buddies Tails and Knuckles, Sonic discovers a strange meteor 
 crash landing on Earth. Sonic finds out that the meteor is a special stone that allows him to control 
 gravity, that and there are five of them. Apparently, there are some rogue robots on the loose 
 who wish to control the stones, along with Sonic's rivals, the Babylon Rogues, and Sonic's long-time 
 nemesis Dr. Eggman. What you get is another "hunt for the treasures" storyline, but sandwiched 
 in with some robot battling and an ancient Babylonian myth. I'm sorry, but this is a really, REALLY 
 bad storyline. If the first Sonic Riders didn't confuse you with its emphasis on "Extreme Gear," 
 then Zero Gravity will leave you speechless. It's awful and forgettable, but to unlock most of 
 the serious content, you'll have to persevere through the whole thing.
  
  So let's talk controls. The good news is that there are three setups: horizontal Wii Remote, vertical 
 Wii remote, and Gamecube controller. The bad news is that the first two controls don't work. The 
 whole gist of the Wii Remote setups is that you tilt the Wii Remote to turn. The problem is that 
 the tilt recognition is poor and in such a fast-paced game where perfect the turns is essential, 
 that just won't do. Fortunately, the Gamecube controller works fine, though you'll probably feel 
 like Zero Gravity is just Sonic Riders 1.5 that way. New to the mix are some gravity defying abilities, 
 like controlling gravity to match a tight turn or riding the air minus gravity to blast down straight-aways. 
 These are actually pretty cool and add a dimension of speed to the game. If you can get a handle 
 on the controls, then the game moves well and quickly, though getting a handle on the tilt controls 
 is a feat itself.
  
  Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity offers a few twists to the racing formula. Performing tricks (or typically 
 pressing the jump button at the end of a ramp) charges up the characters' GP, or Gravity Points, 
 special points that let Sonic and crew use their Gravity powers. Collecting rings during races 
 charges up Gear Changes, different modifications to the Extreme Gear. The modifications can range 
 from a speed boost, to special abilities like Tails' ability to fly through air rings or Knuckles' 
 ability to punch through obstacles. These do add a cool dimension to gameplay, and keeping both 
 GP and Gear Changes balanced can be a challenge. Different characters can go through different 
 shortcuts depending on their Extreme Gear and they do show a much better emphasis than the original 
 Sonic Riders. The track design, however, though it encourages shortcuts and multiple routes, is 
 awfully bland and repetitive (most of the time) and considering that there's a very small amount 
 of tracks, there is a serious lack of interesting ideas in the design.
  
  As far as options go, there's a decent amount of content. The Story Mode is purely for unlocking 
 courses and the whole thing can be completed in about a day. There's also some Time Attack, Survival 
 and Grand Prix modes, along with the ability to purchase new Extreme Gear by spending rings. New 
 to the mix is an online support, though there's no online racing. There's a leaderboard and downloadable 
 ghost data, but you won't be able to compete head-to-head against online opponents. If you can 
 overcome the issues of Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity, you'll find a lot of things to do, but since 
 many of the mechanics are broken and the courses so bland, this may be more an ordeal than expected.
 
  
  Graphically, the game actually looks okay. It pales in comparison to a game like Super Mario Galaxy, 
 but Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity has some good graphics and cosmetic track design. The cutscenes 
 are animated well and the different tracks offer some interesting cosmetic twists. Some have a 
 tendency to be pretty similar, but for the most part, the game looks pretty good. The sense of 
 speed is definitely worthy of merit; it moves without a hitch. Sound-wise, you basically get what 
 was the original Sonic Riders had. There's a cool mix of techno playing in the background and the 
 sound effects are okay. The voice-acting is still polarizing: I personally found the voice acting 
 to be cheesy and confusing, especially Jason Griffith's performance of Jet, who sounds in dire 
 need of a throat lozenge. But we've dealt with weird voice work in the Sonic universe for years 
 now, so there's no point in complaining now.
  
  Pros
  + Nice sense of speed
  + Lots of things to unlock
  + Compatible with the Gamecube controller
  
  Cons
  - Wii controls 
 are horrible
  - Story Mode is short and poorly written
  - Course design is sloppy
  
  Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity is much better than its predecessor, but quite honestly, that's not 
 saying much. The Wii controls are messy; you can't remove the tilt controls and the D-Pad turning 
 isn't any better. If you have a Gamecube controller, stick to that, though you will then feel that 
 the main premise of the Wii controls is wasted. If you can deal with the controls (or you have 
 a Gamecube controller) the rest of the game is actually pretty adequate. The new Gravity abilities 
 add a new dimension of speed and the entire game moves at a good clip. It's not as fast as F-Zero, 
 but the game manages to produce some quick action and some good looking courses. Navigating the 
 courses, however, is a pain due to some incredibly simplistic, though sloppy design. You'll no 
 doubt be bouncing off the walls trying to regain control only to lose a first place finish from 
 one mistake. Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity isn't horrible; it's just underwhelming. The game has its 
 moments of high-intensity and over-the-top racing, but beneath the presentation are poor controls 
 and generally broken mechanics. If you're looking for the next great racing title, avoid Sonic 
 Riders: Zero Gravity and pick up a Mario Kart or F-Zero title. If you liked Sonic Riders, then 
 Zero Gravity delivers the same experience, at the expense of its default controls. Anyone else 
 may like it as a rental, but its mechanics and controls are too poor to be worth a serious purchase 
 in that case.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StillFreeTagger
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Riders introduced futuristic hoverboard racing. But what usually do we think of within the 
 spectrum of future? Zero Gravity! Sega and Sonic Team released another racing game focusing on 
 this core mechanic!
  
  To get this out of the way, yes the opening of Zero-G is a lot like I, Robot. I couldn't help but 
 put this together... hehe!
  
  MeteoTech Robot: You are experiencing a car accident!
  Knuckles: *rises from his seat* The hell we are!
  
  But the real story is this. Strange ring 
 like objects are falling from the sky. They have the power to control gravity. Sonic and friends 
 are able to get a hold of one. However, MeteoTech robots are also after them!
  
  Zero-G adds action-packed zero gravity moves to the already good Sonic Riders formula. However, 
 some features have been changed. The Babylon Rogues also make a return.
  
  Zero Gravity moves include the Gravity Dive and Gravity Shot. Gravity Dive allows you to burst 
 forward in air. Hitting objects will make you go faster... hmmm? Gravity Shots helps you with sharp 
 turns. Note to use Gravity Shot early on a sharp turn, or you'll lose your footing. These moves 
 can only be used if you have air in your Gear and are a joy to use.
  
  Grinding and such has changed. Now Extreme Gears have Gear Changes. To grind, air ride or smash 
 through walls, you'll need to transform your Gear into the right mode. This requires rings. There 
 are other Gear Change effects, but they're minor and don't do much.
  
  The graphics have improved over the last Sonic Riders and so have the tracks. Not as glossy or 
 smooth as Sonic and the Secret Rings, but Zero-G's graphics seem to resemble that of Super Smash 
 Bros. Brawl. The tracks this time around take place in the same general area, but are not carbon 
 copies of each other like last time and play out differently. My favorite two tracks were deffinetly 
 the fast waterways of Aquatic Central and Tempest Waterway!
  
  WARNING! READ THE ABOUT THE CONTROLS! The Wii controls in this game are useless! The tilting is 
 horrible and the d-pad is no better! Performing successful Gravity Shots is near impossible! Instead, 
 use the Gamecube controller. It works a whole lot better. Performing tricks has changes along with 
 the whole control scheme. No longer can you choose the direction and number of tricks. How early 
 or late you jump off a ramp will decide your trick. Again, USE THE GAMECUBE CONTROLLER. Do it, 
 less you want to see your Wii-mote sticking out of the TV screen.
  
  Sound in Zero-G has also improved from the first Riders game. A great techno theme called "Un-Gravify" 
 by Cashell, plus track songs that are upbeat and fitting of their environments.
  
  Once again, story mode has the Hero story and Babylon story. Once again, both can be beaten within 
 a day. Mission mode is a lot easier this time. Those super secret Sega characters will be easier 
 to achieve. There are a lot more Gears available for purchase, many a reference to another Sega 
 franchise.
  
  It's hard to say if Zero-G is an improvement of Riders or not. Still enjoyable, yet once again 
 Sega can do better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AweWiiGamer1
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 31, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  There are just some games in life that should really have no sequels at all. Sonic Riders is one 
 of the many clear examples of that statement. The orginial Sonic Riders was a game that tried hard, 
 but really had nothing going for it to truly take off, and now Sega land it with the sequel called 
 Zero Gravity, and well, the title's called Zero Gravity, right? Well, Sega, how about stick Zero 
 Fun onto it as well while you're at it. Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity is Sonic's step yet again into 
 his big blue grave.
  
  Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity contains the same basic premise of the first Sonic Riders. You play 
 as Sonic, Knuckles, Tails and characters from Sonic Fighters such as Beak, and race on hoverboards 
 in a futuristic Sonic world. The premise for Zero Gravity is decent, but, just like the previous 
 Sonic Riders game, it's all due to one thing... the controls!
  
  Zero Gravity can require these following control systems: Wii Remote and Nunchuck, the Wii Remote 
 held vertically, and the Nintendo GameCube Controller. You use the Wii Remote to tilt your racer 
 forward, left and right, and everything else, and use 2 to perform the impressive stunts in Sonic 
 Riders. Yeah, the stunts would be impressive if the controls were RESPONSIVE! Sega really rushed 
 this title, because the controls are so clunky.
  
  The only redeeming qualities of the game are the game is visually quite decent with a lot of colour 
 and life, and a nice sci-fi like design, and the music has some decent renditions of classic Sonic 
 themes such as Emerald Hill Zone but that is really it. Sonic Riders Zero Gravity is yet another 
 poor 3d sonic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TristanH12
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 20, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity is the pseudo-sequel to the previous generation's Sonic Riders. Everything 
 is still intact with the racing formula: race around on various tracks in various locations with 
 a story involving different teams taking on Eggman.
  
  There are several modes of play. The main mode in which players can unlock the unlockables is the 
 story mode. Once a player enters story mode they play through as Team Heroes (Sonic, Knuckles, 
 and Tails) , and go through the various cutscenes and locations to track down the Power Rings (Stones) 
 in an effort to reach and discover the secret of Babylon. It is an interesting story that is told 
 through high power cutscenes, sometimes with over the top voice work, and rocking music. The story 
 is quite predictable at one point but nonetheless by the time the final race comes, players will 
 ask themselves, "is it over already (simply put the story can be finished in only 3 hours) ?"
  
  The main mode offers players several types of play. They will usually range from either getting 
 first place, accomplishing some feat (especially in the tutorial mode) such as grind on this, or 
 do not break anything, or simply finish before the time runs out. It is an interesting concept 
 that keeps things different and from getting dull.
  
  Where the game really struggles is in the controls department. Players are given the choice of 
 playing with either the Wii remote or the Gamecube controller. The Wii remote would be the best 
 option since this is a Wii game and one would not have bought the Wii remote not to use it. Sadly, 
 players who play in this style will have a tough time winning a race or even being able to accomplish 
 the feats. I struggled through the tutorial using the controls and gave it up in the story mode. 
 The most difficult part of the controls is that not only are you holding it horizontally (leaning 
 it forward to move forward) , but that you have to actually jerk the remote to use boost and other 
 things. This becomes a major hassle for either it is insensitive or too sensitive. I also found 
 that one would keep moving backwards and go slow instead of moving forward. Either way, the controls 
 are difficult and hard, possibly impossible to master. The Gamecube controller delivers the more 
 natural feel and delivers the easier style of play. With practice, one can actually master the 
 Gamecube controls and have an easy time getting through the rest of the game. 
  
  Graphically the game seems to be on the spectrum near the area with the nearly good Wii graphics. 
 The cutscenes seem to be the only glaring flaw that I find. The problem with them is that the character 
 models look a bit dated in the way that they lack much detail and textures. The font is sadly too 
 big as well. Racing wise, everything flows smoothly together, the locations and textures are on 
 par with the Wii's graphical standards, and everything just simply looks amazing when running by 
 it at fast speeds.
  
  As always with Sonic games, they have amazing soundtracks. Sadly this one only features two tracks 
 with vocals ("Ungravitify" and "Catch Me If You Can", "Ungravitify", which is the main theme, sounds 
 amazing and when it plays in the cutscenes I had to smile and congratulate myself for picking such 
 a great game, regardless it fits each cutscene well) . The tracks for each of the levels are definitely 
 the best, such as the track that plays on "Babylon Garden" and the "Through Traffic" one) . The 
 characters voices sound great as well. The only flaw only lies in perhaps the lines that the storyboard 
 writers gave them in the mode, though in one of the scenes I did have to laugh at Wave when she 
 told Storm something about wishing on the star, it sounded hilarious) . Regardless the games sounds 
 are good.
  
  A few final things to note are that the only issue with the game is the control scheme. After mastering 
 the basic controls, one has to master the intricate system involving the powerups. Using the various 
 powerups and upgrades will not only allow one to win with a great margin of victory but also to 
 be able to take the many alternate paths (such as grinding or flying) . I think it is a challenge 
 to master these and to remember everything that the tutorial teaches in the beginning about it, 
 so I would definitely attack this game for having a steep curve for learning the other controls 
 and for making it seem so complicated. Luckily, tips do appear on the screen in racing and do notify 
 you about what to press when the time arises. In addition, the Speed Boost system is definitely 
 something one also has to master and which the game does not do a great job of explaining. It has 
 to be used right before the turn and not on the turn!
  
  Sonic Riders Zero Gravity is a nice entry to the series for the Wii. With so much going for it, 
 it is tragic that it has been flawed with so many complexities in its control scheme. However, 
 if one takes the time to replay the levels and try out the normal modes then they will undoubtedly 
 be able to beat the game.
  
  Pros:
  -Tons of unlockables once the main mode is beat, such as playing as Team Babylon, other characters 
 that did not appear in the story, boards and gear
  -Great Story
  -Decent Nintendo Wifi options with Ghost Data and Worldwide Rankings
  -Sonic and Crew in a new 
 story
  -Commendable graphics for a Wii game
  -Ignoring the mastering of the other gears and speed, a pretty solid game
  
  Cons:
  -Controls 
 may turn some people off
  -Sonic seems to be plagued with good vocalists who are forced to say the most predictable and at 
 times cheesy and sappy lines
  -3 hours to beat the main mode
  -Quite difficult to master the "Gear Change" and "Speed Boost"
  -Would have been nice to have 
 an actual Online Racing mode
  
  Something worthy playing if one enjoys the thrill of attempting to master the difficult control 
 scheme. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_rock_74
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 14, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  For whatever reason, I've just never been much of a Sonic fan. I tried recommended Sonic games 
 (for example, Sonic Rush) and just found it boring. Same with some of the 3D titles, such as Sonic 
 Adventure 2 Battle for the GameCube (although I've yet to check out Sonic and the Secret Rings 
 -- I've got to admit, it looks pretty good) . With that in mind, then, it may be best to take this 
 review with a grain of salt; perhaps it's just my personal gaming preferences, but I really did 
 not care much at all for Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity.
  
  To begin with, it didn't feel much like a racing game. It just felt like a regular old Sonic gameexcept 
 with other characters along for the ride. The entire premise of the game is just to go fastreally, 
 really fast. But there just doesn't seem to really be anything present in Zero Gravity to separate 
 it from any other 2D Sonic Game -- it just doesn't feel like a racing game.
  
  Classic racing games like Mario Kart have a leg-up over other titles thanks to the items in the 
 game. Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity attempts to do something like that, but instead implementing abilities 
 instead of items. Throughout every level are scattered rings, a staple of all Sonic games. Collecting 
 these rings is a necessity, because each ability that you can pick up has a cost in rings. These 
 abilities are picked up from little box-like item a la Mario Kart found throughout the course. 
 These rings can then be used to grind, get speed bursts, and a plethora of other little abilities 
 that can help give you an edge in a race.
  
  The controls, however, are when the game runs into an even bigger rut. There are three different 
 control schemes: Horizontal Wii Remote, Vertical Wii Remote, and GameCube controller. The latter 
 probably works the best but is unexciting, and really makes this game just feel like a bit of a 
 remake of the original Sonic Riders. Vertical works fine, I suppose, and has you holding the Remote 
 upright and tilting to the left and right to turn. Horizontal is probably the worst (and for some 
 reason, the default) control scheme. So what's the problem? Well, with both Wii control schemes, 
 the responsiveness is terrible (although the Vertical scheme is a little better) . There are a few 
 special moves to pull off -- for example, to make it around a sharp turn, you've got to hit 1 and 
 tilt the remote the direction you want to blast off. You'll stand still for a few seconds, and 
 then get a huge burst of speed to make up for lost time. However, this maneuver is terribly done 
 and many times doesn't work at all -- often resulting with you blasting into a wall and losing 
 your position in the race.
  
  Of course, stuff like this wouldn't be quite such a big deal but for the fact that Zero Gravity 
 is a very tough game. The AI is pretty brutal -- everybody else will pull ahead of the pack automatically 
 and race flawlessly, making it very difficult to get in first place. Plus, once you do, it's going 
 to be even tougher to maintain your lead for 3 laps. The high difficulty level requires you to 
 play a lot just to get good at this game, and the terrible controls will probably ensure that you 
 won't want to spend much time with this title.
  
  Like Mario Kart, there are several different characters to choose from; some are classic Sonic 
 characters, and others are new inclusions from the original Sonic Riders. Only about a third of 
 them are available from the get-go, so you've got a lot of unlocking to do if you want them all. 
 Still, though, there's no big difference between each of the characters. While they all have a 
 different number of points in various racing abilities (for example, speed or turning ability) , 
 they don't play all that differently, which is a shame. The fact that there's no real discernable 
 difference between the many riders pretty much detracts any fun or value that could have come out 
 of such an implementation as having different characters. What's the point, honestly?
  
  Aside from the broken/unimaginative controls, one of the game's biggest problems is that it just 
 doesn't feel as fast as it should. This is supposed to be a high-speed racing game, right? Then 
 why doesn't it feel like, say, F-Zero GX on the GameCube? There are a few little environmental 
 maneuvers, like flips and corkscrews, but the game automatically takes care of these for you -- 
 the camera takes a step back and you don't even have control of your racer for about a second. 
 Sure, there are plenty of veers to decide upon and a plethora or sharp turns and dives, but the 
 sense of speed feels conspicuously absent.
  
  Another significant problem that I have with Zero gravity is that there are very few courses -- 
 when you've got a genre whose game value relies on having reason to race over and over again, you're 
 going to want way more than a dozen courses on which to race. Sadly, such a fact didn't really 
 get through to the developers, so the course offering is pretty pathetic. Admittedly, most of them 
 are pretty well designed (although some of the "stories" behind each course make absolutely no 
 sense) , but that fact is all too easily overlooked thanks to the dearth of courses.
  
  Two of Zero Gravity's highest points are, disappointingly, the graphics and sound. The game looks 
 quite nice on the Wii, and maintains a steady framerate even with lots of action going on on-screen, 
 and even with up to four players duking it out on the same screen. The music, additionally, is 
 very well-done, and the visual feel of the game meshes seamlessly with the music to create some 
 really great atmosphere. The courses all look -- and sound -- great, and it's just too bad that 
 the attention to detail with the graphics and audio couldn't have been applied to the rest of the 
 game.
  
  The addition of a multiplayer mode was a good move, but multiplayer is only as good as the game's 
 core game play mechanic. Seeing as Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity is fundamentally flawed, the multiplayer 
 just isn't that great. It's really too bad, because if this game hadn't missed the mark, it's obvious 
 that the potential for a great, intense four-player multiplayer mode would have been great. In 
 addition, there's an online component, but it's disappointing -- you can't actually race others 
 online. Instead, though, there's a leader board and the ability to download other players' ghost 
 data for different courses throughout the game -- admittedly, quite underwhelming.
  
  There's a story mode to tie everything together and to cater to the single player, and its actually 
 surprisingly well-done. The story is pretty pathetic, which is something that can be forgiven when 
 you take into account that this is a racing game. There's also some half-decent voice acting that, 
 objectively, is rather poor, but it (surprisingly) fits pretty well with the rest of the game. 
 Again, you're really just going to be racing here (although with a lot of robots rather than other, 
 uhhedgehogs and small mammals) , but the story is a nice little diversion.
  
  For those of you that can get into Zero Gravity, there's actually a lot here for you in this package. 
 While the number of courses is disappointing, there's a shop in the game which allows you to purchase 
 gear for all your characters. Plus, don't forget that you've got plenty of classic Sonic characters 
 to unlock via the story mode. Unlocking items is a fairly straightforward process, and actually 
 encourages you to play the game quite a bit. You pay for unlockable items with coins that you collect 
 in the game's stages, and coins garnered anywhere -- story mode, multiplayer, and the like -- all 
 go toward your total. So, you can pretty much play however you want to play and still reap the 
 rewards, so to speak.
  
  All told, Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity is a fairly underwhelming package. The controls are flawed 
 and tough to get used to, which emphasizes even more the game's unforgiving difficulty level. That 
 said, it's not a terrible game -- if you're willing to give the game time, you'll get used to the 
 control scheme and probably start to have fun with the game. But if you're looking for a fun, easy 
 game that you can pick up and play, you're going to be severely disappointed. But if you give it 
 a chance, you may find a surprisingly fun racing game. Still, it's inexcusable that you should 
 have to spend this much time and go through this much frustration just to have fun with a game. 
 Hardcore Sonic fans should probably pick this up -- otherwise, if you're even remotely interested, 
 I'd highly recommend that you rent this game first, spend a week with it, and decide if it's really 
 for you. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RavenStarr
Rating: 7
Date: May 13, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  While the controls are decidedly lacking on the Wii in that turns are frustrating and it is indeed 
 easy to wind up screaming as you bounce off the walls, I'm really pretty surprised at the low rating 
 GS gave this one. I purchase Wii games based on community fun factor; IE, will my family and I 
 come back to it time after time? I find the graphics solid, the courses fun, and the variety of 
 characters and gear worthwhile. Great soundtrack too. This is not a world class game, no, but it 
 IS fun once you get the hang of it. 
  Yes, I agree with GS, the story mode IS lame, but so what? It's a racer, and that's what I bought 
 it for (multiplayer competition is what these games are all about for me) . I do not recommend this 
 one for the younger set though, at least not on the Wii. The controls are frustrating to use, and 
 when you first start playing, whew, it does take a LOT of effort to keep from throwing your controller 
 across the room. Mario Kart Wii makes excellent and accurate use of the Wii controller, so SEGA 
 can certainly stand to take note and do as well on their next release.
  
  Maybe this game isn't worth buying (feels more like a $30 title than a $50 one) , but it is well 
 worth renting so that you can make that call on your own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advert-Man
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity is a great game as it was improved greatly since it's predecessor in 
 pretty much every way.
  Where controls and general gameplay are concerned it has been improved and isn't that difficult 
 to get used to. First of all the Air Gauge has been scrapped which in the original proved annoying 
 as it would run out alot. Instead in this game there is a Gravity Points meter which works in a 
 similar fashion only it is just used for special tricks rather than fuel which runs out quickly 
 just by doing nothing. The Gravity Points meter isn't to difficult to get used to as it pumps when 
 you perform good jumps and then you let rip the Gravity Dive or Gravity Control. In the original 
 there was a level up system where you would collect a certain amount of rings and then your board 
 would be upgraded to ride faster and other features. This feature is repeated in this game but 
 the players board would transform in a certain way depending on it's attributes. This is improved 
 as in the last game you would lose the level up if you were to fall off the track but in this game 
 you keep your upgrade to make things less annoying. The game can also be played with the Wii remote 
 held sideways, normally or with a GameCube controller. The GameCube controller is most probably 
 the easiest to play with and that way you notice the true differences between this and the original.
 
  The level designs are another significant improvement in this game as they have been made longer 
 and more interesting in general. This time all of the Babylon courses are alot more unique in layout 
 than the Hero ones as they all have different track shapes and shortcuts. Each course has many 
 ways of getting to the finish that each race itself is made more unique and fresh.
  The character roster has been topped up with addition of Blaze and Silver, AiAi and Ulala have 
 been replaced by Amigo and Billy Hatcher and the robots from before have been replaced by 2 MeteorTech 
 robots to suit the game more and keep it new. People who like this and used to like the classic 
 games will be in for a treat as the 80's and 90's Boulevard stages are packed with cameos of old 
 memories from that respected decade and also the addition of NiGHTS, Amigo and Billy Hatcher will 
 treat those furthermore. With this the visuals are really good as the futuristic environments look 
 magnificent.
  The replay value is also very good as once you complete the story mode there are alot of missions 
 available and theres the World Grand Prix to win which helps with collecting new boards. Although 
 there is good replay value the story is just as short as ever and doesn't take a long time to complete 
 because of it's length and difficulty. The story mode mirrors the last game as you play as Team 
 Sonic in the Hero story in missions that take place on 6 different tracks and then you play through 
 the Babylon story with the same amount of stages but then after that you face Master Core: ABIS. 
 This boss battle wasn't too bad but was far to easy to defeat as the boss itself didn't do that 
 much to you except the odd meteor strike which was quite tricky but easy if you play as a power 
 character. This battle was more of a race than anything saying that but was still easy to complete.
 
  Finally the soundtrack in the game was excellent as the main vocal themes were very well performed. 
 But also the music within the races was very good as the tracks themselves all had good music which 
 suited them but also when you activate a gravity trick it changes to become slightly more epic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicphoto
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  In 2006, Sega decided to give a new edge to sonic by making a racing game using hover boards. The 
 game got mixed opinions has some find the use of hover boards quite dumb when they could just make 
 a sonic racing game on foot like Sonic R, while others had problems with the controls and the concept 
 of restoring air to your hover board. Still, the game did sell fairly well and was overall a good 
 game, so Sega decides to bring a brand new sequel that eliminates the need of using air. But do 
 the new changes make it better or worst? Read on and find out.
  
  Tails shows Sonic and Knuckles a special blue bracelet he found that has the ability to control 
 gravity, then robots start chasing them desperate to get this blue bracelet and when Sonic is about 
 to fall in one moment, the bracelet activates making sonic float and not fall to the ground. And 
 so now Sonic, Tails and Knuckles go in search for the rest of bracelets before Eggman does and 
 along the way they encounter Amy and Team Babylon who were the new characters in the first Sonic 
 Riders. The story is not something really impressive but they do their best to relax after each 
 race with several nice cut-scenes.
  
  Sonic Riders Zero Gravity brings back most of the gameplay of the previous Sonic Riders except 
 this time with control changes and a different way to make specific things like tricks. The most 
 notable change is the ability to control gravity that lets you freeze in the air when there is 
 a long turn and quickly move the character to the correct path of the turn. This ability also lets 
 you reach hidden paths to take around the course. And it's all thanks to the new bracelets that 
 give sonic and company this power and the reason why it's called zero gravity. Another change is 
 that in the last game you had to pick up air in a station or make tricks to gain air or else you 
 will have to go walking in the course which was considered quite troublesome. Now, there is no 
 need to charge air; instead you charge a boost meter that you must have in order to control gravity 
 with the bracelet as mentioned before and a special turbo that sends the character flying very 
 fast in the course until there is no more boost in the meter.
  
  Doing tricks now is easier but perhaps a little too easy. This time around when you are close to 
 a ramp to jump is all about timing by pressing the button it requests moments at the end of the 
 ramp and depending on your timing, the trick is performed nicely or just average. And that really 
 disappoints because the way it was before in the previous game was good in which yes you had to 
 press with timing but after you jump, you performed the trick by moving the control stick by just 
 the way how you want the trick to be. Yet the worst thing has to be that when you are not using 
 a boost or anything, the racing feels a bit slow, not as fast like the previous title. Even tough 
 when you master all the game's techniques it will run pretty nicely.
  
  Another new addition is that when you collect rings you upgrade your hover board or vehicle. In 
 the previous game you could use each character's special ability at any time in which the speed 
 characters could grind on rails, the power characters could punch all obstacles in their way and 
 the flying characters could go and fly by first going to the ramp that will let you start flying 
 and then you had to go through special dash rings to continue flying or else you might fall outside 
 the course. These special abilities remain in this sequel, however this time around you need to 
 obligatory collect a certain amount of rings to get the second upgrade to your vehicle that enables 
 the use of that special ability. Which again slows down the gameplay and it really disappoints 
 that they changed another thing that was good on the previous title and then basically ruin it 
 in the sequel when it should be opposite, fix what is really broken.
  
  On the Wii there are three control options to use. You can use the Wii remote sideways, vertical 
 form or simply the Gamecube controller. When holding the control sideways (default controls) , you 
 tilt the control to the left or right and twist a bit the control to the front to start running 
 and maintain fast speed. This controls are not quite the best at first to manage, but after quite 
 a few tries you will master it little by little until it becomes no problem. Unfortunately, some 
 people don't wait to master them and think it's possible to control it well, but I suggest you 
 have patience until you finally get use to it.
  
  Visually, sonic riders zero gravity maintains the same style of graphics and add perhaps a little 
 bit of detail here and there but it still looks perhaps too similar to the Gamecube title. The 
 framerates run pretty nice without any slow-downs when you go high speed. The design of the menus 
 is more interesting and attractive then before, the characters are well done and they are different 
 types of vehicles that basically their big difference is how they look and some of them having 
 a specific ability such as speed, power or flying.
  
  With this sequel they decided to make a vocal theme song like previous 3-D sonic installments. 
 This one is by "Cashell" and the song is called "Ungravitify" which is a nice dance-electronic 
 tune. The rest of the game's soundtrack is all electronic that fits in well with the futuristic 
 story of sonic riders zero gravity. The voiceovers between the cut-scenes have improved from the 
 last game and do justice to each character. The sound effects of the original game have return 
 and this time when you are in zero gravity the music stops then when you finish taking the turn, 
 the music returns and it does the transition smoothly.
  
  Sonic Riders Zero Gravity brings back the great multiplayer of up to 4 players. However, it turns 
 to be a bit more difficult because the screen gets smaller and this racing game has many details 
 that you need to watch clearly but is still a great racing game to play with some friends and hang 
 out. And there is also online play or sort of. Why is not an exciting feature? Because the online 
 consists of beating other people's ghosts, in other words you have to beat the course the fastest 
 you can and beat the ghost which is the record of someone else's fastest time in a course. So, 
 it's not that you are racing live online is just basically beating someone's else record like Mario 
 & Sonic at the Olympic games except that you can see a ghost of how that person finished the course 
 in that time.
  
  In the end, this sequel fails to take the Sonic Riders to the next level by fixing what was bad 
 in the first game but ruining what was good in it. Is not worst neither better then the original 
 is just about the same amount of fun. Despite it's errors, Sonic Riders Zero Gravity is still a 
 nice fun racing game for the Wii that fans of the first one should check it out and those that 
 didn't like the first one could still rent this game and see if maybe they like it more now with 
 the new changes but is not recommended and instant buy because the new changes are definitely not 
 for everyone.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soenderup32
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 2, 2008 3:23 am PT
Review:  This game is very bad! The graphics are the worst I have ever seen on any Nintendo Wii game because 
 there is a thousand colors on the screen in the same time, so you very often lose your bearings.
 
  This is not a fun game at all because there is no meaning with the game - the storyline are terrible 
 bad. The game is also very short, which actually is a good thing, because you constantly, wish 
 the game to be over, while playing.
  It's nice that it has a training part, because when you first start it up, you haven't a single 
 clue of what to do, but when this good part ends, the game gets terrible again! 
  The controls works okay, but when you make these so called gravity shots, you very easy lose your 
 bearings!
  
  If you want a driving game, choose Need For Speed, Exite Truck or Mx Vs. ATV instead, just don't 
 waste your money on this game - you will get very disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malachi_27
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 16, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  The first Sonic Riders was terrible, it was just boring. Sonic Riders was about speed, but it was 
 completely mediocre -- at the same time, it wasn't half bad because sometimes you just want to 
 race at high speeds. Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity is a sequel to the original. Though if you were 
 to compare the two, you wouldn't be able to tell if this was a sequel, or if it is the same exact 
 game with a different and non-thrilling plot.
  
  The plot opens up as shooting stars crash on the planet. The next day, Team Sonic heard about the 
 news. Soon after, they were attacked by robots, but they just barely escaped. They later find out 
 that the robots are after the meteorites that fell from the sky, now it is up to Sonic and friends 
 to gather meteorites! Of course, the storyline evolves, but the plot develops into an even more 
 lame and mediocre plot. Like the first game, after you beat the Hero Mode, a new mode becomes available. 
 The "bad-guy" mode is called Babylon Mode where you play as the Babylon Rogues . . . hooray. It 
 won't take you long to beat both of the modes. There isn't much to do after you beat them, other 
 than the excepted unlockable characters.
  
  We haven't even reached the bad part of the game. The controls are some of the worst controls for 
 any racing game to hit the PlayStation Two and Wii today. They are sloppy and difficult to control. 
 The game's AI can be very cheap, other times it can be very dumb. The game isn't balanced out too 
 well, and it lacks the excitement its predecessor lacks. Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity isn't worth 
 your time or money. The only people who could possibly like this game, are the ones that have a 
 terrible taste in video games, or the ones that feel bad for Sonic, and force themselves to like 
 it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilwakka
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Okay, let me point something out. Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity does NOT deserve the bad reputation 
 it's getting from other reviewers. Sure, it's not perfect, but you could definitely do a hell of 
 a lot worse when it comes to gaming on the Wii. And just so you know, I'm not going to go on a 
 digression and say; "Oh gawd, Sonic's not what he used to be, let's all alert the press!" 
  Anyway, on with the review.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10.
  This is a racing game, so you'd expect some 
 fast paced competitive gameplay on offer, and for the most part, that's what you get. Anyone who's 
 played the original Sonic Riders will know exactly what to do here, although there are a few tweaks. 
 Instead of the "Air" system, which you required a steady stream of to stay on your board, you get 
 the "Gravity" system, which affects the certain gravity style moves you want to do, these are:
 
  You have a gravity drift manoeuvre, which slows you and time down at the expense of gravity, moves 
 obstacles out of the way, and allows you to make sharp turns; you'll only need this either once 
 or twice per lap, so it's not too taxing once you get the hang of it. Some have criticised the 
 control scheme for parts such as this, but we'll get onto that later.
  Once per track, you will have the opportunity to manipulate gravity further, and go on a straight 
 line dash down a long straight, hitting the obstacles that float beside of you allows you to push 
 off them and increase your speed and going through gravity rings achieves this too. Again, this 
 isn't too taxing and you should get the hang of it when you've memorized most of the tracks.
  When it comes to the roster of characters, owners of the previous Sonic Riders game will know what's 
 on offer. You can play as Sonic and all his pals and rivals, including Robotnik (Yes, Robotnik, 
 not Eggman.) a couple of new arrivals from the newer Sonic games in the shape of Silver and Blaze, 
 and some characters from other Sega franchises, such as Billy Hatcher and NIGHTs. Each of these 
 characters has a specific type, Speed types are the faster characters and can grind once they reach 
 the right gear, Flying types can fly over certain specified gaps when they reach the right gear, 
 and Power types can smash through obstacles and even some breakable walls when they reach the right 
 gear. What are these gears, you ask? By collecting rings, you can cash them in mid-race to earn 
 some power-ups to your character, and yes, to be competitive, you NEED them, you'll thank me later.
 
  The issue with the gameplay is that it's a little too slow when you consider this is a Sonic RACING 
 game, two of the fastest styles of play you should ever come across, some of the shortcuts are 
 a little hard to come by, and they may have added a little too many features to think and look 
 out for... but hey, the gameplay is sufficient and quite addictive, so stay with it. This isn't 
 Sonic R, remember. 
  
  Graphics: 9/10.
  The visuals in FMVs, when you consider the art style are breath taking, with terrific lighting 
 and shades, the characters don't look too shiny like they would in last generation Sonic games 
 such as Sonic Heroes, but they are not as nice as they are in Sonic '06, but when you consider 
 that this is the Wii, they're excellent. 
  In game, the visuals are still fantastic. The level designs are great, if a little too detailed 
 (some shortcuts are fairly hard to see) from the shiny metropolis of Megalo Station, to the watery 
 paradise of Aquatic Capital, you will be captivated as you race. 
  Even the character designs during smaller cut scenes are great, a lack of odd textures, the only 
 problems visually is that during said cutscenes, some of the voice syncing is off slightly, and 
 during the actual game, they decide to include a strange blur to compensate for the lack of speed 
  I mean, really, did they have to?
  
  Audio: 8/10.
  Music in Sonic games have always been marvellous, and this game is no exception  the style is 
 more technical than the metal riffs in the Sonic platformers, but again, if you've played the last 
 Sonic Riders, you'll know that this style is more appropriate, especially when you consider your 
 equipment and the world you're inhabiting is very high-tech.
  The voices are less successful, they're no different from most other recent games of this franchise, 
 meaning that a good few can wear on your nerves, but seeing as most of the dialogue is during the 
 cut-scenes, which can be skipped easily if you can't stand those awful 4Kids actors! (Sarcasm) , 
 the other voices, for example the taunts and ending lines of races are ripped straight from Sonic 
 Riders, so no real change here (with the obvious exception of Silver and Blaze, but they don't 
 take a role in the story anyway) , oh, and you'll be glad to know that the infamous and annoying 
 Omo-Chao commentator from Sonic Riders is gone. Hurrah!
  
  Story: 4/10.
  Alas, we come to a weak spot. Did expect a good story from a racing game...? Because if you were, 
 I may have to shoot you. Anyway, some robots from a company called Meteotech have started rampaging, 
 and the only way to stop them is to race, apparently. Y'know, I would've preferred no story at 
 all, and I'm sure many fans would agree.
  Or rather, a story that involved; "Some bad guy has the Chaos emeralds! You have to win the championships 
 to get them back!" It wouldn't have been imaginative, but it would be a lot better than the garbage 
 they fed us. Gawd, again, it's a racing game, you should get over it.
  
  Use of the Wii-Remote: 6/10.
  There are a few ways that the Wii-remote controls could have been 
 improved  there are three control schemes, two that involves the Wii-Remote, and one that involves 
 the Gamecube controller. You can hold the remote horizontally, pointing it at the screen and waving 
 it from side to side to move, but it's by far the worst way. The Gamecube controller makes the 
 play similar to the original, but easier to handle, but come on, why would you want to use that? 
 This is a Wii!
  But, never fear, there is a solution! The standard control scheme is to hold the remote horizontally, 
 like you would an NES controller, or like in the Secret Rings. The craft you're riding is self 
 propelled, and by tilting the remote from side to side, you move in the same direction. Unfortunately, 
 this doesn't seem to be sensitive enough. But, one thing most reviewers tend to forget is that 
 you can use the d-pad on the Wii-remote to steer also  this makes things a LOT easier, don't believe 
 what these fanboys say, the controls are smooth if you use this method.
  
  Summary: Me/10.
  So, in summary, my score is not an average of the above scores, it's what I 
 believe this deserves when you consider the game as a sum of its parts. And, like I said, this 
 isn't NEARLY as bad as everyone says. So, here's my recommendation; want something to tie you over 
 until Mario Kart Wii? You should have fun with this, and you should keep coming back if you're 
 not a fanboy. 
  
  Thanks for reading this, and remember, DON'T BELIEVE THE HYPE!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrissieGirl
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  The original Sonic Riders came out in 2006 and was met with mostly average scores, but still a 
 sequel came out, this time on the Wii and PS2. Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity intended to take a unique 
 spin on the racing series, introducing the ability to manipulate gravity. This game was also met 
 with average scores, with some people saying it was better than the original and others saying 
 the original is better. Personally, I find the original to be the superior Riders game.
  
  Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity changes a lot about the original Riders, with some new stuff in there 
 and some stuff removed. Though ultimately, it looks the same on the surface when looking at the 
 menu. The game still has a story mode, it still has a Free Race mode and you can still do missions 
 like in the original, as well as other things.
  
  The story is rubbish, no two ways about it. It was so handled so poorly that I struggled to understand 
 what was happening on many occasions. The story consists of meteors landing on the planet, called 
 the Arks of the Cosmos, that the Babylon Rogues are looking for. These meteors appear to have a 
 negative effect on Eggman's robots, making them go haywire. It seems like Eggman isn't involved 
 when he actually is. It's handled so sloppily that it almost feels like a rushed job. I have to 
 wonder why a story was added into a racing game anyway. 
  
  Once you get into the gameplay, you will quickly learn just how different it is from the first 
 Riders game. For one, there is no air system. This is actually a good change, as the air system 
 in the first Riders was incredibly irritating and prevented the game from being as enjoyable as 
 what it could have been. In this game, you do not really come off of your board unless you pick 
 up a power-up which enables you to attack your rivals, and when you do you actually go faster. 
 I suppose that also brings me to the point that, unlike in the first Riders, you cannot attack 
 your opponents on your board. You can overtake them and talk smack to them as you ride past them, 
 but no attacking unless you collect that certain temporary power-up.
  
  The gears move a lot slower in this game, which is somewhat annoying. While Riders was out of character 
 in that when the characters came off of their gears they'd run slowly, in this game, the gears 
 move slow and this is actually worse as you will spend the majority of the game on them. There 
 are five types of gear, but only three mainly used which attribute to the types of speed, flight 
 and power. The difference is though, that it is the gears that define the specialised shortcuts 
 you can take and not the character. For example, if you use Tails and the Advantage-S, you will 
 only be able to take speed shortcuts, as the Advantage-S is known for being a speed type gear.
 
  
  Throughout the races, it is important to utilize shortcuts, as you will need them to win races. 
 Hence, you will need to use gravity skills and specialized type shortcuts such as Air Rides and 
 rails. However, to Air Ride, grind or bash through walls, you need to upgrade your gear throughout 
 the race. To do this, you need to collect certain numbers Rings which will make your gear better 
 throughout the race. It is somewhat irritating that you cannot grind, fly or bash through walls 
 from the start with some gears, but it is easy to get used to.
  
  Gravity moves are a new feature in this game - gravity control and gravity dive. Gravity control 
 is used mainly to get around sharp corners and onto accessible walls, which serves to freeze the 
 character in mid air and turn them to a certain direction. Gravity dive allows the character to 
 rise in mid-air and streak forward without the use of their board. They can also use meteor burst 
 in this instant, riding off of objects that come floating towards you to raise the gravity bar 
 and speed up. The gravity bar is on the bottom of the screen and so long as it is somewhat filled, 
 gravity abilities can be used. Once it is empty, gravity skills can no longer be used.
  
  There are three types of controls for this game, but it is unfortunate that only one of those three 
 types work decently. Two types of control use the Wii Remote. The first control scheme consists 
 of pointing the Wii Remote at the screen. It is incredibly uncomfortable to use, pointing the remote 
 at the screen to turn the players and shaking the remote to use gravity dive. The second scheme 
 is like that of Sonic and the Secret Rings, holding the remote on it's side, and while it could 
 have worked very well, the turning is incredibly sensitive which is a let down. The third control 
 scheme is the Gamecube controller, which works relatively well, but is disappointing as the game 
 is for the Wii, not the Gamecube.
  
  The graphics are nothing special at all. They look like the graphics in the original Riders, but 
 the character models are quite poor in a few instances within the cutscenes. They are fairly disappointing 
 because the Wii is capable of producing better graphics, though at the same time, they are not 
 completely terrible due to their resemblance to the first Riders game. 
  
  The music, I admit, is an improvement over the first Riders. It sounds fairly decent, fitting the 
 levels well. The sound effects work decently enough as well. Though admittedly, this game features 
 the worst performance from the 4kids voice actors yet. Very few of the characters managed to display 
 emotion within their voices, which doesn't make them very believable within the cutscenes of the 
 story. Easily the worst voice is Rouge's, who thankfully isn't in the story mode, but still is 
 awful to listen to. Thankfully though, there is a Japanese voice option included, so for those 
 who do not want to listen to the terrible voice-acting, there is thankfully an option there that 
 doesn't including muting the television.
  
  Overall, Zero Gravity is, in my opinion, a mixed bag. For me, it is not as good as the original. 
 The original was better due to it's challenge and the fact that it was much faster-paced than this 
 one. The fact that this game is slower than the original is a let down as it doesn't have the same 
 exhilaration given when racing in the original. The fact that this game is so easy is disappointing 
 - it barely challenges you at all. Worst of all, it's short; the story mode can be finished within 
 approximately two or three hours, and the same amount of time, if not less, can be used to get 
 through all of the missions. Because you will be finished with this game in barely no time at all 
 due to it's easy difficulty, there's not much here that will keep you busy for a long while. This 
 game could probably be beaten within a dedicated day. Hence if you really insist on trying this 
 game, I'd rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anton_111111
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Sonic riders zero gravity takes sonic riders to a whole new level it has better graphics, better 
 music and one of my favourite new parts are the new gravity moves which are gravity dive and gravity 
 control.
  
  The boards are alot better as they can change into six different things: grind, air ride, bike, 
 skate, yacht and wheel my favourite ones are the air ride and yacht as those let u fly
  
  Also another good thing is the tracks have more differences between them unlike the original the 
 games tracks encourges the gravity use but it still delivers a sense of speed that sonic is know 
 for
  
  Graphics 8: improvement over the first but not the best
  Sound 9: voice acting seems ok in race but not so in cutscenes the music in the background is some 
 of the best
  
  overall: 9 this game could of used some more time in development 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haga11111
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  I've been a Sonic fan for years, and even though he has been going downhill lately, I'll stick 
 with his series to the ugly end. Even then, I will still be popping his games into my console. 
 A few of those games: Sonic The Hedgehog 1-3, Sonic Rush and Sonic Rush Adventure, Sonic Adventure 
 1 and 2, and this game. They are some of Sonic's best games.
  
  Story:
  Basically, the story this time around is that after a strange meteorite crashes on Earth, a security 
 robot finds it and goes berserk, like a decapitated chicken. A dangerous, deadly, decapitated chicken. 
 Don't ask. Then, its whole group follows in suit. They break out and go on a rampage. The next 
 day, Sonic, Tails and Knuckles are driving to Megalo Station while the radio talks about the rampage, 
 and while Sonic flips the meteorite in his hand a few times. Soon after, they are attacked by those 
 same robots and barely escape. They then ram through the wall in escape, and fly out of the building. 
 Tails hovers, and watches in awe as a blue aura surround Sonic and he floats, as Knuckles does 
 (he was in the same area) . Sonic and Co. race off to get to the bottom of this!
  
  Gameplay:
  The overall gameplay is very good. You race laps (usually 3) around a course against 
 7 competitors, using gravity control and gravity dives, plus other shortcuts for that gear, to 
 win. You start out with 7 characters playable, and 5 courses, but you can unlock more of each by 
 playing the story mode and other modes. You use gravity moves with the GP meter that depletes when 
 you use them. To fill it, you must perform tricks by tilting the control stick and pressing the 
 trick button at the right time.
  
  Graphics/Sound/Glitches:
  The graphics are relatively good, and at certain points you'll say things like "WOW! How'd they 
 manage that??!!" The music score is incredible, and the remix of "Catch Me if You Can" is amazing. 
 There are a FEW songs that aren't as good, but they are barely noticeable. There aren't many major 
 glitches, although a misplaced gravity control could send you through a wall, to your doom. However, 
 they are rare most times.
  
  Lasting value:
  You'll still be playing this game in years. Always trying to find another shortcut, complete missions, 
 race friends in multiplayer modes, getting better times... the list goes on and on. Time attack 
 let's you challenge your time, the clock, and other players' times. In free race, you (and possibly 
 some friends) compete against the computer (and each other) . Survival mode has some other game 
 types, and missions let you complete set goals (not always time goals) .
  
  Now, DO NOT make this your first Sonic game, as it is a spin-off, and spin-offs never capture the 
 true series. However, it is a great party game, single player game, or family/friends game. Now, 
 get out there and race! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  For whatever reason, I've just never been much of a Sonic fan. I tried recommended Sonic games 
 (for example, Sonic Rush) and just found it boring. Same with some of the 3D titles, such as Sonic 
 Adventure 2 Battle for the GameCube (although I've yet to check out Sonic and the Secret Rings 
 -- I've got to admit, it looks pretty good) . With that in mind, then, it may be best to take this 
 review with a grain of salt; perhaps it's just my personal gaming preferences, but I really did 
 not care much at all for Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity.
  
  To begin with, it didn't feel much like a racing game. It just felt like a regular old Sonic gameexcept 
 with other characters along for the ride. The entire premise of the game is just to go fastreally, 
 really fast. But there just doesn't seem to really be anything present in Zero Gravity to separate 
 it from any other 2D Sonic Game -- it just doesn't feel like a racing game.
  
  Classic racing games like Mario Kart have a leg-up over other titles thanks to the items in the 
 game. Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity attempts to do something like that, but instead implementing abilities 
 instead of items. Throughout every level are scattered rings, a staple of all Sonic games. Collecting 
 these rings is a necessity, because each ability that you can pick up has a cost in rings. These 
 abilities are picked up from little box-like item a la Mario Kart found throughout the course. 
 These rings can then be used to grind, get speed bursts, and a plethora of other little abilities 
 that can help give you an edge in a race.
  
  The controls, however, are when the game runs into an even bigger rut. There are three different 
 control schemes: Horizontal Wii Remote, Vertical Wii Remote, and GameCube controller. The latter 
 probably works the best but is unexciting, and really makes this game just feel like a bit of a 
 remake of the original Sonic Riders. Vertical works fine, I suppose, and has you holding the Remote 
 upright and tilting to the left and right to turn. Horizontal is probably the worst (and for some 
 reason, the default) control scheme. So what's the problem? Well, with both Wii control schemes, 
 the responsiveness is terrible (although the Vertical scheme is a little better) . There are a few 
 special moves to pull off -- for example, to make it around a sharp turn, you've got to hit 1 and 
 tilt the remote the direction you want to blast off. You'll stand still for a few seconds, and 
 then get a huge burst of speed to make up for lost time. However, this maneuver is terribly done 
 and many times doesn't work at all -- often resulting with you blasting into a wall and losing 
 your position in the race.
  
  Of course, stuff like this wouldn't be quite such a big deal but for the fact that Zero Gravity 
 is a very tough game. The AI is pretty brutal -- everybody else will pull ahead of the pack automatically 
 and race flawlessly, making it very difficult to get in first place. Plus, once you do, it's going 
 to be even tougher to maintain your lead for 3 laps. The high difficulty level requires you to 
 play a lot just to get good at this game, and the terrible controls will probably ensure that you 
 won't want to spend much time with this title.
  
  Like Mario Kart, there are several different characters to choose from; some are classic Sonic 
 characters, and others are new inclusions from the original Sonic Riders. Only about a third of 
 them are available from the get-go, so you've got a lot of unlocking to do if you want them all. 
 Still, though, there's no big difference between each of the characters. While they all have a 
 different number of points in various racing abilities (for example, speed or turning ability) , 
 they don't play all that differently, which is a shame. The fact that there's no real discernable 
 difference between the many riders pretty much detracts any fun or value that could have come out 
 of such an implementation as having different characters. What's the point, honestly?
  
  Aside from the broken/unimaginative controls, one of the game's biggest problems is that it just 
 doesn't feel as fast as it should. This is supposed to be a high-speed racing game, right? Then 
 why doesn't it feel like, say, F-Zero GX on the GameCube? There are a few little environmental 
 maneuvers, like flips and corkscrews, but the game automatically takes care of these for you -- 
 the camera takes a step back and you don't even have control of your racer for about a second. 
 Sure, there are plenty of veers to decide upon and a plethora or sharp turns and dives, but the 
 sense of speed feels conspicuously absent.
  
  Another significant problem that I have with Zero gravity is that there are very few courses -- 
 when you've got a genre whose game value relies on having reason to race over and over again, you're 
 going to want way more than a dozen courses on which to race. Sadly, such a fact didn't really 
 get through to the developers, so the course offering is pretty pathetic. Admittedly, most of them 
 are pretty well designed (although some of the "stories" behind each course make absolutely no 
 sense) , but that fact is all too easily overlooked thanks to the dearth of courses.
  
  Two of Zero Gravity's highest points are, disappointingly, the graphics and sound. The game looks 
 quite nice on the Wii, and maintains a steady framerate even with lots of action going on on-screen, 
 and even with up to four players duking it out on the same screen. The music, additionally, is 
 very well-done, and the visual feel of the game meshes seamlessly with the music to create some 
 really great atmosphere. The courses all look -- and sound -- great, and it's just too bad that 
 the attention to detail with the graphics and audio couldn't have been applied to the rest of the 
 game.
  
  The addition of a multiplayer mode was a good move, but multiplayer is only as good as the game's 
 core game play mechanic. Seeing as Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity is fundamentally flawed, the multiplayer 
 just isn't that great. It's really too bad, because if this game hadn't missed the mark, it's obvious 
 that the potential for a great, intense four-player multiplayer mode would have been great. In 
 addition, there's an online component, but it's disappointing -- you can't actually race others 
 online. Instead, though, there's a leader board and the ability to download other players' ghost 
 data for different courses throughout the game -- admittedly, quite underwhelming.
  
  There's a story mode to tie everything together and to cater to the single player, and its actually 
 surprisingly well-done. The story is pretty pathetic, which is something that can be forgiven when 
 you take into account that this is a racing game. There's also some half-decent voice acting that, 
 objectively, is rather poor, but it (surprisingly) fits pretty well with the rest of the game. 
 Again, you're really just going to be racing here (although with a lot of robots rather than other, 
 uhhedgehogs and small mammals) , but the story is a nice little diversion.
  
  For those of you that can get into Zero Gravity, there's actually a lot here for you in this package. 
 While the number of courses is disappointing, there's a shop in the game which allows you to purchase 
 gear for all your characters. Plus, don't forget that you've got plenty of classic Sonic characters 
 to unlock via the story mode. Unlocking items is a fairly straightforward process, and actually 
 encourages you to play the game quite a bit. You pay for unlockable items with coins that you collect 
 in the game's stages, and coins garnered anywhere -- story mode, multiplayer, and the like -- all 
 go toward your total. So, you can pretty much play however you want to play and still reap the 
 rewards, so to speak.
  
  All told, Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity is a fairly underwhelming package. The controls are flawed 
 and tough to get used to, which emphasizes even more the game's unforgiving difficulty level. That 
 said, it's not a terrible game -- if you're willing to give the game time, you'll get used to the 
 control scheme and probably start to have fun with the game. But if you're looking for a fun, easy 
 game that you can pick up and play, you're going to be severely disappointed. But if you give it 
 a chance, you may find a surprisingly fun racing game. Still, it's inexcusable that you should 
 have to spend this much time and go through this much frustration just to have fun with a game. 
 Hardcore Sonic fans should probably pick this up -- otherwise, if you're even remotely interested, 
 I'd highly recommend that you rent this game first, spend a week with it, and decide if it's really 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariosonic91
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  The majority of critics continue to look down on Sonic giving the impression that sonic has made 
 no recovery, but this game is actually quit the opposite. Sonic riders is not only an improvement 
 compared the 1st but also shows that sonic is getting back on his feet to deliver new ideas and 
 at the same time offer that speed fun.
  
  Story 7.5 : For those who havent played the 1st one should know that Sonic's story is not the only 
 story as you also play as the mysterious thieves calledThe Babylon Roguesand i shall explain 
 and review both sides.
  
  Sonic's : An unusaul meteorite has fallen into the city. As it lands, it sends a signal causing 
 a company's robots to go beserk and rampage out into the city. Next morning sonic and his freinds 
 find the meteorite only to be chased by robots who want it. As they escape, Sonic soon discovers 
 the power of the meteorite and your racing begins. 
  
  Babylon: You start off deep in a cave as they are trying to obtian a treasure without setting off 
 the traps which is actually another one of these strage meteorites. At the same time, Jet ( who 
 is their leader) is still trying to find a way to beat his rival Sonic and become the faster creature 
 on earth. As a trap gets set off, the meteorite saves them and Jet realizes that he might have 
 just found the power he needs to beat Sonic. 
  
  Both stories work nicely as they cross over with one another through rivalry and teamwork as each 
 side is determind to answer the certian questions: What are these meteorites?, Who is behind the 
 rampage of the robots?, and how do these relate to the babylon garden? The only real problem is 
 that the script is a little less epic and even ruins moments with cheesy lines including Sonic 
 at one point believing Eggman is innocent. This shouldnt stop you from reaching the end however 
 as it gets epic and exciting enough to deliver and enjoyable story, especially for a racing game.
 
  
  Gameplay 8.5/10: Sonic and his freinds do racing games not on their feet but on boards. As you 
 go around the track doing tricks, you gain gravity points which allow you to control gravity accessing 
 new areas and increasing speed. Along with the gravity comes 3 abilities for different characters. 
 Theres speed ( like Sonic) , flying ( like Tails) and power ( like Knuckles) . Speed allows you to 
 grind on rails, Flying allows you to fly off ramps giving you a speed boost, and power allows you 
 to punch objects that would slow other racers down. All 3 abilities will provide you with new shortcuts 
 and reach the goal at quicker speeds. With so much variety in track design, gravitational and character 
 powers, it will take many races to truly find all the secrets. The game offers several modes to 
 play these races in from story, to missions, to a classic grand prix and as you compete you earn 
 rings. Earning rings allows you to buy new boards but there are more than just boards: there are 
 skates, bikes, air rides, wheels, even yachts. Only problem here is that many of these vehicles 
 are very expensive so it takes alot of racing to buy them all so luckily its fun. As you do all 
 of this you have a choice of 3 different controls each well explained in the tutorial. 2 out of 
 3 work perfectly ( the gamecube controller and the remote on its side) but the 3rd one ( holding 
 the remote vertically) requires a little more skill but it does bring a new challenge to the way 
 you play racing games. A racing game done right is what you would call this bringing large variety 
 in about every catagory there is so pick your racer and get ready to control gravity!
  
  Graphics 9/10: Not only is there a large variety of feel, but also in the presentation of the game. 
 Graphics are crisp, clean, and sharp with so many different looks and colors. Water ways, electrical 
 effects , the magnetic reaction of gravity all have their own unique look in courses such as bases, 
 factories, cities, forest, water areas, and even space. Sonic riders takes place in a more futuristic 
 area and this game successfully delivers that look with beauty.
  
  What has been looked down upon, has turned out to be an improvement to sonic riders, and to sonic 
 games in the more recent years. Sonic riders zero gravity takes racing games in a new unusual direction 
 as well as deliver the same speed that Sonic is known for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Knuckles-
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  After i started playing this game i began to realize that this game is much better then gamespot 
 said. The game offers good control (Gamecube Controler) , great Leveldesign, cool new Gears and 
 a complete new way you use them. Everything seems to be more worked out and even the multiplayer 
 modes are great. You can play some cind of soccer and blast your enemys away with homing misseles 
 in multplayer. The grafic looks much better then in Sonic Rider.
  The Story is shorter yes... but its an more interessting Story this time. No Chaos emeralds and 
 more secrets and twists in the story. There are also 112 Missions in Story Mode that keeps you 
 playing and if you want to unlock everything, you got to get "Extreme" Rang in every mission. As 
 always, you can collect Rings and pay them to a Chao to get new gears. 
  
  A really great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnknownHedgehog
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2008 4:26 am PT
Review:  Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity is the second installment of the Sonic Riders series. The game can be 
 played with the Wiimote or the Gamecube Controller. The controls have changed this time around 
 to make it slightly less complicated. Performing tricks is made more simple. Instead of having 
 to press and hold the Jump button, let go and then yank the Control Stick here and there to perform 
 tricks, you just need to press the Jump button at the right time to perform pre-made tricks. In 
 other words, performing tricks is all about timing this time. The Air System has been removed, 
 so you don't need to worry about running out of air when racing. A new Gravity Point system has 
 replaced it, allowing players to take alternate routes and use Gravity Dive to go excessively fast 
 and pierce through obstacles until the Gravity Point Meter runs out. When racing, you can't perform 
 unique techniques such as grinding, flying or bashing through obstacles until you collect enough 
 rings.
  The game tells the story about the five Arks of the Cosmos, which fall into the hands of Jet, Sonic, 
 Storm, Wave and Amy, who are then chased after the robots from MeteorTech.
  Character selection now includes Silver the Hedgehog, Blaze the Cat, Billy Hatcher and Samba de 
 Amingo. The Extreme Gear range has extended. Once again, all of the unlockable Extreme Gear have 
 their own unique features and perform in different ways. And of course, the game still includes 
 additional features such as Mission Mode (with new missions) and Tournament Mode.
  Although the controls still may not be easy to master, Zero Gravity has made a huge impression 
 for those who enjoyed the first Sonic Riders. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psychohedgehog
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  this game was hard at first but when i tried the tutorial i got the hang of it. personally i find 
 the grand prixes easy. even though the cpus are what i like to call rigged, i still have a blast 
 playing it. my favorite courses are megalo station, gigan rocks, crimson crater, astral babylon, 
 and 80's boulevard. i like all the characters. but my personal favorites are sonic, tails, knuckles, 
 jet, storm, wave, scr-hd, cream, shadow, silver, blaze, nights, amigo, billy hatcher, scr-gp, and 
 super sonic. well, that's pretty much all about all that i can say about this game and i hope they 
 make a sonic riders 3. i really hope the next game has more playability, less challenging computers, 
 an easier way to unlock super sonic, more characters in the story other than sonic, tails, knux, 
 amy, jet, storm, wave, eggman, and eggman's robots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dizzydennis
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  
 
  
  There are Shooting Stars that have entered Mobius' atmosphere. Nobody knows exactly what they do. 
 As the use of the stones are revealed through accident, it becomes apparent that they can control 
 gravity. Then it's a race to get all the stones!
  
  
 
  
  The graphics in Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity are decent, at most. The game looks a lot like a Gamecube 
 game, but they still look nice. The CG cutscenes look phenominal and are so awesome! The ingame 
 cutscenes are... bad! The models look abit lacking and sometimes arms will move through objects 
 and such.
  
  The gameplay graphics look great. Phenominal rain effects, great blur effects, and great lighting 
 effects. Overall the gameplay graphics couldn't look better!
  
  
 
  
  Sound effects in this game are very unique. Using gravity always causes a cool sound effect. Many 
 levels cause different effects and it really brings the experience together. There are other sounds 
 as well like the classic Sonic-rings sound, air riding sounds, and many other effects.
  
  
 
  
  The voices in this game are... improved... for the most part. Sonic actually sounds decent and really 
 gets into the role at times. Knuckles sounds cool and fits the role. Eggman fits his role perfectly. 
 Wave sounds great too. Jet and Storm both sound... not good. Now onto Tails... he doesn't ever sound 
 interested. Tails always has this monotone voice and it's annoying! Also both English and Japanese 
 voices are avaliable.
  
  
 
  
  The music in Zero Gravity is very cool! Like the sound effects, when you use gravity the music 
 will change. It won't change entirely, but it'll make a faster tempo or maybe cause it to be over 
 a wider scale. It's a very unique music setting and fits well. Great music overall.
  
  
 
  
  The gameplay in Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity is much like the first game. This time though you have 
 3 control options. Horizontal uses the Wii Remote held like a NES controll and you tilt to turn. 
 Vertical uses the Wii Remote, but pointed towards the tv and you turn to the Wii Remote like a 
 key to turn. The final control scheme is a basic Gamecube controller.
  
  The trick system has been made more simple, by making the best jumps, when you hit the jump button 
 right at the edge of a ramp. It feels better!
  
  Gravity comes into play much better. Hidden routes are all over the level and can be on walls or 
 celings. It's great to be able to zip from the floor to a wall to a celing to the floor again!
 
  
  It's much more fun than the first and allows for different routes and makes every level feel different.
 
  
  There are so many modes like race, mission, and survival. Each mode uses gravity in a unique way 
 and it gives you a lot to do.
  
  In a last note I have to say that to fully enjoy this game, you're going to need more people to 
 play it with because it can get boring alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lednight
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  
  The Skin Version:
  If you're a patience person loves Sonic, and Simple racers This game could be well worth checking 
 out on. Other wise I advise staying away or renting it. Its not a bad game, Controls just hider 
 it to make an Ok racer. Maybe Next time Sega?
  
  THE STORY:
  Stories have never been the racing genres forte. And Sonic Riders makes that a sure thing. This 
 is one game I rather just have game play alone. Although some of the CG is nice, but Ill get to 
 that later. The story is about some sort of Robots running rogue from Eggman in order to get the 
 power of what is revealed as Black holes to control gravity. All in all, the story is short and 
 mildly interesting so you don't have to listen to it for long so that's a bit of a plus if you 
 don't like Stories in games. As well you will gaining missions to do after beating a level in the 
 story for some more replay value later. 
  
  
  THE MUSAC:
  The music for SRZG is put into the same futuristic design as the levels themselves. Proving some 
 off-beat Techno music in the process. The problem with this is that the music will tend to leak 
 into the back ground and for the most part you will not remember it ,but it is not like you will 
 hate it either.
  
  
  TEH CONTROL: (A ISSUE) :
  The biggest taboo and Problem in any 3D Sonic game. This will make or break this game for you. 
 If you have enough Paitence and desire to play this game you will not mind the controls as they 
 become quite easy to manage when you learn how to use them. 
  BUT
  2/3 controls are quite buggie and in all good truth the only way to play this game is with a gamecube 
 controller. As the Wiimote (on its side) is hard to Steer with just the D-pad or Tilting. And the 
 Forward Wiimote just seems to be Harder to control for no good reason. 
  POINT being that if you have time and patience the Controls are use to get to use to but only by 
 the Gamecube control which is a sad thing in Sonic Teams part.
  
  
  THE GAMEPLAY:
  SRZG is fun to play when you get right down to it. Although the controls hinder the game a lot 
 unless you are using a Gamecube control. Other then that, this game offers a variety of ways to 
 play this simple racer. The game offers a moderate range of worlds to race in by 8 with 2 tracks 
 in each world. With 6 different types of "Extreme!" gear and a total of 18 different characters. This 
 also gives a lot of character/gear combinations, As there is plenty of extreme gears to be unlocked. 
 However there are also problems with gameplay as well. Most problems surface about gravity diving 
 which is sometimes hard to control and might actually do every little to help you boost. Also some 
 of the Extreme gear seems too over powered (ANGEL/DEVIL) compared to others (Mags) . All in all 
 its a fun simple racer that you can spent quite a wasteful time on with all the replay value it 
 as. 
  
  
  THE PRESENTATION: 
  SRZG may not be the prettiest thing on the block but it isn't ugly either. It looks like a PS2 
 port graphic wise, but still provides a nice futuristic feel to the game and over all atmosphere. 
 Although when you look at some of the cut scenes in the story you can't help but wonder if Sonic 
 Team could have given it a better look, or where just plan lazy. 
  
  
  
  Overall:
  This game is what you make of it. If you are patient and like Sonic and simple racers you will 
 like this game. But if you don't Have at least two of the three then I suggest you give it a Rent 
 or just stay away from it. Its not bad, but it isn't something to shout amongst friends either. 
 
  7.5 / 10.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: child_of_lileth
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity for the Wii is actually a pretty decent game. Its definitely not the 
 best racer out there, but as far as the racing games in the sonic series goes, this one if pretty 
 good. The graphics look pretty ok, but its on the Wii so I'm not expecting a whole lot to begin 
 with. The music is ok, but it fits very well with the levels. It often seems to change with your 
 speed. If ya suddenly go way faster, the tempo of the music speeds up with you. The sound effects 
 are the same basic sonic sounds you'd expect. The characters do say things as they pass the others 
 and if they get passed up. 
  
  So how is the actual game play? this is where its a half and half kind of situation. First of all, 
 the story mode is the shortest story mode I've played out of any game ever. You can blast through 
 both stories in one sitting. It'll only take about 6 hours at the most. I'm horrible at this game 
 and I even beat it in like 6 hours. And the actual story itself is the most ridiculous thing they've 
 ever come up with. You're probably better off just skipping them all together. It's not like you'll 
 miss much anyway.
  
  This game has introduced a few new ways to play the game. They now have a gravity system that adds 
 a lot of new ways to find short cuts in the tracks. You can now use gravity manipulation to suspend 
 yourself in the air and turn around a corner or you can use it to burst with speed and literally 
 fly through a part of the track. Sometimes you can use it to go off the track to a whole other 
 part and make that into a huge short cut to get ahead or even catch up. They replaced the air system 
 from the original with a gravity point system. Points are earned by doing tricks or by hitting 
 certin item boxes, basically the same way you earn air in the first one. 
  
  Other than story mode there is a grand prix mode, a multiplayer mode for up to 4 players, a time 
 trial mode, and a mission mode. Wi-Fi is available to show off your best times on the tracks. Downloading 
 another players best ghost race is also available in the wi-fi mode. There are a ton of unlockables 
 in this game. Unlockable characters, tracks, missions, and more gears to race with keep the game 
 interesting long after you finish the main story mode. If you are a perfectionist with your games 
 like me, you will continue playin this game for hours and hours just tryin to see what you can 
 get next. 
  
  Basically, if you like multiplayer racing games, this one is great to play with friends. If you 
 are mainly a single player kind of person this game is still fun for a while. I'm disappointed 
 there is no Wi-Fi racing available, but at least you can download the ghosts. This is definitely 
 worth a rent, and if ya don't like it at least ya don't have to hold on to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpha_omega12
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Riders Zero Gravity has to be the most under rated game I have ever seen. It has incredible 
 opportunities for good game play. The in game shop might be a little expensive but, has much better 
 items than the first Sonic Riders. The only reason I didn't rate it higher is because both stories 
 are somewhat short. The only problems I found with it are the length, the cameras when you use 
 gravity dive, and the amount of shortcuts. The good things are the amount of characters you can 
 be, the gravity control and your options on how to play. But, Overall it's a pretty good game. 
 The ways the game creators could fix the few problems would be to get rid of that flash when you 
 use gravity dive, Make some more stories and/or make the ones they have longer, and make a little 
 less shortcut in the game or hide them a bit better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrupted19
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Don't even think about taking Gamespot's review of Sonic Riders Zero Gravity. This game takes racing 
 games to new heights, and will set a bar for Mario Kart Wii. Anyways, about the game. The first 
 second you start playing, it takes a little bit to get down the controls, and the speed bursts, 
 and everything else. As soon as you get the hang of it though, it is ridiculously fun. Whether 
 it is a flying, grinding, sliding, smashing, riding on walls, turning invisible, skating, biking, 
 this game has it all. Another things is about the controls. The controls are very good and responsive 
 compared to other wii games. So there is nothing to worry about when you buy the game. The character 
 selection is very big with Sonic, Tails, Knuckles, Shadow, Dr. Eggman, Rouge, Amy, Cream, Nights, 
 Silver, Storm, and more! If you are wondering whether there is enough gameplay in it. I have 20 
 hours on it, and I haven't even beaten the game yet. The story was relitively long and challenging, 
 but there is 112 missions for you to do! You unloch characters every step of the way, and you can 
 by boards. The only flaw to this game is that you can't race people online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazerman345
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 27, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  Gamespot gave Sonic Zero G a 4.5. Heres a review of what this game should of gotten...
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Graphics: 7.5/10, The CG cutscenes are perfect, but the other ones aren't as great.
  
  Gameplay: 8.5/10, It might not be as fast and speedy as other games, but it still is fun. Gravity 
 turns are really good, and they aren't frustrating once you get the hang of it.
  
  Controls: 8/10, According to Gamespot, the controls are very stiff. Once you play the game for 
 about 30 min, you will turn corners well and know when to use the gravity.
  
  Replay Value: 10/10, There are lots of characters to unlock, 60 types of gear to buy, and many 
 secrets hidden in levels for you to discover.
  
  Multiplayer: Online-6.5/10, There isn't actual racing, just ghost racers, but it is a little fun 
 to try and beat these racers.
  
  Multiplayer: Not Online-8/10, It is very addicting to play against friends and try to win. The only 
 problem is that the screens can get very mashed up when playing 3 or 4 player.
  
  Story: 7/10, Great story, but it is kind of short.
  
  Overall: 8/10, Great game, but if you 
 are hesitant, rent it first.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tpkfreak
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 22, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  The game rocks.
  
  It has alot of improvements from last sonic riders and has better levels, more playable characters, 
 more gear, and a new challenge GRAVITY CONTROL!
  
  The story mode is horribly short and the fact that its just race/cutscene, race/cutscene gets pretty 
 annoying.
  
  The computer AI is ridiculously hard having even beginners work up a sweat. It will probably take 
 at least a week to master the game and find out all the shortcuts and hidden passage ways..... or 
 more depending if you have good noticing skills.
  
  Now lets get on to the missions.
  
  Missions are special events that you have to complete to unlock new characters.... and as fustrating 
 as that sounds it gets even worse because some of the missions involve that same damn thing.
  
  The olny thing thats different is the characters you play with and the levels.
  
  and there 
 are more than 100 missions in all...... talk about borefest
  
  but anyway its not that bad getting a 8.0 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guy_bob_man
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 20, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  At first i thought this game was cool and awesome.
  
  WRONG! THE MAGIC WORE OFF FAST! IT QUICKLY GETS BORING because there is absolutely no replay value 
 of any sort... Of course, the rabid sonic fans will buy this anyway and accuse me of hating sonic. 
 the opposite is true. i love sonic. i just hate what sega has done to him in the recent years.
 
  
  The original is far better, so imagine how bad this one is. it gets way boring too fast. its slower 
 than mario kart 50cc races. The characters stats are either unoriginal (all speed types' stats are 
 the exact same) , uneseccary (characters with the same stats shouldn't be here!) , or unbalanced (the 
 robots suck, power type is the worst, the "Angel/Devil Gear" is the best in the game. just check 
 the wi-fi leaderboards.) Sega shows it is once again brain dead by not including online racing. 
 
  
  Oh yeah, and the story is just plain stupid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadela16
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  I love this game so much. To me, it almost ties with Shadow the Hedgehog (which I thought was a 
 great game) . Here are the Pros and Cons (to me)
  
  PROS:
  Gravity Control ~ Really helped me get first a lot times because of being able to ride on walls, 
 and helped me out when I got 3rd in Crimson Crater... on my first try!
  
  Gravity Dive: Again, helped me get first A LOT of times.
  
  Great Replay (to me) : To me, all 
 racing games have great replay, because you always have to try to beat yourself (as well as others) .
 
  
  Great Gear: I love the many types of gear on this game. With all of them, I get to replay a lot 
 of levels to see which works best for me in each level.
  
  Great Characters: I love that we can get more characters on this game than on Sonic Riders (Which, 
 again, I thought was great) .
  
  Levels: All the levels gave me a TRUE challenge. And all of the shortcuts really added to the replay 
 value.
  
  CONS:
  Characters: I liked the amount of Characters, but certain ones I didn't like. Amigo was one. Every 
 time I played with him, I kept on dieing (mainly in Crimson Crater) .
  
  Levels: I really enjoyed all the levels, but in the Babylon Story, I kept losing because of the 
 time limit. I really got annoyed of that. 
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  I say that the Pros 
 really out weigh the Cons. 
  
  And I really love the game, 'cause those are the only Cons I found. I can't find anything else 
 that is bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scourgealicious
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Sonic is back and riding again, but with a new power. It goes like this.... Apparently a meteor 
 hit Earth and caused a bunch of robots to go crazy. Sonic and pals find this weird stone thingy, 
 and the robots go after them. They learn it can alter gravity, and use that to their advantage. 
 After meeting up with the long-lost Babylon Rogues, Jet explains its the Ark of the Cosmos (yeah, 
 I was confused, too) and he needs them for some reason. Then Sonic teams up with Jet in the end 
 to fight Master Core: ABIS (pretty much a remade Babylon Guardian) . In the end, all YOU end up 
 learning is the Babylonians from ancient times were aliens, Jet decides to stay on Earth (leaves 
 many questions unanswered) , and is open for another obvious cliffhanger. It's a pretty dumb story, 
 but the gameplay makes up for it. Thank god you don't have to worry about the air meter anymore. 
 Now you have a gravity meter, and it doesn't matter if it runs out, you won't be on foot. The zero 
 gravity controls are very good, but the real controls aren't. Luckily, the wiimote on side technique 
 lets you use the control pad, so don't worry about practically tilting the wiimote upside down. 
 Sadly, there's still not enough characters. Silver and Blaze are awesome, and I was super-happy 
 to see Amigo and Billy Hatcher, but in all, this game just needed a better storyline, more characters, 
 and more stages. The missions were way easier than the first one and I unlocked the Chaos Emerald 
 gear so fast it's not even funny (and frankly Super Sonic sucks in this game a lot because he's 
 only power-type. I'm also getting tired of the remade stages that don't really differ between stories. 
 The other big opportunity SEGA missed was using the Wi-Fi on Wii for online racing, but just like 
 the Olympic Games, you can only check rankings as well as your own. We'll have to wait to see is 
 it hits the so-called sequel to this game...
  All in all, zero gravity is a good game with a terrible story. Hopefully the cliffhanger is true 
 and there is another sequel with all the stuff zero gravity didn't have. I recommend this game 
 for any Sonic fan of course, but I wouldn't exactly recommend this as a buy for non-Sonic fans. 
 Rent it of play it at a friends. Maybe you'll be as addicted as I was. All in all, let's see when 
 Sonic Riders 3 comes out.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay3695
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Sonic riders zero gravity is one of the best sonic games i've played, and one of the best racing 
 games also. The main game is pretty short it takes 
  5-7 hours but to beat all bonus levels in the missions and to unlock every character probably takes 
 12-15 hours, and then ofcourse to get every gear and set all your high scores takes as long as 
 you like. but other than being a little short it is a great multi-player game with hours on end 
 of fun. It follows the story from the last Sonic riders with Jet wanting to Beat sonic in a race, 
 but it takes a turn in events, so i like the story more because its different from previous sonic 
 games. This sonic game goes into the history of the Babylonian's ancestors and brings a new power 
 of gravity control instead of chaos control, it works all the same though. But thats one of the 
 best things in the game is the gravity control it helps out alot and allows you to do some sweet 
 tricks, plus if you master gravity control than you never have to worry about sharp turns again. 
 Now this is truly a really fun game especially the multi-player Grand Prix it's kind of like Mario 
 Kart. So this game at least gets an 8.5 in my book, and you should definetly check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingReala
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  I f you played the first and didn't like it don't think the same about this one. Sonic Riders Zero 
 Gravity ais a huge improvement. Here I will give my full review
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  The gameplay has much improved. Now instead of trying hard to win and you still lose a race you 
 can actually try hard and win the race. The downside is that the controls still need some tweeking 
 but for a racing game, it has great gamepay
  
  Story: 7/10
  Thuogh the story was okay it still felt a bit slow. There weren't any exciting moments except the 
 insert scene. The cutscenes are also a bit short. The good thing is that you don't have to play 
 the entire story mode again just to see the cutscenes.
  
  Replay Value: 9/10
  For once this series has replay value instead of playing boring old missions. Here you get to play 
 fun missions and replay a good story mode. Though it doesn't sound like it, it has a lot of replay 
 value. which shoud consume some time if you like to go all out on games.
  
  Basically that's my review. I didn't do graphics because I don't believe in judging a game by mainly 
 graphics. So overall: 8.5/10 This game will ad some fun to anyones boring old lives and is a must 
 buy for any Sonic fan. If you aren't get after Brawl comes out. Trust me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiidog
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  First off this game is exactly like the first Sonic Riders. It plays the same and some of the new 
 controls are even worse. When i first started playing the game i used the Wii remote but playing 
 with it is very akward and difficult. The game doesnt pick up the motion well. Then i used the 
 gamecube controller. The gamecube controller worked really well but honestly, with the gamecube 
 graphics and using the gamecube controller, it feels like your playing a gamecube game. That feeling 
 really takes away from the gameplay. The graphics have not improved from the first at all. The 
 only thing that has changed is sonics style ( it's futuristic ) . This was very disappointing because 
 if the graphics were like mario galaxy or zelda it could have been stunning. Now the gameplay is 
 very lack luster. You dont control the tricks you do. You press one button and start flipping, 
 which is really lame. The whole "gravity dive" thing lasts for only a few seconds and isnt very 
 exciting. People keep saying things go flying but only one or two objects may even move. And the 
 upgrading your gear mid race is lame also. All they say is gear change and the board will shine 
 for a quick second and it looks exactly the same. Half the time i dont even know what got upgraded. 
 It's really sad. Now the story is the worst thing of all. It has no real thought are exciting plot. 
 It's just pathetic. The new extra games ( if thats what you want to call them ) are pointless and 
 just dont make sense. Overall this game my just be worse than the first. If you for some reason 
 liked the first Sonic Riders you may like this one but dont look forward to any new experience. 
 It's a lame sequal and i strongly suggest you dont waste 50 dollars on this disc ( i cant consider 
 this a game ) . Buy medal of honor 2 or something good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowFox30
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is addicting. This game should keep you going for long time if you like the feel of 
 the gameplay and if you like sonic games .If you are a sonic fan you should buy this game. Sonic 
 riders zero gravity is better the first riders game. They added new gears and new power ups. This 
 game also has downloadable ghosts to race againstfrom the leaderboard. Super Sonic is actually 
 in the game but he is the harfest to get out of the hidden characters. With the addition of new 
 characters and new story. The writers could of made the story longer but it still goes together 
 well. Also there are 3 different control types that you can you use to see which one works the 
 best for you. The story line needs to be longer and should of had wi-fi not just leaderboard. Other 
 then that it is a great game, You will enjoy this game or if your think this is the right game 
 for you then at least rent it to test it out before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolarSonic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  The Gear change make you have the advantage over your type. I like both of the gravity powers because 
 you can basically use them at anytime. My favorite one is Gravity control. I play as Sonic the 
 Hedgehog because I think he is the best character. I wish that Super Sonic was in the game though. 
 The boards are so difficult to master once when you get it the first time. There's many new gear 
 that I'm saving up to buy. There are some characters I didn't unlock like billy hatcher and nights, 
 well hopefully they come around. I wished that it had an online play between your friend and stuff. Well, 
 I guess I'll just have to deal with that and just keep playing the World Grand Prix. If you don't 
 have this game, it's one of the most exciting racing to have. I did forget to mention about the 
 story mode, and yeah it's short, so you'll probaby have most characters in the beginning anyway. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryodude
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2008 1:50 am PT
Review:  I'll make a few things clear right away. Yes, I am a big Sonic fan. I will acknowledge faults in 
 the game because they are there and affect the fun factor. My opinion is based mostly on fun factor.
 
  
  I like to get the smaller stuff out of the way first, so gameplay will be the last thing I write 
 about. Feel free to skip ahead.
  
  So here's the setup for SRZG. In some futuristic city that Sonic, Tails, and Knuckles now reside 
 in, meteorites crash to the crash and turn out to be bracelets that can control gravity. Naturally, 
 Sonic and Co. use this ability to their advantage in races. The rings cause security robots to 
 go nuts, the Babylon Rogues return searching for the origin of th bracelets as well as pay-back, 
 and Eggman is curious about the bracelets too. And so you race to the end of the story.
  
  How is this game presented? Does it look good? Well, it certainly doesn't compare to 360 or PS3, 
 but this has some of the better Wii graphics. The environments are highly detailed, colorful, and 
 smooth. All the Stages you race through have a nice futuristic look, as well as crazy design that 
 will take a few practice laps to memorize. The character models all animate well, but have weird 
 issues concerning accessories attached to the characters and don't look too pretty up close. Rounding 
 out the package is full Widescreen (no thin black bars on the sides) , 480p, and an impressively 
 solid frame rate (even in multiplayer) . The prerendered cut-scenes are perfect, as many would expect. 
 Not bad looking at all, but certainly could benefit from a little more polish. Oh, and this game 
 provides a great sense of speed... insane speed... just as a Sonic game should.
  
  Now for Sound. Should you wear head phones or crank the stereo? Honestly, it's personal preference 
 here. The Voices Actors are the same ones people love and hate. The lines a delivered well enough, 
 but cheesy can describe a few things. The dialogue is more plot oriented and concise. 
  Music is fresh and appropriate; a lot of techno. It fits this type of game, but I imagine a lot 
 of you might feel there's a better soundtrack in your personal collection. Sound effects are spot 
 on, and if you played the original game, you'll be familiar with a lot of the sound effects. 
 
  
  Now for the important part... GAMEPLAY! This game is a vast improvement... let me rephrase that, 
 a major overall of the last game. Almost every mechanic has been changed or tweaked. The old air 
 system is gone and gravity is in. The old air-is-fuel system disappears. When you run out of gravity, 
 you lose the power to super boost and boost out of sharp turns, but maintain your normal speed. 
 The slip-stream system has been toned down. They appear less frequently and they don't put you 
 on auto-pilot. Gravity is replenished like air, except without the stations for when you run out. 
 Perform tricks and collect item boxes. 
  
  Rings are back and so are mid-race upgrading, but this system has changed too. Remember how the 
 racers used to be classified as Speed, Power, or Flying? Well, if you don't, these classifications 
 determined whether you could grind, knock away objects, or use boost hoops (respectively) . This 
 is now tied to your gear, instead of the character. Each gear has three power-ups on them. Collect 
 a certain number of rings and you can activate the power-ups. In the original, the power-ups were 
 automatically activated and you kept the rings. This time around, you have to press a button and 
 lose necessary rings. Luckily, there are a lot more rings on the course than last game. There still 
 is a 100 ring cap though.
  
  Steering you character is once again a matter of preference in that this game has 3 control options. 
 Two of them are the Wii-mote alone (vertical or horizontal) and the third is a gamecube controller. 
 I can sense many will choose a GC controller, but give the Wii-mote styles a shot. The Vertical 
 mode has to basically pointing to steer. By aiming at the top you accelerate, and the bottom brakes. 
 The Horizontal style has you tilting in all directions for braking, steering and accelerating. 
 You can use the D-pad to steer instead, but it seems to conflict priority if you're tiliting the 
 remote at the same time. 
  
  The trick system has been simplified even more than it was before. All you have to do is time you 
 jump off a ramp. The closer to the edge you are when you hit the jump button, the better your trick 
 grade will be and the more gravity points you'll score. You'll also get a speed and distance boost 
 for better grades, which can also help you reach alternate paths.
  
  Now lets get on to the game's big system, gravity! This allows you to take the sharpest turn without 
 any issues, cling to a wall or ceiling to race on, or do a hyper speed boost. Pending you're control 
 style, you'll hold a button to stop in your gravity field, and then turn the camera in the direction 
 you want to go. If you have gravity points, you'll boost off at high speed. If you don't, you'll 
 just be facing that direction and have completely stopped. The Hyper speed boost, called "Gravity 
 Dive", allows you super sonic flight, knocking objects into the air and bouncing off them will 
 allow you to gain a bigger boost and stay in your Gravity Dive longer. This is activated by button 
 or a shake of the remote. You can cancel it at any time to save points, since you might need them 
 for a sudden sharp turn. Alternate paths pretty much require the use of gravity to reach. You'll 
 launch off a ramp, and if any of the walls or ceiling seem like they can be traveled on, hit the 
 gravity button and swing the camera in that direction. 
  
  Now time to condense the bad stuff into here. Steering can be a pain. The normal turning still 
 feels way to loose and you won't be able to turn effectively without advanced knowledge of a course. 
 You'll have to practice and anticipate turns. This will also make it frustrating on some of the 
 more rough terrain. The Gravity Dive controls can be a little stiff. In specific areas, the camera 
 gets placed right behind your character and it's hard to see what's coming. It can be difficult 
 to determine what is an alternate path, let alone find some of the crazier ones. The 100 ring cap 
 is horrible because extra gear cost thousands, and with only being able to get 100 ring a race 
 (barring special gear) , it'll take forever to gather all, let alone the best gears.
  
  Content wise, this game has a lot. The Story Mode won't take more than 5 hours to complete. Multiplayer 
 mode being offline only is a major negative, but there's still plenty of fun to have with friends. 
 Collecting all the gears will take some time and extra Missions return and those will have completionists 
 busy. There are six types of gear now, each having different specialties to experiment with until 
 you find your perfect fit for your play style. 
  
  Let me sum this up. Sonic fans should buy this. Racing fans should try this. Anyone who is the 
 least bit curious should try it in the cheapest way possible. While reinventing itself, this series 
 still has a few kinks that need working out, but none-the-less it is fun and dare I say the fastest 
 racing game to date.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boomer_JMoore
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 13, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  I have been an avid Sonic fan since his debut and played every last game since. When Sonic Riders 
 first came out I was like what was Sega thinking? He has no need for a Back to the Future board, 
 HE RUNS!! But I gave it a try anyways due to the fact that I was a huge Sonic fan. I loved the 
 gameplay, but could care less for the storyline (big ups to Production I. G for a beautiful animated 
 opening) . When I found out there was a sequel coming out I was like, "Ok... What else can they 
 do to the gameplay and why would they make another one?" Needless to say there were some improvements 
 in terms of gameplay and difficulty. The first one was extremely difficult and took me a few days 
 to beat. This sequel only took me close to 4 hours to beat the main story. I think the replay value 
 comes from the missions and the multiplayer and as far as controls go, I recommend using a Gamecube 
 controller. I recommend getting this title do to its fun factor. Now if only the Sonic on 360 was 
 actually this fun... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kkiirraa99
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  OKay for starters this game is awesome i didn't really care for the first game because there was 
 nothing really that special about. But this game let me tell you is very differentespecially the 
 control scheme.
  
  OKay this game i think is an overall vewry good game and here are some of the good points. One 
 is the control scheme at first it's kind of difficult butit gets easier and fun as you probably 
 know there is many control options you can choose to hold the wii remote vertically or horizontaly 
 or use a gamecube controler. most people would probably use the gamecube controler because it's 
 easier but don't it just sucks the fun out of the game if you do that. Another good thing is that 
 the controls are easy to grasp. I also think that the gravity moves are the best it makes the gameplay 
 more dynamic. Another good feature in this game is that you can constantly upgrade your hover machine 
 even though you are in a race by collecting rings that can help get to first place whenyou might 
 be like 3rd or 2nd. Lastly after you beat a stge many more missions are unlocked for that stage 
 offering alot of replay value and multiplayer is extremely good. I also think that the story isn't 
 half bad and that it' pretty good also you can unlock two sides of the story of the babylon rogues 
 and sonic and friends and there is tons of unlockable gear available at the cost of rings.
  
  I hate to say this but there were somebad things about the game. one of the major things is 
 that some of the tutorials were hard and near impossible to beat like the one for gravity control 
 you have to reach the goal in 9 seconds and it was very very difficult. also you can't win any 
 races unless you use gravity dives and gravity control because all the computer player vehicles 
 are better then yours . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigatron
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Back in 2006, Sonic Riders was met with very mixed responses. Some praised it's great sense of 
 speed, while others complained about annoyances like the pit-stops you needed to make during a 
 race. Ultimately, it was a racer with fresh ideas that was unfortunately held back by some not-so-fresh 
 ideas. Two years later, its sequel has hit the shelves for the Wii and PS2... and I must say things 
 are looking up for the ol' Blue Blur.
  
  In case you didn't know, Sonic Riders is a racer in which you use the horrendously named "Extreme 
 Gear" to hover around and beat your opponents in futuristic race tracks. It's an exciting blend 
 of fast-paced action you'd expect from a Sonic game, with thrills you'd find in racers like F-Zero.
 
  
  Replacing the awful "turbulence" system found in its predecessor, Zero Gravity now gives the player 
 a Gravity meter, which is filled depending on the tricks you nail and the power-ups you pick up. 
 Using your GP (Gravity Points) , you can do a very nice drift maneuver that gives you a boost, activate 
 a "gravity dive" which propels you into flight, and cling on to the wall to utilize an alternate 
 path. Gimmicky as it is, it's a very exciting and unique feature which I haven't seen in any racing 
 game before. It's very satisfying to see your character blazing ahead, giving off a G-force so 
 strong that it sends every object around you flying! Using gravity also gives off this awesome 
 slow-motion "DOOOOSH" effect, which is quite cool. You can also upgrade your Gear during the race 
 with the rings you collect. This is essential to accessing the short-cuts available for Speed, 
 Power, and Flight type characters.
  
  Speaking of characters, there's 18 of them playable, and they range from your old favorites to 
 some surprise guests (Billy freakin' Hatcher!) . They all control very well, and there's 3 styles 
 to choose from. One is holding the wiimote to the side and tilting to steer. It's a simple yet 
 effective setup that doesn't feel tacked-on. You can also hold the wiimote forward like a pointer. 
 This doesn't feel quite as natural as the sideways style, but different strokes for different folks 
 I guess. Lastly, if you're a traditionalist you can opt for a gamecube controller.
  
  The story mode is lackluster, but that's to be expected. The actual plot is really simplistic and 
 childish and brings nothing new or interesting to the table. Why SEGA decided to keep the lame 
 "Babylon Rogues" characters is beyond me. The voice acting is pretty solid, but expect some corny 
 lines. The tracks this time are more numerous and varied than the last game, and overall they're 
 just designed better. Ultimately you'll want to play through the story just to access goodies like 
 gear, tracks, and characters (and there's a lot of them, too) . You can also complete challenges 
 like Survival mode, or just do a single race. Multiplayer is offline only, but you and buddies 
 will have a blast nonetheless.
  
  The graphics are alright... but merely alright. This still looks exactly like the gamecube version, 
 which is understandable since it's released alongside a PS2 version as well. While the game moves 
 at a fast clip, the wii can do much better and it's a shame because it had the potential to be 
 visually striking like Sonic and the Secret Rings was. But the graphics aren't BAD, so it's not 
 that big of a deal. It's also worth mentioning that the game supports widescreen, which is always 
 a welcome feature.
  
  The music is all electronic and technoey, which is fitting for a futuristic racer. However it comes 
 off a bit generic when compared to other Sonic games. Even so, the music is still GOOD, but it's 
 nothing special.
  
  The Wii version features Wi-Fi that allows users to upload their scores and download other people's 
 ghost data. While that's all fine and dandy, where's the online multiplayer? This game would easily 
 be a must-own if it did.
  
  Fans of Sonic are going to rejoice over the various improvements, and racing fans will likely find 
 the game's mechanics to be engaging and fresh. Excite Truck had the potential to be the wii's best 
 racer, but a lack of content and personality really held it back. Seeing how SR: Zero Gravity fixes 
 both of those problems, I can't NOT recommend it. The game simply packs in a lot of fun, which 
 is what Sonic games are so desperately needing. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
