-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sonic and the Black Knight
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/adventure/sonicandtheblackknight/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great sense of speed.
 Lush visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Simple, uninteresting gameplay.
 Dull, sluggish combat.
 Frustrating boss battles.
 Mystifying rating system.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 12, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 5.6, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 413 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Sonic Team
Genre: Adventure
Date: Mar 3, 2009
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Sonic finds shallow, frustrating gameplay awaiting him in the legendary realm of King Arthur.

  At first glance, Sonic and the Black Knight looks like a success, seeming poised to deliver the 
 sorts of speedy thrills that make the heroic hedgehog's greatest adventures so exhilarating. But 
 alas, it quickly becomes clear that this sense of speed comes at the expense of anything resembling 
 entertaining gameplay. Sonic and the Black Knight is a simple, sloppy, frustrating game.  

           There's a great sense of speed that makes the game look even better in motion.      

 
  Darkness has fallen on the once-thriving realm of King Arthur. The noble ruler has been corrupted 
 by the power of immortality granted by the scabbard of the sacred sword Excalibur and has summoned 
 armies from the underworld to stamp out all that is good and pure in the land. Merlina, granddaughter 
 of Arthur's sorcerer, Merlin, summons the only one who can defeat the king and restore prosperity 
 to the realm. Sonic falls out of the sky to find himself thrust into a world without chili dogs 
 or Dr. Robotnik, though the knights of the Round Table who will fight both against and alongside 
 him bear an uncanny resemblance to allies and rivals from his home. Sonic arms himself with the 
 pompous talking sword Caliburn and sets off to become a true knight and save the land. The tale 
 is told in a simple but charming storybook style, and while the plot bears little connection to 
 actual Arthurian legend, it successfully pulls off the unusual concept of tossing the blue blur 
 into a fantasy landscape without the whole thing coming off as absurd.  

  Unfortunately, the gameplay doesn't pull off the concept nearly so successfully. The levels are 
 narrow and linear and typically require you to do nothing more than hold up on the nunchuk's thumbstick 
 to tear through them and tap A on the remote to jump over the occasional obstacle. You can also 
 maneuver left or right a smidge, which is useful for avoiding environmental hazards or smashing 
 objects to collect the rings that serve as Sonic's hit points. Sonic turns in all the right places, 
 grinds on rails, leaps from pole to pole, and performs other acts of derring-do, but he does it 
 all without any input from you, making you feel more like a spectator to the action than a participant. 
 There are a few different types of missions -- some involve just reaching the goal, while others 
 have you defeating a certain number of enemies or handing rings over to townspeople by matching 
 a few onscreen button presses -- but the simplicity of it all makes the experience feel dull and 
 repetitive long before the tale reaches its conclusion.  

  You'll encounter plenty of foes blocking your path, but whether they take the form of generic knights, 
 giant spiders, or more generic knights, fighting them is a basic affair of blocking attacks with 
 the Z button and hacking your foes with a quick shake of the remote. Considering how fast the game 
 is in other respects, the combat is incredibly sluggish, with a noticeable delay between your shakes 
 and Sonic's swings. There's also a powerful special attack called the soul surge that you can use, 
 provided Sonic has some energy in his soul gauge. Anything that lets you make short work of your 
 enemies is a blessing, since the tiresome combat makes them less of a challenge and more of a nuisance. 
 It's a relief when you can just jump over groups of enemies as you speed toward the goal and avoid 
 dealing with them altogether.  

           Sonic doesn't always require your input to navigate obstacles.      

  Boss fights 
 can't be avoided, which makes sense, but it's unfortunate because they feature one of the most 
 annoying mechanics in the game. Whenever you clash swords with these foes, an image of the remote 
 being repeatedly angled up and down appears on the screen. However, if you angle the remote up 
 and down repeatedly yourself, your opponent will invariably triumph and deal you some damage. You're 
 supposed to respond to this prompt with a single swinging motion, though the game is never clear 
 about this. It's also wildly inconsistent about the amount of time you have to respond to the prompts, 
 sometimes giving you a moment, while at other times seemingly requiring you to anticipate them 
 and begin the swing before it appears.  

  In fact, the game is lousy in general about communicating with you. At the end of each stage, for 
 instance, you're given a rating on your performance on a scale of one to five stars, but neither 
 the game nor the manual states what is factored into this rating. If you're given a low rating, 
 is it because you were too slow? You took too much damage? You didn't slay enough enemies? The 
 stars you earn bring you closer to leveling up Sonic's combat proficiency, granting you speed and 
 attack bonuses, but the opacity of the rating system makes trying to improve your performance rather 
 like fumbling about in the dark. There are other light role-playing elements as well, like collecting 
 and identifying items you can equip Sonic with. You can also use these items to create weapons 
 for the other playable characters who become available at about the halfway point. Though the other 
 characters have slightly different move sets, neither these new moves nor the equippable items 
 and weapons have a significant impact on gameplay.  

  Sonic and the Black Knight is a good-looking game, even when you're moving slowly enough that you 
 can actually get a good look at your surroundings. The levels are richly detailed, and there are 
 a variety of environments to whiz through, from lush open grasslands to the courtyards of a majestic 
 castle to a tumultuous volcanic wasteland. Details like blazing sunsets and flashes of lightning 
 in the distance lend all the action a dramatic flair, though the enemies you encounter have a sameness 
 to them that makes fighting them all the more dull. The audio presentation is decent, with a soundtrack 
 composed mostly of faux-metal J-pop songs. The exaggerated thwacks and whooshes you hear are a 
 fitting accompaniment to all of Sonic's leaping and soaring through the air. Sonic sounds as cocky 
 as ever, and the rest of the voice cast turn in equally fitting performances.  

           The game never makes it clear how to deal with this situation.      

  In addition 
 to the single-player adventure mode, there's a local multiplayer mode that lets up to four players 
 compete in various small-arena battles and games of tag, but this mode is so threadbare that it's 
 unlikely anyone will bother with it for long. You can also compete in a selection of events in 
 a ranking mode to have your score posted on a global leaderboard. There's no shortage of challenges 
 to complete, even after you've put in the six hours or so to get through the main story, but the 
 gameplay is just too basic and tedious to make this prospect enjoyable. This particular sword should 
 have been left stuck in the stone where it belongs.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
