-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Soulcalibur Legends
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/soulcaliburlegends/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 You slash up bad guys using the Wii Remote.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Cheap deaths in lieu of real challenge.
 Boring, repetitive combat.
 Lame tasks that masquerade as puzzles.
 You muddle through the same short, linear, ugly levels over and over again .
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 13, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 5.3, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 706 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games America
Developer: Namco Bandai Games
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Nov 20, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A revered series takes a nosedive in this embarrassing, tedious excuse for an action game. 

 
  There comes a point while playing Soulcalibur Legends, after fighting the same boss you've already 
 faced five or six times, when you're left wondering if the game will ever end. Yet against all 
 odds, it keeps throwing one quest after another at you, sending you back to the same levels you've 
 visited over and over again. Brevity is not often considered a strong selling point in an action 
 adventure game, but this one would have benefited from a good pruning. As it is, Soulcalibur Legends 
 is a boring, mind-numbingly ugly game that melds monotonous remote-waggling combat and cheap deaths 
 into a single disappointing package.  

           So that's what she calls them.      

  The narrative starts off promisingly with a nice cutscene and an interesting tutorial level, and 
 then directly plummets into the depths of Hades. If you are a series fan, you will probably have 
 at least some passing interest in Siegfried's discovery of the sword Soul Edge and his subsequent 
 transformation. But any curiosity will quickly devolve into boredom as you follow an odd handful 
 of adventurers brought together by one implausible twist after another, to the point where you 
 wonder what possible coincidence will usher in the next unlockable character. Dialogue is clichd 
 and overblown, but at least you will get to ogle Mitsurugi's scowl and Taki's spectacular and peculiarly 
 oval breasts.  

  Prior to most levels, you can choose which two characters you want to take with you (you only play 
 as one at a time, though you can switch between them at will) . Then, you fight a lot of dudes. 
 Some of them are skeletons, some of them are ninjas, and some of them are lizardmen, but for the 
 most part, you run into the same ones time and time again. To fight them, you wriggle the Wii Remote 
 around to swing your weapon. Granted, certain motions result in a more or less equivalent onscreen 
 swing of the sword, so flinging the remote upward will result in a corresponding upward slash, 
 and so on. You can also block using the Nunchuk's Z button and jump with the remote's B button, 
 and once you build up enough power by collecting orbs or defeating baddies, you can hold the C 
 button to execute a charged attack. Yet while late-game battles do benefit some from a firm grasp 
 on well-timed slashes and blocks, you can slice your way through the majority of the campaign by 
 slashing about randomly without much regard for these differences. There's nothing inherently wrong 
 with the control scheme, but there is little subtlety to it. You can string together combos, but 
 it's just as easy to do it at random as it is to do so purposely.  

  The levels you hack your way through are short (many take just a few minutes to get through) and 
 entirely linear, and you revisit the same ones ad nauseam. Sometimes when you return to one, you 
 may be starting at the opposite side from where you first completed -- but apart from a few surprises 
 (a few spacey, alternate-reality levels jump to mind) , you will navigate through the same unsightly 
 ice caverns, narrow grassy paths, and ugly brown corridors time and time again. A typical level 
 consists of entering a small area enclosed by doors or force fields and pounding on a bunch of 
 respawning enemies until you slay enough for the door that leads you to the next area to automatically 
 open. It's a common gaming convention to be sure, but in Soulcalibur Legends, it happens many times 
 in almost every level -- even the shortest ones -- and is one of many examples of the game's complete 
 lack of imagination.  

  In an apparent effort to mix things up, the game throws a few traps and puzzles at you from time 
 to time. Actually, calling these tasks "puzzles" is generous, since they essentially boil down 
 to unnecessary busywork. You may need to slice through ropes to lower a drawbridge, knock some 
 statues around until they face the proper direction, or fan the flames of a fiery goblet to open 
 a door, but there's no inherent challenge to any of these chores. At least they're inoffensive, 
 whereas the trap elements are inherently terrible and easily the worst facet of Soulcalibur Legends. 
 Oftentimes, a collection of enormous boulders will come rolling down the stupidly narrow pathway 
 in front of you, forcing you to backtrack to find a corner to hide in, dodge them (often entirely 
 impossible, when there are three of them rolling at you) , or simply take the huge amount of damage 
 they inflict and hope there are some health orbs nearby. The rolling rocks are terrible ideas in 
 and of themselves, considering the claustrophobic level design, but the awful, sluggish camera 
 rubs further salt into this gaping wound. At times, you won't even know the boulder is coming because 
 the camera hasn't turned yet to let you see the corridor you are entering. By that point, it's 
 usually too late, and all you can do is let the stony hand of fate mete out its undeserved punishment. 

  Other traps like wall daggers and bursts of acid dole out similarly annoying harm. Much of the 
 time, these things are easily avoided, whereas other times, the slow camera and constricted corridors 
 again conspire against you. In some levels, the harmful substances spewing from the walls or floor 
 have no obvious conduit (wouldn't it be nice if a pipe were there to show you what spot you needed 
 to evade?) . In others, pillars will topple over without warning, bringing with them the same cheap 
 damage Soulcalibur Legends makes it a habit to impose on you. You'll also need to deal with the 
 occasional wall of fire, though you simply need to swing your sword to extinguish it. The game 
 explains that the gust of air from your powerful swing is enough to put it out, but for all intents 
 and purposes, to defeat flames, you attack them.  

           Not all of the skeletons you encounter are the same. Some have red eyes, and some have 
 blue.      

  Along with ugly gameplay, you'll have to put up with unattractive visuals. Character models are 
 the only saving grace -- they animate well and look like the well-known characters they represent. 
 Otherwise, Soulcalibur Legends is an ugly game, featuring blocky geometry, dreadful ground and 
 wall textures, environments often completely devoid of any objects (save the occasional barrel 
 or urn) , and the aforementioned repeated enemy and map designs. Sound comes across a little better, 
 thanks to a pleasant-enough soundtrack and some decent voice acting during the interstitial cutscenes. 
 The grunts and groans of combat wear thin very quickly, though the levels are over so fast, you 
 will likely not grow too annoyed by them.  

  If all this droning hack-and-slash combat is your thing, you can join a buddy and play through 
 the story cooperatively. Alternately, you can compete for high scores in one-off levels, or even 
 swing swords at each other in the yawn-inducing versus mode. Don't let the title of the mode confuse 
 you into thinking there are fighting elements to be found, though. You just hammer on your opponent 
 using the same dull mechanics you use in the rest of the game. Considering most games benefit from 
 the addition of a friend, it's just a further nail in Soulcalibur Legends' coffin that the addition 
 of another player can't make the game more fun to play. It's too bad the revered fighting game 
 franchise had to be besmirched in such spectacular fashion, but even if you're a Soul Calibur fan -- actually, 
  especially  if you are a Soul Calibur fan -- you are better off pretending that this spin-off never 
 existed.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (36 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: thefragenator
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 20, 2009 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Other than my previous comments there is really nothing to say about this game. The difficulty 
 changes drastically from one section to another quite quickly. In most areas you fight unimaginative 
 enemies which are more than easy to dispatch with repetive combos that make you look like an idiot 
 flailing about. However, then the game changes to extreme difficulty to where the most terrifying 
 opponent is rolling rocks. Yes, that's right rocks are probably the most dangerous oppenent in 
 the game. I will admit that I am being quite harsh on the game, yet there was no excuse for this 
 game to be made. The excellent fighting series should not have been turned into a hack and slash. 
 I am not saying that I do not like hack and slashes either. On the contrary, I own many different 
 hack and slashes form Champions Return to Arms to many of the Dynasty Warriors games. The point 
 is that this game is a blatant attempt at getting more money. It doesn't take long to realize that 
 not much attempt or thought went into the production of this game due to lack of originality, challenging 
 moments leading to un epic engagements, and a sloppy fighting system. All and all if you are looking 
 for a good hack and slash look elsewhere. Not even worth a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Purple_Mongoose
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Soul Caliber II is easily my favorite fighting game of all time and the new installment of Soul 
 Caliber 4 is a great entry also. But the Wii didn't get Soul Caliber 4, it got Soul Caliber legends. 
 This game had potential coming out of its ear holes, but its poor deliverance and lack of level 
 design made this game forgettable. 
  
  Don't get me wrong, the concept is great. Use the Wiimote to swing Siegfried's sword and mow down 
 dozens upon dozens of enemies. This game was amazing in the opening level. Siegfried stumbles upon 
 Soul Edge and then has to face Cervantes at the end of a long trek through his pirate ship. From 
 there the game just gets horribly repetitive. There may be a total of 7 or 8 different level designs, 
 and you'll have to play through those what feels like 50 times each. But then the level will throw 
 a change-up at you in a boss battle. Usually these bosses aren't all too hard. Later in the story, 
 instead of facing different bosses, you'll have to face the same ones over again. Talk about lack 
 of imagination.
  
  The high points of this game are the boss battles you DON'T have to repeat. I only gave this game 
 a 5.5 because of its amazing final boss battle, or at least amazing in comparison to the rest of 
 the game. Any boss battle you don't have to repeat is a good boss battle in this game.
  
  As for the controls, you have to ask yourself, what controls? Orchestrating combos is as simple 
 as swinging the Wiimote in circles. You could block, but that's just stupid in this game. 
  
  I can't argue with the character selection though. This is not the same as a standard fighting 
 game, so you only get to pick from seven different characters. I'm a Mitsurugi fanboy, so it worked 
 out fine for me.
  
  Overall this game is okay at best. The only reason it was made was because of the impending release 
 of the 4th installment. It tricked me into buying it. Don't fall for that trick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zh666
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 1, 2009 7:28 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a Soul Calibur fan, I played the first one in the arcade and Soul Calibur II on the Gamecube. 
 Outside of that, I really don't care about the history of the characters or anything like that. 
 Basically, I'm not reviewing this as a Soul Calibur fanboy. With that said.....
  
  Oh man... Soul Calibur Legends was bad. It was really bad. Maybe not a 3.5 that Gamespot handed 
 it out, but it wasn't much better than that really. What really annoyed me the most about this 
 game was I had expected a short game. I expected no more than 5 or 6 hours, but I ended up getting 
 twice as much time out of that. That's a good thing for most games, but Soul Calibur Legends was 
 torture. Ok, so the first 6 hours of the game was actually really easy, and while I wasn't have 
 fun with it, it still felt like something I could breeze through and forget about. Then the difficulty 
 ramped up. I died atleast 100 times within the last few hours of the game. Most of it wasn't even 
 my fault. I mostly blame the lousy camera or cheating enemies that box you into a corner and spam 
 you with special attacks. 
  
  Overall, it's frustrating, boring, and tiring. I can't think of anything in this game that I LOVED. 
 A few boss fights maybe, but that's all I can think of. Basically, this game was slapped together 
 at last minute. You fight through the same 8 or so levels atleast 10 times, you fight the same 
 bosses atleast 3 or 4 times, and you fight the same enemies 1,000,000 times. There are puzzles 
 in the game, but once you figure one out, then you basically know how to do the rest. 
  
  The storyline is forgettable, and the graphics are dated. Screw this game. 
  
  ----------Battle 
 System ----------
  Soul Calibur Legends is a simple beat'em up, hack n' slasher. There isn't much to talk about in 
 this section because the game is super freaking simple. When you start a stage, you are given your 
 goals, 99 times out of 100, it's to kill everything and not die. 
  
  There are about 3 moves in the game it seems, a horizontal slash, a vertical slash or a stab. You 
 can take a guess how to make those Wii-motions. When you kill a monster or take damage, you'll 
 gain a little bit of Magic Power. Once you get enough, you can unleash a special move by holding 
 down the C button and performing any of those previous attacks to create up to 3 special moves. 
 I don't mind this battle system, but in a hack n'slasher like this it does get a little tiring. 
 I think the Wii picks up on the movements pretty well, expect for the horizontal slash. I have 
 trouble time and time again trying to perform this move. 
  
  You don't fight alone in this game, well for the most part you don't. You find 6 different partners 
 in the game. During most of the stages, you can take a partner with you. You can switch this character 
 in and out of battle at will, it's a shame they couldn't be an AI character like in Kingdom Hearts 
 or Summoner 2, but whatever. Each character has their own HP and Magic points. So you have to stratigize 
 a bit when to use them or not. Each character can equip up to 4 different weapons, but you have 
 to unlock them through out the game. 
  
  I honestly can't tell the difference between the weapons. They do level up though, but I'm not 
 100% sure how that happens. You find Skill Items on the battle field, this makes your character 
 better, but I honestly don't know how it makes them any better or worse than they were previously. 
 After you beat a stage, all your points tally up and you can gain a new title. There's a ton of 
 titles you can get, but once again, I'm not sure if they affect your characters or not. So yeah, 
 your characters do grow a bit, adding a bit of RPG element to the game, how there is hardly an 
 indication telling you how they grow. 
  
  My biggest complaint overall has to do with the camera control. You don't have ANY control over 
 the camera, but rather your character will automatically lock on to the nearest enemy. This is 
 fine, but if you are running straight, and then all of a sudden you lock onto something, your camera 
 will spin and confuse the hell out of you. You can unlock on the character, but it's still frustrating. 
 Another problem I had with the camera is walking up stairs. You can't check and see if a bolder 
 is tumbling towards you most of the time. Boulders only take 3 hits before you are dead, or less 
 if you are low on HP. When you can't see or even hear a boulder coming at you because of the crappy 
 camera, then theres a problem here. 
  
  
  ----------Characters / Story ----------
  You play as Siegfried, and you find the Soul Edge on board a ship. Siegfried gets a strange power, 
 and he must use his new power to defeat the gods that are terrorizing the world. Or something like 
 that. The story was terrible and made little sense. I like the dialog scenes between the levels, 
 they remind me alot of Fire Emblem. 
  
  
  ----------Graphics ----------
  Ehh... The graphics during the cutscenes are good, not great, but not terrible. The Wii could do 
 better than this, it's a shame the developers got lazy. The problem is there are very very few 
 cutscenes. There are actually two styles of cutscenes. The opening and end sequence uses that stop-motion 
 cell animation, with a little bit of CGI to spice it up. I like those, because it's stylish, but 
 they only show up a few times. The other cutscenes use full 3D character models and clever camera 
 angles. The characters move fluently, and I did these cutscenes too, however there are only a few 
 of them. Another problem with those cutscenes is they repeat them a few times. 
  
  Besides that, the level designs are TERRIBLE. They seriously look worse than Castlevania: Curse 
 of Darkness. Not only do they look worse, but they play worse too. The whole game is a corridor 
 to room to corridor based gameplay. Screw that. 
  
  The boss fights look really cool though, nothing the PS2 couldn't do, but they're still cool looking. 
 The normal enemies are petty lame though, you'll fight atleast 100 of the same enemies within a 
 stage. They need a bigger variety of enemies.
  
  
  ----------Sound ----------
  There isn't much voice acting in this, but there is some. This reminds me of Fire Emblem: Path 
 of Radiance, durin the cutscenes the characters will talk, but during the dialog scenes, they will 
 not. The only other time there's voice work is within the stages, your characters will chat with 
 each other. The problem is you are concentrating with the battle, and between all the sound effects 
 of the monsters and your sword clashing, you won't know what the hell they're saying. The music 
 is repetitive and hardly rememberable. 
  
  
  ----------World Map ----------
  The map is a standard linear menu map. The storyline flows pretty linearly, but you will eventually 
 unlock multiple locations at a time, and you can choose which one to do first. You can't go back 
 and replay a previously played level, however I do have a MAJOR beef with the way they make the 
 levels in this game. There are only about 8 or so levels in the entire game. The problem is you 
 have to go through these levels atleast 5 or 6 times or even more, through this game. The level 
 design might be different, but the goals are usually the same. It's frustrating and lazy. 
  
  
  ----------Time to Complete Game ----------
  11:09:55
  
  After you beat the game, you 
 unlock new modes for your Party mode, everyone gets their fourth weapon, and you start a New Game+. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mareczek99
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  When I saw the Soul Calibur's first action adventure game on a display in a local game shop, I 
 just bought it, knowing the great previos SC titles, I did not think this could be a bad game.
 
  
  And come to think of it.. it's not.
  
  Soul Calibur Legends is more of a hack 'n slash title to me.
  
  When I've first heard this 
 is an action adventure game, I thought of a complex storyline with some cool cut scenes and lots 
 of different tasks to complete.
  
  Well.. at least one thing is as I wanted it to be.. the cut scenes are cool and well done, but 
 .. there are only a few of 'em.
  
  The storyline is also good, but I'd like to hear and see something more, than read.. read.. read 
 conversations.
  
  Combat system is decent and moves are easy to perform, but despite what You do, the efect is still 
 the same, so there is no big deal if You kill an enemy slashing from above Your head, or cut him 
 with a horisontal hit.
  
  The stages are badly desinged and very repetitive.
  You'll have to get through every stage at least 2-3 times with diffrent task (slay somebody else, 
 than You did before) .
  
  So.. to sum things up, I'd say it is pretty much like a standard SC title, just imagine soul calibur 
 3 with multiple enemies on stage, You got the idea.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: can_drive_55
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  Just because you have fallen in with micro**** doesn't mean that ALL Wii games suck, granted, the 
 levels and bosses get tedious, but at least they're levels and not ARENAS. Honestly, if you don't 
 like the game, just don't play it!
  
  You may be game critics, but that doesn't mean you can unfairly give Wii games low ratings! Put 
 some thought into it, and try to enjoy the finer points of the game before you rant on and on about 
 how much you think it sucks!
  
  I liked it, the levels do get boring, though, but that will happen in any game that has levels, 
 they get used over and over. Also, I don'; t mind the enemies being used and reused, it's part of 
 any soul calibur game, you just have to learn to accept the fact that enemies will be recycled 
 in one way or another. The graphics aren't bad for a Wii game, so I have no idea what you are on 
 about. Swining to attack is a nice break from having to learn all those difficult button-combos.
 
  
  /end rant 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lio83197
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  When you think Soulcalibur, you think "Wow that game HAS to be amazing". I guess thats not always 
 true. The single player Quest mode in this game is relatively easy. I've only spent 2 hours playing 
 it, I've already reached Chapter 4, and I've only died once and that was against these two bosses 
 that you have to fight, and even then the battle was very close. The game play is good, I like 
 how you can swing the remote and attack while moving your guy around with the control stick. The 
 graphics are also pretty damn good as well.
  
  The story line is alright, but this one character keeps talking about his home country and his 
 sister's bread... so far I haven't found any meaning behind that, it seems like mindless rambling. 
 There are only 6 or 7 characters to choose from, which is no where near being awesome. 
  
  The two player mode is pretty good, but I haven't played it extensively. So if you are just looking 
 for a game where you can swing your remote around and get an idea of how sword fighting games for 
 the Wii are, then by this game; otherwise stay away from it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffemt215
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  i don't see why it gets bad reviews, its a good graphics, good storyline, game. this is by far 
 one of the best action adventure games on the wii. the difficulty is just right so u don't get 
 frustrated and quit playing, and the storyline actually keeps your attention and makes you wanna 
 keep on playing. The wii mote is very responsive rarely if ever missing a beat. i would not compare 
 it to final fantasy in any respect besides its that type of game, but they are two different story's 
 two different games. i think the bad reviews comes from that soulcalibur is normally a fighting 
 game (like streetfighter or mortal combat) not a action adventure so the "Loyal Fanboy" couldn't 
 stand to see the soulcalibur name on anything other then what it has been. so if your looking for 
 a great fantasy game to entertain you for days pick up soulcalibur legends. and don't believe all 
 the downers out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper472
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 27, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  So, I recently rented Soulcalibur Legends for the Wii because, despite my intense hatred for that 
 terrible system, I still have one and there is still a Soulcalibur game for it, so I needed to 
 give it a try. However, I must sadly admit, like the Wii itself, I was terribly upset and let down 
 by this game. I don't even consider it a true SC title. It seemed lie it was a rushed, thrown together 
 game just to say there is one for the Wii. It looks terrible on my HDTV (mainly the Wii's fault 
 anyways) and the game play was less than to be expected by a SC game. I was very disappointed, 
 and can't wait to get SCIV, so I can get the bad taste out of my mouth that this less than average 
 game left there. Through the few hours I did give this game a try, I was bored out of my mind by 
 repetitive junk and horrid storytelling. There weren't many redeeming factors, the game seemed 
 like it was just a cameo filled, rushed, and un tested flop trying to milk the Soulcalibur name. 
 Please, like most games for the Wii, don't ever make anything like this again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blako782
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 14, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  You do not want to even rent this game, it's that bad!
  
  The good. 4 player multiplayer. The artwork of the talking scenes ( Like the ones in Fire Emblem) 
 actually look great, anime styled. Animations aren't that bad.
  
  The Bad. The graphics are very bad! extremely last-gen. The action is basically waving the wii-mote 
 around until your wrist hurts. Other attacks are very useless! The multiplayer is abysmal! Competition 
 is just whoever has the faster character, while waving around the wiimote. Lylod or however you 
 spell his name is uber cheap. Gets extremely boring in 5 minutes! Only sven 7 characters. plain 
 boring. Only played the game for 27 minutes total because of how boring it was.
  
  This game was just a total waste of time and wasnt even worth trying with my gamepas at blockbuster. 
 I have to ay that that sulcaliber is aincredible series, it's just that this game i not the way 
 to have fun with the series. Play the fighting insallments instead of this excuse for a game.
 
  Note: I do not no how hard the game gets farther inthe game, I only got to the 3rd mission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolcats1
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 26, 2008 8:08 am PT
Review:  soul calibur legends was a fun game at first but it gets to hard later on. the enemies become so 
 difficult you have to face them so many times before you beat them. ofcourse though this game has 
 some good features like the power boost you get when your green gaudge fills up. but the camera 
 angles were horrible, they remind me of the old resident evil camera angles. the thing i liked 
 the most about the game is the enemies might be tough but there COOL! such as berserkers and cervantes. 
 ( original characters brought back) and i also like the fact that the storyline is based around 
 seigfried and him collecting shards of soul edge. seigfried is my best character anyway so im pretty 
 good at most parts of this game. but i do have to admit it was not namcos or nintendos best piece 
 of work. i still kind of regret buying it instead of the umbrella chronicles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mugen_tha_dream
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  this game is fun and fluffy. the wii motions are suprisingly very consistent where you swing. combos 
 are fun and easy and if you love gauntler like i you will cherish thi sgame like the moment you 
 first saw a breast. Magical it is but i have yet to try Co-Op cuz i just bought it. Many a game 
 are tarnished by GS but no more i will storm gamespot and demand respect for my games. This game 
 does nothing to ruin soul caliburs good name. The graphics are not broken andf not horrible there 
 quit good. but compareing the m to galaxies or brawl i ludacris in two senses. 1. the graphics 
 are overall more polished and detailed. 2. its a whole nother wrld, doin a old castle like setting 
 is alot different from hoppin world to world. overall fun cant wait to get the rest of the charaters 
 even thoguh there a lack but i only have 2. Get it you wont regret just make sure you like the 
 type of game, you can say a RPG/Dungeon Craler 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NFS102
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 29, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  Soulcalibur is regarded as one of the greatest fighting franchises of all time. Namco's original 
 "Soulcalibur" is regarded as one of the best games of all time, including a perfect score from 
 Gamespot. Now Soulcalibur makes its appearance on the Wii, but this time as an action adventure 
 game. Now I know Namco was trying to o something new, but that is no excuse for the quality of 
 the game they created. I actually liked the idea of a new genre, but Soulcalibur Legends is almost 
 a disgrace to the series. The game does very few things right, and far too many wrong.
  
  The main gameplay of Soulcalibur Legends is simple, you kill your enemies. At your disposal are 
 a few attacks that your character can perform. You can swing the Wii-mote sideway to slash your 
 sword sideways, swing up to perform an uppercut, and swing down to a down-slash. Isn't that a lot 
 of diversity? No, not really. The attacks all do basically the same thing, so you can really just 
 spas out and hope for the best. This is actually what the combat feels like. You can try to string 
 together combos, but really the fighting has no strategy at all. The enemies you fight also don't 
 have much diversity. You'll fight skeletons, lizards... and some other stuff too, but really you'll 
 feel as through your just slashing your way through the same stuff every single stage. The gameplay 
 can feel repetitive after only a few short minutes of play, so much that I barely had the will 
 to beat the first 2 or 3 levels of play.
  
  Aside from the simple and repetitive gameplay, the visuals of Legends are nowhere near what they 
 good have been. The characters themselves look simply average, but the characters movement and 
 actions look horrendous. When you slash at something, say the first boss, your sword will more 
 often than not go right through your enemies. I'm also sorry to say that your surroundings don't 
 look any better. The stages are designed horribly in my opinion. They stages look blocky and dull, 
 and they can be so ridiculously frustrating that it will make you stop playing in a heart beat. 
 For instance, you could be running through an empty hallway with no enemies at all. You might think 
 your safe from danger, but your wrong. All of the sudden a big pile of jagged spears erupts through 
 the ground and hurts you. You'll be like, "WTF? This is an empty hallway. How did I die in an empty 
 hallway ******?!" It's too bad that you have to play through the same stages again, because this 
 only increases your boredom when you have to play through the same, blocky stages again and again.
 
  
  Moving away from the single player, I'll start with the multiplayer. The game comes with three 
 multiplayer modes, which are Co-op, vs., and some other collecting thing. The Co-op is just the 
 same thing as the single player; accept you get to play with your friend. There's nothing special 
 there. In vs. mode you get to fight your friend in a 1 on 1 death match. Sadly, the battles don't 
 last very long. You'll ether kill each other really fast or those invisible spears that come out 
 of the ground will.
  
  It's a sad thing that Soulcalibur Legends was not a good game, or for that matter an almost good 
 game. The gameplay is just downright simple and boring, while the visuals are simple and dull as 
 well. I do like the fact that Namco Bandai tried something new, but I say to them "don't try again". 
 The Wii will also not be getting any part of Soulcalibur 4, so for us Wii owners we're out of luck. 
 If your going for an action adventure game, go with RE4 or LoZ. Those are better in everyway and 
 won't leave you disappointed. I myself still regard Soulcalibur as one of the top franchises on 
 the market, but Legends is one game I won't be playing again anytime soon. 
  
  I give Soulcalibur Legends a 3.0 out of 10.0
  
  -NFS102
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: knightfire35
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Soul Calibur Legends is the next game in the Soul Calibur fighting series. Soul Calibur has always 
 been about fighting. Two characters locked in an arena and fighting. But, with Soul Calibur's new 
 spin off, everything the series is known for changes. Instead of having a closed arena to fight, 
 it is an adventure 3d game. Where you have to kill all of the enemies in a certain spot before 
 advancing. It is definitely a different formula that the Soul Calibur games are know for. There 
 are only a couple characters from the Soul Calibur universe. It would have been nice to have a 
 wider selection of characters, for at least two player. The story is ok, Sigfried finds a sword, 
 and then looks around for the lost fragments. He meets other characters, who have their reasons 
 for helping him succeed. The cut scenes are a high point in the game. But they are way to infrequent 
 to make a difference. Now the boss fights are the only part of the game that are worth working 
 torward. These fights are harder than you will expect, you can get through all the levels by massing 
 your special attack, but the boss fights are a little different. You have to remember the patterns 
 the boss does, and have to develop a strategy to defeat it. These fights are the fun part of the 
 game. Over all the characters looks good, the bosses look amazing. So the graphics are not the 
 problem, it is the game play, they changed the way people think of Soul Calibur. You arm gets pretty 
 tired at the end as well, it would have been nice to have been able to use the classic controller. 
 But hey, can't win everything. If you a die hard Soul Calibur fan, and need something to keep you 
 busy then you might want to pick it up. Other than that, give it a rent first to see if you like 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alaarajab
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Namco's popular weapons-based one-on-one 3-D fighter, Soul Calibur, is now an action-adventure 
 game on the Wii. Play as some of your favorite fighters like Siegfried, Taki, Ivy, and others as 
 you travel harsh wildernesses and ancient temples to collect shards from the evil blade Soul Edge, 
 battling droves of enemies along the way.
  
  Think of Soul Calibur Legends as a classic sidescrolling beat 'em up, all done in 3-D. But instead 
 of pushing buttons to swing your sword, players literally get into the action by swinging around 
 the Wii remote and nunchuck to defeat bad guys. Swing the Wii remote horizontally or vertically 
 to perform slashes, or thrust the remote towards the screen for quick stabs. Move around your fighter 
 with the control stick on the nunchuck controller, and do quick dashes by quickly moving the whole 
 nunchuck in the direction you want to go.
  
  Play control in this fashion is mostly responsive, but quicker characters like Taki or Sophitia 
 are better at mimicking your slashing movements as opposed to slower fighters like Siegfried or 
 Asteroth. Also, sometimes your character won't dash in the same direction as your nunchuck movements, 
 but this doesn't affect the gameplay quite as much.
  
  Solo players can quest through the game's Story Mode, or another player with a separate nunchuck 
 and remote and join in for two player action in Legend's Party Mode. This mode has a few select 
 stages from the Story Mode that you can play together with a split screen co-operatively or competitively. 
 Or you can battle each other one-on-one in a VERY simplified version of the main Soul Calibur games.
 
  
  Audio and visuals aren't quite up to snuff to past games in the main Soul Calibur series, and the 
 same could be said about the general production values of Legends as well. Plus the game can get 
 a little repetitive at times. But fans of the Soul Calibur series should still like the Wii Legends 
 game, as long as they realize that it's not going to be as mind blowing as the main titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ramic
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Where do I begin with my disappointment? The colorful box art paired with the notion of playing 
 as the Soul Caliber characters in an action/adventure/ beat 'em up  
 drew me in like a gullible moth to a flame. However, it became bluntly apparent to me with the 
 opening sequence which appeared as if it had been compiled entirely in Adobe Photoshop and Aftereffects, 
 that this is indeed a budget game riding on the notoriety of a big franchise's name and likeness.
 
  
  Let's start with the graphics, shall we? To my understanding, while the Wii is not nearly the powerhouse 
 that the PS3 or the 360 claim to be, I'm fairly positive that it's at least slightly more capable 
 than the previous generation of which the Soul Caliber series most recently looked good on. And 
 that being said, one would also think that Namco would be able to easily copy the game models over 
 from the previous entry to the Soul Caliber name into this new title. My gripe that I am slowly 
 trudging towards is that there is no reason why the game models in 'Legends' should look so flipping 
 cheap and ugly. And it's not like the piss-poor backgrounds or enemy models are doing anything 
 to steal the processor's attention by any stretch of the imagination. Speaking of enemies, I'd 
 like to note that you'll be fighting the same hordes of uninspired and repetitive enemies from 
 start to finish. It's like not a single ounce of effort went into designing the enemies. You fight 
 a palette of skeletons, golems, mummies, lizard men, and so on and so forth.
  
  The unappealing visuals do not end within the actual game play; the large majority of the hacked-together 
 plot is unfolded with still frame portraits of the characters involved in the un-voiced dialogue 
 displayed over the world map while occasionally cross-fading their expressing into something that 
 may or may not match what they are possibly trying to convey. By the way, the dialogue shares the 
 same standard of writing quality as some 14-year-old's Soul Caliber fan fiction. Seriously, there 
 are parts where characters break into angst filled melodramatic speeches about their tragic childhood 
 entirely unprovoked. I've actually wanted them to stop talking just so that I could get back into 
 the horrible game play for the simple reason that it is the lesser of two evils.
  
  Perhaps the one way that SC: Legends tries to stand out on its own is the idea of swinging your 
 Wiimote to swing your sword (or other exotic weapon) . Making it one of the few Wii games I've played 
 where you actually have to mime out the actions like the system often boasts. But even that falls 
 apart as its argumentative sensitivity means that it is next to impossible to execute your moves 
 with any sort of intentional flare. Eventually you'll just boil it down to wagging your Wiimote 
 frantically as your character strings out an attack sequence which comes out adequate for what 
 you want it for. Except for when you have to specifically perform a clockwise or counter-clockwise 
 horizontal slash to solve the occasional rotating statue puzzle. For some reason, the game constantly 
 associates my counter-clockwise arm movement with either a vertical slash or a thrust.
  
  To sum it all up, I'll just say that it would probably be better if we all just forgot that this 
 installment to the series never existed and wait patiently for the next true sequel to grace our 
 consoles. Sort of like Devil May Cry 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMKFan
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 18, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Soul Calibur is fighting game series from Namco which has had 4 games so far (Soul Blade, Soul 
 Calibur 1, Soul Calibur 2 and Soul Calibur 3) and a 5th game (Soul Calibur 4) is currently being 
 worked on. This game is Soul Calibur's spin-off game, which is more of an adventure game than any 
 other Soul Calibur game.
  
  At the start of the game, Siegfried is the only playable character, then as you play through the 
 game, you unlock other popular characters from the series, such as Taki and Ivy as playable characters. 
 Some enemies includes some characters who has been in Soul Calibur before, such as Lizardman and 
 Berserker. And also some bosses includes Cervantes and Nightmare. After beating the main game mode, 
 you unlock alternate costumes for all characters and you can choose any level from the game you 
 want to play. There's also a 2 player mode, but I wasn't able to try that.
  
  This game really could have been better. Instead of attacking with buttons, you have to swing the 
 Wiimote in a certain way to perform attacks and that cause problems. I mean if you try to do a 
 certain attack, it'll end up doing another attack. This has happened to me a lot throughout the 
 game. Another problem is that you find yourself going through the same levels with little changes 
 numerous times. I wouldn't mind going through the same levels only a few times, but it happens 
 a lot in this game.
  
  For a Wii game, the graphics could have been better, but they are still okay. It looks more like 
 a GameCube game though. The music and sound is pretty much what you would expect from a Soul Calibur 
 game. The characters keep the same voices from the previous games. There's not much else to say 
 than that.
  
  Overall, I would recommend renting this game first. It's not the best Wii game out there. It has 
 it's fun parts and also it's boring parts. It's not bad for a attempt at Soul Calibur's first adventure 
 game, but it really could have been better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrunoBear
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 7, 2008 4:06 am PT
Review:  When I first heard there would be an action/adventure game of Soul Calibur, I got really excited. 
 Soul Calibur was one of my first games at the Dreamcast, and I really liked the characters... I'm 
 not a big fan of fighting games, so Legends seemed perfect for me.
  
  I personaly liked this game. It's a hack 'n slash game where you attack using the Wiimote and kill 
 a hell lot of creatures this way. The graphics are pretty decent and I liked the music.
  
  The dialogues seemed a little superficial, but not enough to screw the whole game. The story was 
 able to keep itself together quite well (from the reviews at this site, I expected there to be 
 no story at all) .
  
  What seemed to be the biggest problem in this game is the fact that you visit the same stage, say, 
 5 times on the game. There are about ten diferent stages, and the game keeps making you go from 
 one stage to another and things might get a little repetitive.
  
  But it doesn't really matter to me. It's a hack 'n slash game. It's supposed to be full of violence 
 and, as far as I'm concerned, the backgroun doesn't really matter. If there's one thing I learned 
 with God of War is that people who play those kind of games aren't expecting a good story or inteligent 
 plots. They want to kill people/things.
  
  Whoever bought this game, expected to find combats. Don't be a hipocrat and say you wanted good 
 stories, inteligent puzzles or great dialogue.
  
  The camera does suck, can't argue with that.
  
  But I still liked the game and consider it 
 a good buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicknicknick333
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Words, really cannot express how horrible this game is. Dull animations, horrible story and lack 
 of practically any substance make this game a lousy excuse for a wii port. It truly pains me to 
 say this considering I've really enjoyed Soul Calibur games in the past. This is not Soul Calibur 
 by any extent. For long time fans defending the series, I understand your point of view, but for 
 Wii owner's defending a purchase they never should have made, just accept it for what it is, a 
 game crapped out by Namco to take advantage of holiday sales and the Wii's success. Buy something 
 else, anything really, literally anything, this game is a disappointment an absolutely sickening, 
 vomit-inducing, pathetic excuse for a game. To be honest I would rather play crappy flash games 
 than this. DO NOT BUY THIS GAME AVOID AT ALL COSTS, IF YOUR FRIEND GIVES IT TO YOU FOR YOUR BIRTHDAY 
 OR SOMETHING, HE'S NOT REALLY YOUR FRIEND, HE'S TELLING YOU THAT HE HATE'S YOU 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay3695
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 21, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  Soulcalibur Legends is an alright game good enough for a 6.0 but thats about it. You think it would 
 be a cool game with the Soulcalibur legends but it only has a few characters in the game and i 
 guess they are the greats of the soulcalibur games but they could use some more. I do have to admit 
 that it has pretty good gameplay but the multi-player mode sucks. it doesn't follow any story of 
 the game you just replay a shortended level of previous ones you have beaten for nothing. But i 
 do like the new approach to the games story, instead of a plain fighting game it takes on a more 
 common action adventure rpg style, which is definetly good. But it's just to repetitive, choose 
 your characters, run through a one way map, defeat the few enemies, then defeat the simple boss. 
 Every level is the same you mite get a new weapon here and there but its all the same. Well like 
 i said though it does deserve a 6.0, i give it a 6.0 because the gameplay is decent, the graphics 
 are good for the wii, and the game includes Lloyd form tails of Synphonia for the gamecube and 
 that game was awseome so i give cred for that certain character they added in. Plus the boss battles 
 may be simple but there still fun so it's all good. So this game is o. k. but dissapointing i don't 
 think it stands to the soulcalibur reputation, and they could have done a better job on this game, 
 at least make it a little longer and possibly harder but oh well i suggest you just rent it and 
 not make the same mistake i did by buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 21, 2008 3:47 am PT
Review:  I was a very big fan of the Soul Calibur fighting series especially when I was still loving my 
 PS2, so when I heard of a Wii translation, I was so excited. Too bad it didn't work out. I mean, 
 I'd rather get a port of Soul Calibur from the Dreamcast (and purchase it in VC if ever it was 
 available) which garnered a perfect 10 in Gamespot by the way.
  
  No really, this game will definitely taint the image of this classic fighting series as it features 
 an irritating camera and repetitive controls. Somehow, I feel that the game is even unfinished 
 especially because the single player and multiplayer campaigns both suck- big time.
  
  The graphics are similar to the PS2 which is actually not bad. If you just want to see Taki or 
 her -ahem- peculiarly shaped bosom, well, she's here too. But there's not much eye candy other 
 than that especially if you're looking at almost the same designs as the last room you've been 
 to.
  
  It's just indefinitely terrible as I don't think I can find anything good with this game... Even 
 the die-hards will hate it, even if the story is about Siegfried's journey to find power, este, 
 the Soul Edge. After playing this game... I don't think I wanna know anyway. It just feels like 
 your blabbering grandma especially when you combine it with the text-based presentation.
  
  God, I've mentioned it all, so do I need to reason even more out? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Soul Calibur Legends is a Soul Calibur story that is set after the events of Soul Blade and Soul 
 Calibur 1. It's starts out as Siegfried Schauffen (later on known as Nightmare) on Cervantes' ship 
 finding Soul Edge. He wields it, and tries to leave the pirate ship, but before he gets out he 
 runs into enemies (during gameplay) , and Cervantes himself. After a successful victory against 
 Cervantes, Soul Edge thinks it found the right wielder, or so it thinks. A few months pass, Siegfied 
 is sent on a mission to find the other fragments of Soul Edge. He gets help from a man named Iska, 
 who tells Siegfried to find Ivy and Sophitia for assistance on finding the fragments.
  
  What I liked about this game is that the graphics have still that great work of art since Soul 
 Calibur 2. You also run into other characters such as Taki, Mitsurugi, Astaroth, even Lloyd from 
 Tales of Symphonia. Wii Remote work is pretty good. The player will get even more weapons further 
 on for their characters.
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that some bosses are frustrating. The traps in this game 
 are also frustrating.
  
  Overall, Soul Calibur Legends is a good adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimybrit
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  Once again nice try Namco. The only reason I tried this game is because it has Lloyd from ToS. 
 Here's my frikkin review.
  
  Graphics-5.9 Okay for a Wii game. Could've been much better though. It was blurry and glithcy. 
 But hey! Lloyd's in it!!! Hurrah!
  
  Story-6.4 The story wasn't bad or anything, just boring. All you do is do repetitive fights with 
 a few bosses here and there. But Lloyd is in it!!!
  
  Gameplay-6.2 Boring and more boring. Not even close to as good as SC 2 or 3. But Lloyd can do Falcon's 
 Crest. YEAH!
  
  Controls-6.1 The controls were crappy. They were'nt very responsive and messed up all the time. 
 Lloyd controls well thogh and well... he's awesome!
  
  Co-Op- 6.5 The co-op was probally the best thing in the game. You can't go wrong with Lloyd AND 
 Siegfried.
  
  Replay Value-6.0 I could only play through this game once before returning it to Blockbuster.
 
  
  Cutscenes- 7.0 The cutscenes were atleast kinda cool...
  
  Overall- 6.5 You already know why. But atleast it has 
  Lloyd in it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolf360rev
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay is defintely not the greatest as the game will have you swing the remote to attack 
 and the nun-chuck to slide the character. You jab forward or something like that to stab the controlls 
 get pretty tiring and it gets annoying. Plus I wouldn't recommend playing this game for 5 straight 
 hours since it does get tiring. The character's movement isn't the greatest but not to bad and 
 its not glitchy. The Jumping is kind of annoying that it needs improvement so the characters can 
 jump more cleanly.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics need improvement, sorry Namco I know you can do better than this. While that the graphics 
 aren't as terrible but his just helps bring the game down more. I know there are games with a lot 
 better graphics than this game if Namco decides to make another soul calibur game for the nintendo 
 wii I hop they learn their lesson.
  
  
  Sound:
  
  If you played any of the past sou calibur games this will be a disappointment there is really unorignally 
 soundtracks from the game. Soul calibur 2 had the best sountrack so I know Namco could have done 
 a lot better than this they need to put in a little more effort.
  
  Overall
  
  This game is pretty good in the beginning, but I'm in like chapter 5 which it then got kind of 
 annoying it is not boring though. In this game the most annoying thing is getting hit by boulders 
 which take up a good chunk of your health then you have to hope you can find a health bar thing 
 soon and not have enemies pop out to kill you. Also it also is more annoying later in the game 
 like if you die when your at the end of a mission you have to start over and this gets pretty tiring. 
 
  Some of these missions take about 7 minuets more or less depends on if you can finish quicker. 
 Other things in the game the multiplayer in the game is not like the other soul calibur games which 
 you find this multiplayer a disappointment . Overall the concept of the idea was good but the game 
 its self was good it is just not worth the fifty dollars. So i would recommend waiting for a price 
 drop on the game if your planning on buying or try if you can rent it first so you don't have to 
 waste that much money to find disappointment.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geowil
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 29, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  While this game did dissapoint me a little it was still a nice break from the full out fighting 
 style of the SC series.
  
  It was very interesting to know how Nightmare was bore from Siegfried and more into the personalities 
 of Soul Calibur and Soul Edge.
  
  The sontrols were easy to figure out and use, and the battles were just right, some of the boss 
 battles were difficult though, due to some mobility issues with the charecters.
  
  this game isnt as bad as some of the other reviewers have said, just takes an acquired taste to 
 enjoy it.
  
  you may what to rent it first, but if you like SC but always wished for a more solid storyline, 
 you should like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth-Samus
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2007 12:20 am PT
Review:  WHile the game is no masterpiece, it does have a winning formula for those who care enough to learn 
 the ropes. Awkward at first but once you zone in and nail using both hands in tandem, it's ass 
 kicking time. A fun combo system that uses the Wiimote and nunchuck very well. 
  
  My major gripe is the lack of camera control and the very limited interation with the environments. 
 It would help the imeersiveness of the adventure. Also I can see someone who can't grasp the control 
 system hating the game. As with any game, if you're no ggod you won't like it. But this one to 
 me shines with practice. 
  
  Good graphics, GREAT character models, tons of fan service, co op, lots to collect and level up, 
 and good replayability. There are some notable issues, but I just loved it despite it's flaws. 
 Do yourself a favor and at least check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scara828
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  The game, as many know starts with an awesome cut scene, but thats all the amazing in this game, 
 you usually run around moving your wii mote in any direction, the effect will be the same, and 
 you always have the sensation that if you dodge something, will be only for luck, at any case, 
 boulders running at you, attacks from enemies or bosses, you don't need brain or ability for that, 
 the bosses are dragons, skeletons, dragons, sorcerers, dragons... stuff like that, but you actually 
 can have fun trying to connect the combos you have seen in other Soul Calibur games, but thats 
 all the fun you can actually have, the dialogue is really silly, some guy just talking bout his 
 dead sister all the time, some obvious stuff and the intrusion of an unnecessary character makes 
 it even worse.
  The Soul Calibur fans may feel a little exited with this game but will eventually get bored with 
 the same environments and combos, or frustrated by the lack of interesting music or cinemas. Stay 
 away from this game if you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 23, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  I thought that video game companies had learned their lessons back int eh N64 and PS1 days when 
 they retooled Final Fight, Double Dragon, and TMNT that beat em ups were so 16 bit era. Well apparently 
 Namco hasn't recieved that memo because here comes another hack and slash your way. This time Wii 
 style. 
  
  There have been plenty of games that have shown that the Wii mote can be used as a sword. Zelda 
 is the one game that has done it well and your wrist doesn't feel that it needs surgery afterward. 
 Soulcalibur legends doesn't do at all what Zelda did for slashing with a sword and the Wii mote. 
 Basically take Double Dragon, make it 3D and add Soulcalibur characters rather then Jimmy and Billy 
 and there you go. You have Soulcalibur legends. If you still don't get the game formula here it 
 is. You run down a hallway. You encounter skeleton after skeleton (in fact I haven't fought this 
 many skeletons since Castlevania) . After you beat said skeletons you go down a hall way and repeat. 
 You will have access to a couple of the Soulcalibur characters, but they all play the same so there 
 really isn't that much in the way of replay. Rather then have cut scenes that are interesting, 
 most of them are anime styled text scenes that are really poorly written. So you aren't really 
 getting that much story after defeating a level. Then after defeating the level, you have to go 
 back and play through it again (including the same enemies and bosses) in order to continue through 
 the game. 
  
  Another issue is the graphics. The characters are ok, but they aren't nearly as nice as the prior 
 Soul games. The characters aren't very detailed. The backgrounds are just recycled through out 
 each level. You may think you are in a castle, but you're really in the prior level that you just 
 played. There are some puzzles, but only the simplest of minds wouldn't figure them out. The music 
 is just down right cheesy. Just mute your TV and play some music in the back ground. Also the voice 
 acting is really bad. Plus they pretty much say the same thing all the time, even though it's supposed 
 to be another conversation. 
  
  The controls are poor. As most games with the Wii, you can flail your arms about and still pull 
 off moves. It's hard to complete combos and even harder to pull off your "special attacks". All 
 of the characters moves are the same. Horizontal, vertical, uppercut, and that's about it. The 
 speed can vary between characters, but that's about it. 
  
  There aren't too many things that will make you actually want to complete the game. Even the bonuses 
 at the end of the game will leave saying "why did I play through all of this crap?". This game 
 is only for the newest of gamers. Hard core fans will find nothing to really want to complete here. 
 Even Soulcalibur fans will not enjoy this title that much. The story doesn't add much to the mythos 
 and isn't all that deep. In fact the game would have been a good tack on to a Soulcalibur fighter 
 much like the past MK games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foola12
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 17, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Thank god i had only rented this! This has to be one of the worst game that i have played for my 
 wii. The story line is the most horrible thing i have ever seen. I hate the fact that there is 
 no 2D sort of fighting mode that they use to have. Its a bunch of midless hacking and slashing 
 and nothing more. Even my wirsts started hurting after a while. The only thing that i liked if 
 that the fact that if you move your remote up, you slash up, and if you wave it right its slashes 
 right, and so on. There is only about 10-8 levels and you are forced to play each over and over 
 at least 3 times. There is only 6 or 7 characters. There is only about 4-6 coop levels and these 
 levels are linear and boring. This game rigthfully deserves this 2 and don't waste the 2 bucks 
 on it that i did. I should of rented mortal kombat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisgopher
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  At first I didn't know what to make of Legends. I was disappointed that it wasn't going to be a 
 traditional fighter, but then I thought that the 3rd person hacking adventure could be entertaining. 
 I neither got a good fighting game nor a memorable solo experience.
  
  Good:
  
  - Sticks to tradition in some aspects like weapons, classes, and characters.
  - If you like constant 
 killing, you can't go wrong with this. 
  - Graphics are acceptable for the Wii.
  - Controls are easy enough to pick up and quite simple. 
  - Boss battles are interesting.
  
 - The tag-team aspect is neat.
  - The attempt at puzzles was a nice touch
  - Ivy and Taki's boobs are as big as ever.
  - The use of the motion controls makes performing 
 combos a challenge, but sometimes too much of a challenge.
  
  
  Bad:
  
  - For a hack and slash game, the use of the Wii motion controls is a burden. After 2 or more hours 
 of play my wrist felt like it was about to explode.
  
  - Enemies get repetitive. You fight the same kind of minions forever.
  
  - Iska (the guy who 
 guides you through your quest) , will never shut up about his stupid sister. He just doesn't stop 
 talking! His constant chatter made me want to snap the disc in two.
  
  - The dialog. I don't mind reading in a video game, but this game makes you do too much of it. 
 You sit there thinking, "Enough with this I want to kill stuff!" The amount of reading you are 
 forced to do makes you not want to pay attention to the story.
  
  - The map is way to small for some of the bigger levels. 
  
  - The puzzles are simple but also 
 frustrating... you get too much of the same thing.
  
  - You unlock weapons, but at the character selection it doesn't tell you what they do!
  
  - 
 Multiplayer. The setup is 3rd person, and the game runs twice as slow. Don't even bother.
  
  - Repetitive to anguishing measures. 
  
  
  Neutral Points:
  
  - At first I thought 
 that only having a few number of characters was a cruel joke, but then I realized that this was 
 a SoulCalibur story from the beginning and not all of the characters have appeared yet (chronologically) . 
 
  
  - Each character's opening/closing statements are as cheesy and memorable as ever.
  
  
  All in all, it was an "experiment" as I would call it. If you are a fan of the series, 
 this might be an enjoyable change of pace for you. But if not, then I suggest playing Dynasty Warriors 
 instead. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonyex55
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 9, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is boring.... all you do is is hack at the same easy AI and run around. The level design 
 is plain and boring with no detail, which make it hard to like at the game. The voice acting is 
 also terrible and for some reason it was thought to be a good idea to have 2-d parts with sub titles 
 on the bottom... so not only was the story boring but you also had to read it and there was no way 
 of skipping thru it.
  I rated this a 2.0 and i still think i was being nice about it. The game is short, boring, and 
 awful to look at. Stay away from this game. Not even worth the rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benelsen18
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  it needs all the charecters from all soul calibur games. plus nintendo needs to upgrade the hole 
 things. Soul Calinur 2 for the nintendo gamecube was alot better than this. In this game you only 
 have a few playable charecters. But in Soul Calibur 2 you had a bunch of charecter plua you can 
 play as link. It is stuped that nintendo put in a split screen. It point less why do you need two 
 screens in multiplayer anywhy it just less fun. In Soul Calibur 2 its just on one screen and it 
 looked better. In this game they chould of upgraded the sword moves. It is stuped to move the remote 
 up and down and left to right. It should be were ever you move the remote the sword or lightsaber 
 moves to were ever you want it to move. It just more fun that why. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavidBeoulve
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  Beating on enemies in a fairly repetitive manner doesn't seem to bother my 8 year old daughter; 
 it does, however, bother her dad.
  
  Having mastered Soul Blade on the PSX and greatly disliked the Soul Calibur 2 & 3 "timed button 
 presses" change, I was looking forward to Legends, with fond memories of Soul Blade's RPG-lite 
 mode.
  
  That was not brought through here.
  
  The story takes an alternate route, and while the visuals are good, the voice acting and lines 
 are better left to children's TV shows.
  
  There are some really good games coming out now (and already out, such as Medal of Honor: Heroes 
 2 with 32 multiplayer support, Super Mario: Galaxies, Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles) and some 
 weird ones that just work (Ghost Squad, 4 player gun game for $30) . It's better time and money 
 spent than this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: george_is_link6
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting intentively for this game to come out ever since it was announced, and I was 
 not disappointed... at first. The game starts out very strong and gets you into it, but you'll 
 soon find yourself fighting the same enemies over and over again, and once you beat them you're 
 like 'yay, I just beat the crap out of 200 wolves, lets move through the invisible blue wall that 
 magically disappeared to beat 200 more'. What I'm saying is the game seems to get repetitive quick, 
 and though it starts solid, but doesn't hold up. I thank God though for the multiplayer. It is 
 a ton of fun playing with your brother or friend slicing the guts out of enemies, and it definitely 
 adds alot to the game. I recommend this game; however, if you're down to your last few dollars 
 and choosing between this game and another, i suggest buying the other game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuja_tribal
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 11, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Well what can I say, all I wanted from this was the 'tales aspect' so I'm reviewing from an extremely 
 bias point of veiw, but... sticks and stones. I got what I wanted, which was some genuine fleshed 
 out Soul caliber story line, Mister Irving and some serious button mashing, wii 'troller slashin 
 fun.
  
  The added fighting mode is a nice bonus and I've yet to check out all the extra stuff I missed 
 on my rush to get Lloyd.
  
  I highly recommend to namco veterens.
  
  Everyone else... give it a shot, who knows, you may be interested enough to look up the previous 
 soul calibers and tales games.
  
  This title could definately use a serious overhaul and I reckon it could be a hell of a lot of 
 fun, they simply just got lazy, and thats a real shame when that happens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sheepo100
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Good game, it was nice becuase of the mutiplayer plus many other things. This made the old soulcaliburs 
 look like crap. I think this is a great game, if you wanna get a good game this is the one to choose. 
 Nice combat fighting, and finally 3D. So I think this soulcalibur is much better. A very good game 
 and buy it, the single adn mutiplayer is great, they shoudl next have online gameplay, also more 
 characters. SO BUY IT NOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Great game play, Great game play, Great game play, Great game play, Great game play, Great game 
 play, Great game play, Great game play, Great game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mellolightnearl
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great experience for older teens on the wii, which in my opinion seems to be focused 
 on young child and family play. I reccomend this game for the wii but if you have an xbox 360 and 
 a wii, the recent and upcoming xbox360 games are probably a better choice. But if you have a wii 
 and the money, definitely buy it. Though it has few characters it has great co op play and with 
 its playstyle, is a good way to get out aggression. Thank you and play hard. 
  
  Sincerely,
  Your neighborhood death note fan: mellolightnearl 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
