-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Spider-Man: Web of Shadows
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/spidermanwebofshadows/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Compelling original story.
 Camera generally does a good job of framing the action.
 Some exciting chases and interesting boss battles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Constant use of motion controls gets tiring fast.
 Bland visuals and frequent frame-rate drops.
 Camera can be problematic.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 27, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.6, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 280 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Shaba Games
Genre: Action
Date: Oct 21, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The makings of a good Spider-Man game are here, but awkward controls prevent Web of Shadows from 
 reaching full swing. 

  There are some things to like in Spider-Man: Web of Shadows. It has a solid, original Spider-Man 
 story and the makings of some thrilling superhero action. Unfortunately, the game's bland visuals 
 and overreliance on motion controls prevent it from making your spider sense tingle as much as 
 you might hope.  

  The compelling introduction throws you right into the midst of a crisis. The forces of SHIELD have 
 occupied New York and are fighting a losing battle against a massive symbiote invasion. Amid the 
 chaos, Spider-Man is desperate to find Mary Jane. After a quick tutorial that has you swinging 
 across the city pummeling symbiotes, you encounter MJ, and it's clear that all is not well between 
 Peter and her. As she chastises him for using his black symbiote suit, a mysterious figure emerges 
 from a nearby explosion and extends its symbiotic tendrils to envelop Spider-Man, and then everything 
 goes dark. Then the game flashes back to four days prior, when Venom assaulted Spider-Man and part 
 of the symbiote that gives Venom his power attached itself to our hero, giving him greater, more 
 destructive strength that lets you pick up cars and hurl them at your adversary. With Venom defeated, 
 everything seems normal again in New York, and Spidey has more run-of-the-mill problems to deal 
 with, like full-scale gang wars. But we know the crisis that looms on the horizon. It's a great 
 setup that pulls you in and makes you eager to keep playing to find out how things get so bad and 
 how it all ends.  

           Cars make great weapons when you're wearing the black suit.      

  Things slow down 
 a bit at this point as Luke Cage takes Spider-Man under his wing to show him some moves that will 
 come in handy when dealing with those gangs and everything else Spidey will face. It's here that 
 the game's problems first become apparent. The most vital move you learn is the webstrike, an attack 
 that has you rapidly zip up to an enemy and then kick off of him into the air, from where you can 
 webstrike another opponent, chaining together a series of attacks. You perform webstrikes by shaking 
 the remote to the side, an action that quickly becomes tiresome as you repeat it over and over 
 again in combat. Also frustrating is that shaking the nunchuk to the side has you changing between 
 the red and black suits, while shaking it up or down has you targeting an enemy, and in the flurry 
 of battle it's very easy to do one of those actions when you meant to do the other. All of the 
 repetitive motions and imprecise controls involved in combat hamper the action considerably, and 
 the fact that your movements bear no analogous connection to Spidey's actions makes the widespread 
 implementation of motion controls seem pointless.  

  Swinging and zipping your way across Manhattan is easy and can be fun for a while, though it, too, 
 is done by shaking the remote and soon gets old. Also, while Spidey leaps, soars, and dives through 
 the air with a preternatural grace, frequent drops in the frame rate make the animation less than 
 graceful, and the gray, featureless city won't compel you to do any leisurely sight-swinging. Still, 
 a few of the game's more exciting moments come in the form of fast-paced chases across much of 
 the city, which put the swinging mechanic to good use.  

  While Treyarch's movie-based Spider-Man games tried to shoehorn a lot of content into the game 
 using side missions that made much of the action seem peripheral, here, everything ties in to the 
 game's excellent story, resulting in a cohesive, compelling experience from start to finish. As 
 in past games, you'll swing around the city to take on various missions, which are given here by 
 a selection of characters from the Marvel universe. Whether you deal primarily with heroes or with 
 villains depends on some choices you make. From time to time, you'll have to decide whether to 
 do the moral thing or to give in to the temptations of Peter's dark side. These choices don't have 
 much impact, though, because the missions you undertake are largely the same regardless of whom 
 you're undertaking them for, though there are a few different endings to the game that vary based 
 on whether you're more aligned with the red suit or with the black.  

  There's a good variety to the missions and to the enemies you fight. You'll take on easily dispatched 
 thugs, hulking mechs, and enemies who fly around on Green Goblin-esque gliders. Combat against 
 airborne enemies is especially thrilling, because the camera generally does a terrific job of circling 
 around to stay focused on the action, creating a dizzying sense of altitude as you see the city 
 spinning below. There are also a number of memorable boss battles, including a fight with Vulture 
 that has you swinging from flying enemy to flying enemy to reach him, and a knock-down, drag-out 
 brawl against Wolverine, who doubts your identity and so will periodically quiz you on obscure 
 bits of Spider-Man lore to determine if you're the real Peter Parker, which is a nice bit of fan 
 service for hardcore Spider-Man fans.  

           Best not to look down while fighting Vulture.      

   

  It's in the game's final 
 act, though -- when New York is once again the symbiote-infested, SHIELD-occupied city glimpsed in 
 the game's introduction -- that the missions become outstanding. Pockets of humans need to be rescued 
 from buildings and rooftops throughout the city, and there's a real sense of desperation as you 
 accompany SHIELD APCs and hovercraft and fight to protect the civilians from oncoming swarms of 
 symbiotes that you can see approaching even through walls, thanks to your handy spider sense. It's 
 a shame, though, that the enjoyment you may have found in all this conceptually cool action is 
 severely lessened by the constant wrist-waggling you'll be doing.  

  Visually, the game is disappointing. The bland, monochromatic city is severely lacking in detail 
 and activity, and while character models look pretty good, you'll often see people clip into buildings 
 and other objects. And as previously mentioned, the frame rate frequently drops severely, making 
 Spider-Man's otherwise graceful moves a lot less impressive. Many of the cutscenes were rendered 
 using another version of the game and have a grainy look to them that lessens their impact a bit. 
 The sound is decent, with some strong performances from the voice cast. Spider-Man delivers his 
 so-bad-they're-funny (sometimes) one-liners with great geeky charm, while also giving a sense of 
 the inner conflict he's experiencing in his struggle with the black suit. The music is sweeping 
 and cinematic, but the best accompaniment to Spidey's swinging is the whistling of the wind you 
 hear when there's no music at all. The sound also has its technical issues, though; music and dialogue 
 will frequently cut out for a moment, and dialogue during cutscenes occasionally gets out of sync 
 with the action. And oddly, all the civilians you pass on the street are as silent as mimes as 
 they make a big show of cheering for you or scrambling from you in terror.  

  Fans of the wallcrawler may find that it's worth putting up with the considerable flaws and frustrations 
 in Web of Shadows just to experience its original story and the occasionally thrilling action. 
 But if you don't feel a particular attachment to the character, it's not worth it. In a way, the 
 game's better aspects only serve to make its flaws all the more disappointing. This really should 
 have been an exciting, high-flying adventure, but the awkward controls keep this Spider-Man from 
 doing whatever a spider can.  

    Editor's Note: This review previously contained incorrect information about the ability to call 
 upon an ally for support. This feature is absent from the Wii version. GameSpot regrets the error. 
       
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: daspook19
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Activision should send everyone that bought this game on Wii a check for at least half the cost 
 of the game. Game play is fine when it works, the combat system is OK, but it locks up all the 
 time. I've fallen through the street to an underworld coding abyss that has no escape, I've had 
 countless complete freezes, and I haven't even mentioned how many times I've had to redo a mission 
 because I get stuck on some building corner that you can't escape from. 
  
  What saves this game is a good story and lots of cameos. If any of the previous Spiderman games 
 had been this haphazardly rushed to market, they'd be totally worthless. This game could have been 
 a great game, instead it's fun until it annoys you. 
  
  I can't remember the last time I paid full price for a game with this many glitches. I'll definitely 
 think twice the next time I pick up a game for Wii that says "Activision" on it. They should be 
 ashamed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gashoe13
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 6, 2009 6:39 am PT
Review:  The Spider-man series has puzlled me. There will be some good, then bad, then good, then slowly 
 dropping ointo mediocre. I really liked spidey 2 on xbox. Web of shadows has a unique story, some 
 fantastic bosses, a great-looking but flawed combat system, and some wacky voice acting. 
  The intro looks awesome. The Moonlight Sonata playing while Spidey walks forlornly through the 
 chaos, before going off and pulling off moves that would've steamrolled olympic gymnasts. The beginning 
 is quite cinematic, and you learn all the mechanics (except for the Web strike) . 
  After a while, we learn some combat tactics from Luke Cage, a big burly guy with a pair of fists 
 to match. 
  The combat in general looks pretty cool, but there are 3 obvious problems:
  1: It looks stylish, but most moves are only useful on one guy at a time. This gets very annoying 
 in the later levels.
  2: The Web strike immediately exploits the combat system.
  3: Some moves are too useful and you find yourself using them at almost every given situation.
 
  Even with its problems, the combat system still manages to be pretty diverse and damn satisfying, 
 like in DMC3. BUt, giving it the same status as DMC3 would be giving it too much credit.
  The Web strike is an attack where spidey whips out a web, and pulls himself towards an enemy, and 
 smashes him, before using the momentum to propel himself back into the air, which can be linked 
 with more web strikes. And each one is pulled off in 2 seconds. Sounds cool? Well, it is. But the 
 game doesn't come close to explaining it well enough. I only understood it after a while of practice. 
 YOu swing the wiimote (or Triangle, or Y) and then, AFTER making contact for half a second, then 
 you swing again. Dang.
  The game's shining star are the bosses. So maybe black cat isn't anything to go on about, and the 
 button pressing sequences are downright terrible on the Wii (Due to very poor motion detecting) . 
 But, Vulture is a fantastic boss, as is Wolverine (both times) . Venom is difficult but satisfying, 
 and Electro provides a thrilling rush through the city jampacked with Webstrikes, punches, and 
 electric shock therapy. 
  HOwever, the button pressing sequences I must rave about. They are TERRIBLE. The Detection sucks. 
 Sometimes, you need to swing downwards, and you will, but they won't detect it. This made the Vulture 
 Button pressing virtually impossible. In order to do it, you need to hold the Wiimote upright, 
 and jerk it in the exact way the game tells you to. This makes the second time against Wolvie especially 
 annoying.
  IF it sounds like I'm hating the game, I don't. But, here's a tip: The Dark path is easier. The 
 Red path is fraught with saving civilians.
  Saving civilians is actually ok, but when it happens every 4 minutes or so, it gets annoying. In 
 Ultimate Spiderman, you save a civilian every 20 or so minutes. This isn't the case here.
  Graphics: Bland, but Ok. 7/10
  Gameplay: Flashy. Fast. Cool. 8.4/10
  Story: 8.7/10
  Bosses: 
 9.2/10
  Fun: 6/10
  Overall: 7/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lil_Wii_MVP_13
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 29, 2009 6:31 pm PT
Review:  With a GREAT STORY, UNIQUE COMBAT MODE, AWESOME VISUALS (or whatever) , and many more WILD things 
 MVP's like me like, Spider-Man WOS is what it is... THE BEST IN SERIES!!! This game's story just 
 pulls you in and never let's you go.... that is.... after a REALLY GOOD ENDING that..... can't.. 
 tell you that, but it also has lots of great boss fights like.... can't tell ya' that, either.. 
 JUST GET THE GAME!! The combat system is only one of the things that makes the game's boss fights 
 interesting and fun. You'll soon find yourself looking like a 5 year old swinging the Wii remote 
 like it's a web shooter or... something... yeah. Yeah, the PICTURE'S KINDA GOOD FOR A WII GAME 
 and the CAMERA'S THE BEST YET! Now! Why'd I give it a B? Well, the game is A LITTLE TOO EASY.. 
 A LITTLE too easy to be a T game, for me. Maybe an E10 rating for the difficulty. The game also 
 kinda... if you're like me.... doesn't have that one part in it that ya' just can't pass. Well, 
 that's it.. WAIT!! Yeah, the game sort of uses like what 10 "bad words you just shouldn't say little 
 Tommy" so don't get it if your parents'll be watching ya' 24/7. Well, hope ya' like it WHEN ya' 
 buy it... right? KEEP LIVIN' LIVE N' LOUD!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiifanaticnumbe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Ok I am am going to give you the good and bad qualities of the game in my opinion. The good: Fun 
 story, Spider-man's jokes are corny, yet you can't help but laugh at them, Venom looks badder then 
 ever, you can choose between red or symbiot suit, and finally The control schme was a very interesting 
 idea. The bad: Graphics are not as good as they should be, controls can get a little wacky from 
 time to time, camera can be a bit of a problem, the enemies and bosses seen to be a little over 
 powered, and the sensors doesn't always pick up your movements. 
  
  Now for the review. Spiderman Web of Shadows puts you as spiderman with the normal red and blue 
 suit or the symbiot black suit. In the very beginning of the game you'll see spiderman walking 
 on top of a building with New York in chaos. Helicopters falling from the sky, military officers 
 getting attacked by the symbiots, a lot of places on fire. After doing your mission in that level 
 spiderman will talk about how it all happened and you'll be sent to the very beginning to see how 
 this invasion begun. I think the story is really cool and it was done really good. The game also 
 makes cutscenes fun and really cool to do. During boss battles you will need to follow the on screen 
 movements to finish off the battle. It's really cool to see spiderman dodge a bunch razor sharp 
 blades to to slam the Vulture into the ground from 100 feet above. 
  
  However, there was a lot of times when my controls weren't getting picked up by the sensor bar, 
 it could be my wiimote or sensor bar, but it got to the point that i got pissed. Spiderman has 
 a lot of missions and I think they kinda overpowered the villains. Like theres a giant robot you 
 need to take down, but all your moves are powerless against it, the only way to knock it down is 
 by throwing a car at it. Now your thinking oh that's easy, but the fact is this guy throws you 
 waves after waves of missiles making it hard grab a car. Also when your fighting that guy theres 
 not a car for miles! If you do manage to hit the guy with the car you need to press B and follow 
 the instructions. i wiimote never registers the finishing blow so I can never take him down! Also 
 the bosses can take a while to take down, the fact that there health bar is 5 times bigger then 
 yours and their punches send you realing across the arena, and your punches take about a milimeter 
 of their health, its still fun XD 
  
  I suggest you rent it, or if you think you can handle it buy it. I bought and I know when Im done 
 with it Im gona make a new file and do it again... I really hope this helps you well thanks for 
 reading!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullandbones91
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is just so evil. It's such a good game and they had it right. But it feels so empty. 
 I liked it but the inability to continue free roaming after you beat the game kind of sucked. This 
 game could not measure up to the other titles out there. It had good game play and good graphics 
 but the cut scenes kind of looked like an old movie. It's hard to explain this game. I recommend 
 just renting it because it's so much fun, but to tell you the whole truth you could find a way 
 better way to spend your fifty bucks. I recommend skate it for WII. it's game play is a lot better. 
 The graphics are better. But it falls behind on the story. The story of spiderman web of shadows 
 was superb, but When I beat it I had an empty feeling in me that wouldn't go away as long as I 
 played it. So I intend to immediately dispose of it. I have no room for games like this on my shelf 
 of awesomeness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mik91
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  This is a AWESOME game it is great the controls maybe diffcult but its still a game that will be 
 greatly remembered by lots of people also i would rather play this on wii then on 360 for the fact 
 its a bit more simpler then 360 or ps3 since there are less buttons to use.
  The game has great graphics and is alot better then the Ps2 and PSP version of it.
  if you really 
 want this game get it for wii, xbox 360, or PS3 not for the other systems
  I can be reached at darkstar91@ymail. com if you want any advice about certin games, like this one 
 or harvest moon ToT quantum of solace, my sims , and some others, dont worry im a good guy to talk 
 to and also great for giving advice so email me if you need help but if i dont know what to do 
 ill still give you info on places you can go to, to get help. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gatleos
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 21, 2009 1:15 pm PT
Review:  After the last abysmal Spider-Man game, I was really hoping for something... well, better. And 
 that's what we all got! The trouble with that is, erm... lets see... Oh, here it is! I gave Spider-Man 
 3... a 4.5. So as you can see, me saying something is better than that load of malarkey REALLY 
 isn't saying much. Fortunately, Spider-Man: Web of Shadows (WoS) does make a passing grade. But 
 just barely!!!
  
  Alright, here I go. First of all, the storyline in WoS is a huge breath of fresh air after the 
 previous 3 movie licenses. In this installment, V-
  
  ************WARNING SPOILERS!!!!!************
  
  ... Erm, anyway, as I was saying... In this 
 installment, we see a villain that hasn't yet been seen in any Spider-Man game or movie to date!! 
 Just kidding, it's Venom. Anyway, the game starts out normally enough, you know... hundreds of 
 armored S. W. A. T. teams fighting a vicious army of symbiotes and the city is in flames... Spider-Man 
 walking slowly toward the edge of a building with the Ask ThatGuy classical theme in the background 
 (?) . Wasn't that song in Earthworm Jim 2 also? Whatever, I'm rambling.
  
  So anyway, the first part of the game is a flashback to before all this happened. The first thing 
 you'll notice in the opening cutscene is that Peter Parker, despite being a super hero, has the 
 WIMPIEST voice EVER. I laughed out loud the first time I heard it. As the game progresses, Venom 
 weaves a Web of Shadows (TM) through the city and infects the entire population with his virus! 
 Also, you get attacked by Wolverine (sweet) , make fat jokes about Kingpin (hilarious) , find out 
 Wolverine has a MySpace page (even more hilarious) , and interact with a ton of Marvel characters. 
 I really must commend this game for FINALLY recognizing that Spider-Man is part of the Marvel universe 
 and not just a lame movie license.
  
  So overall, the story, while not a masterpiece, is somewhat engaging and really fun to play through. 
 Another way that WoS tops Spider-Man 3 (I will henceforth refer to it as Previous Suckage) is in 
 its controls. Don't get me wrong, the Wii-mote wagglin' controls in this game compel me to throw 
 a chair through a window sometimes. But compared to those of Previous Suckage, they are vastly 
 improved. Overall, though, they are extremely frustrating at times. To switch between your normal 
 and ultra-badass black suits, you flick the Nunchuck to the side. This... this can be a problem. 
 I constantly find myself accidentally switching suits. And since certain moves are exclusive to 
 each suit, this can be quite a big problem.
  
  Also, to swing from a web, you flick the Wii-mote down. This isn't much of a problem until you 
 find that an aerial web-grappling attack that slingshots you toward an enemy requires you to flick 
 the remote to the SIDE. So good luck swinging away from a group of enemies! You will constantly 
 be slamming yourself into the very enemies you are trying to get away from.
  
  There are a number of new control and gameplay features besides these, however. One of them is 
 the brand-new combat. While most of the controls are horrendous individually, the combat comes 
 together quite nicely. I must once again commend this game (not its creators, the game!!) for an 
 experience exponentially greater than Previous Suckage. You can now fight enemies on ground, walls, 
 and in the air! Another one of the new features is the ability to make choices during the game 
 that affect the plot. Well, honestly, they don't. So far, I haven't seen any sort of deviation 
 in gameplay other than my red/black meter changing. But this meter is so small that a single choice 
 in the story takes it all the way from one side to the other!! What?! What's the point of having 
 a meter if every choice you make maxes it out one way?!?
  
  The game's presentation is actually fairly nice. Once again, it surpasses Previous Suckage in every 
 plausible way by a considerable margin. After you get used to Spidey's I-just-got-kicked-in-the-balls 
 voice, you'll enjoy most of the dialogue and cutscenes in the game. Heh... fat jokes. Yep, it was... 
 WAIT A SECOND!!! I almost forgot! Those cutscenes!! Every single freakin cutscene in this game 
 looks like crap! The graphics itself is good, but all of the cutscenes are pixelated like hell! 
 That brings down the presentation considerably.
  
  In conclusion, this is the game for you if:
  
  a) You really liked the previous Spider-Man 
 games
  
  b) You want to play a game better than Previous Suckage
  
  c) You like Wolverine and fat jokes
  
  Well, if you fit into any of those categories, you should 
 at least give WoS a try. Actually, those guidelines set the standards pretty low. Previous Suckage 
 sucked, and everybody loves Wolverine and fat jokes. Oh well. Overall, Spider-Man: Web of Shadows 
 is a mildly enjoyable SM game that will tide fans over 'till the next one. But really, it's not 
 particularly great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostofluigi
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  The Spider Man franchise has taken a break from the movie games and come up with an RPG and they 
 have pulled it off nicely.
  
  Visuals/Graphics:
  I don't know or care what Gamespot thinks. I thought the visuals were awesome and detailed the 
 environment extremely well. The characters stand out perfectly.
  
  Storyline:
  If this isn't a good storyline, I don't know what is. A choice between good or evil planning out 
 your path as you walk along it. As Mary Poppins would sayPractically Perfect in every Way." 
 
  
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay is fun with hard bosses and cool attacks but it gets old after a while with the repetitive 
 punching and kicking. Camera is ok.
  
  Controls:
  No, No and double no. The controls are the worst part of the game. Sometimes the controls are unresponsive 
 or they do something completely diffrent from what I ask it to do. Extremely Frustrating! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Predator_286
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Spider-man WOS is the single best spider man game (for now at least) . It has just about everything, 
 great storyline, awesome graphics, and sweet combat. What I like the most is what they did with 
 the swing mechanic. There are certain times when you're just gonna wanna swing around on the rooftops. 
 Mainly what it's about is that Venom has infected the people of New York and transform them into 
 symbiotes including you. When in the black suit you have a different fighting style. 
  
  Your more like a combo of hulk and spider man a bunch of ground slams, throwing cars, the only 
 different thing is that later on in the game you can have these tentacle things come out and beat 
 the crap out of a bunch of guys. The red suit relys more on agility and web attacks. You'll want 
 to be using the red suit a little more in the beginning since you won't really need the black one 
 just for gangs and tech dudes. But when NY starts to get infected you'll find your self fighting 
 a bunch of symbiotes in the street with the black suit and believe me you'll be doing alot since 
 the symbiotes will be pretty much every where on the streets.
  
  You'll also have oppurtunities to be able to either choose to go good or bad when you beat a boss 
 or come with an important decission which will effect the games ending. The controls can get a 
 little frustrating since when you wanna web strike you might end up swinging instead. The remote 
 swinging sequences are a bit akward to but you eventually get it. Anyway spider man WOS is one 
 of the best games to date.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PBRulez
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 1, 2008 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man: Web of Shadows hits you with an interesting (although often used) concept: you play 
 as a hero in a zombie invasion of a city. That's the bottom line, more or less. The hero, Spider-Man, 
 has been 'corrupted', and must struggle to make good or bad choices. This leads to the core concept 
 of the game that separates it from it's predecessors: Throughout the more or less linear story, 
 you will be presented with the option of making the moral or rash choice. These choices affect 
 your relations with the heroes and villains around you, and supposedly affect your 'alignment' 
 meter (although, having beaten the game, I still don't know what that is) . These choices are often 
 very interesting, and certainly the best aspect of the game, as they will sometimes make you pause 
 to consider what to do. They rarely actually affect anything, but you will find them (if nothing 
 else) an intriguing part of the game.
  
  Sadly, it's all downhill from there. The story features Spider Man trying to save the civilians 
 from Symbiotes, aliens that transform the people they consume into hate driven, super powered monsters, 
 while battling the head Symbiote, fan favorite Venom. If minus the last bit it sounds familiar, 
 that's because it's the plot of at least a couple of dozen zombie movies. The writing's handled 
 well enough, and sometimes even enters the zone of quite good, but it's ultimately forgettable.
 
  
  A good way through the game, you'll be presented with the ruined New York infested with the symbiotes. 
 The atmosphere is initially creepy, and it increases as you encounter civilians desperately seeking 
 to escape being consumed. Ultimately, however, it loses it's edge, and becomes just another sandbox 
 city. The missions/side missions feature next to zero variety, and will most always have you either 
 fighting so many enemies or protecting things.
  
  If the gameplay was extraordinarily fun, all of the above could be forgiven, but it's not quite 
 there. Combat mixes things up a little, but rarely deviates from a straightforward strategy. That 
 is to say, almost every enemy in the game can be handled with the Web Strike move and its continuations. 
 The actual Wii remote controls are attrocious. In a huge step back from Spider-Man 3 (who's controls 
 were then, at best, 'sort of fun') the controls make this Wii Spidey entry unbearable. Swinging 
 and attacking are controlled by similar motions; so are alternating suits and locking onto enemies, 
 both essential to the game. The controls will occasionally make the game more difficult than it 
 ought to be.
  
  While far from terrible, Web of Shadows is a disappointment after Spider-Man 3. The story is enjoyable 
 for any comic book fan, but only worth a rental. I cannot claim to have played the X Box 360/PS3 
 versions of the game, but for the controls alone, I would recommend avoiding the Wii version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GHWTmonster
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay is pretty repetitive. The graphics are pretty nice, but before night the graphics get 
 really weird. Almost all of spiderman's moves are controlled by the nunchuck or the wiimote. It 
 has awesome features like different suits, and buying moves w/ points. Which is crazy. You can 
 buy moves you are familiar with, and forget the complicated ones. The storyline is pretty nice, 
 but can often be hard to follow. You get random interactive cutscenes during the game in which 
 you have to do a series of actions to predict the outcome of the situation. These are a little 
 bit too sensitive. I often fail them and even if you don't, you only get a little bit of reward. 
 All in all it's a good game, but like I said rent it or try it before you buy it. It's also a great 
 addition to the spider-man series bringing in new ideas and old characters from comic books. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AweWiiGamer1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  Spider-Man: Web of Shadows takes the premise of Spider-Man 3, and makes a game of Spidey at his 
 best. As a longtime avid Marvel Comics and Spider-Man fan, I am happy to report that Web of Shadows 
 is an action-packed and consistently fresh game, bringing all the qurkiness of the Steve Ditko 
 Spider-Man comics, and the hard edged action of the John Romita issues.
  
  The story of Web of Shadows has all the darkly toned and thoughtful physcology of Peter Parker 
 from the John Romita issues of Spider-Man, mixing with the qurkiness and footloose fancy-free imagination 
 of the Steve Ditko issues. The story is about when Spider-Man's hometown: New York City is being 
 threatned by the deadly symboite. Venom has returned, and learnt that he can clone himself with 
 the symbiote, and pods and hives begin spreading about all over the city, forming Venom's army. 
 Soon, New York's government force: S. H. I. E. L. D ward off the city from it spreading to anywhere 
 else. It is up to Spider-Man to determine his fate as dark Spider-Man or good Spider-Man, and choose 
 how far he will go to save New York. The story of Web of Shadows has the qurkiness of the Ditko 
 stories, as each of the action contains the energy and slapstick humor of Spidey, and the seriousness 
 of the Romita issues, such as when Wolverine gets infected with the symboite, and stabs himself 
 to get rid of it. The story in Web of Shadows is dark, thoughtful, and sets the structure of the 
 game nice and smoothly.
  
  The combat controls in Web of Shadows is what makes the game endlessly fun. You press the B button 
 the Wii Remote to create a normal attack, and press the Z and C button to make it more powerful. 
 You wave the Wii Remote in the air to create a Web Strike attack whilst your in the air. The combat 
 in Web of Shadows requires strategy that makes the combat deep, and you truly feel like comic Spider-Man 
 action. They are visually outstanding, and genuinely fun to create.
  
  The variety of Marvel characters like Wolverine from X-men and Nick Cage, make nice additions to 
 the storyline, and the fan service in Web of Shadows is strong.
  
  Despite what a fun game Web of Shadows is, it does suffer from a sizeable amount of flaws which 
 do prevent it from the Spidey classic it should of have been. The motion sensitivity in the controls 
 of Web of Shadows range from great, to unresponsive and generally annoying to use. The voice acting 
 in Web of Shadows is grating, and lacks the depth of the characters that exists in the comic books. 
 Web of Shadows tries to make itself camp and tries to recapture the humor of the Spiderman show, 
 but fails and somehow seems forced. Graphically, Web of Shadows lacks texture and detail, and really 
 lacks the sense of atmosphere that is seen in Spidey.
  
  Overall, Web of Shadows is the best Spiderman game yet, and as a harcore Spidey and Marvel fan, 
 I was hugely satisfied. Despite clunks with graphics, audio quality and controls, Web of Shadows 
 contains expert clipping of the action, and the darkness we have come to expect from Spidey.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: elozl
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Of course this is no GTA, this is a superheroe game that portraits well the comic book, and its 
 looking pretty nice, i like this combat stile, i have been playing this game since yesterday and 
 all day today for 6 straight hours and let me tell you that is one of the best or the best (at 
 least for me) spiderman games ever!
  it has decent graphics, nice cinematics and good action but the best of all is the story, it even 
 has some comic book questions in game lol, at least when you first fight wolverine because he thinks 
 you are a bad guy by smelling the symbiot suit you once again get during a rather routine battle 
 with venom, the symbiote we all know and love fractures and part of it leaps to Spiderman, once 
 again endowing him with the black suit and all the strenght and evilness that comes on the same 
 package... well i wont spoil the fun but for what i have played i can give this game a good 9.0 
 because im a fan of these superheores but a more realistic score should be an 8.6
  So if you are waiting for a good game this season dont wait any longer because this will keep you 
 entertained and excercised (lol wiimote arm actions) fighting for good or even evil its your choice!
 
  
  Good day! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
