-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Spider-Man: Friend or Foe
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/spidermanfriendorfoe/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Action is stylish, easy to pick up.
 Great cast of characters supported by some solid voice acting.
 Doesn't take itself so seriously.
 Lets you play as some of Spidey's greatest enemies.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not much enemy variety.
 Sidekicks not as much fun to play as Spidey.
 Incredibly easy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  4, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.2, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 167 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Next Level Games
Genre: Action
Date: Oct 2, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Some flashy action, a playful sense of humor, and a clean visual style bring this otherwise straightforward 
 beat-'em-up to life. 

  Although the Spider-Man movies have been credited with helping comic-book movies mature and take 
 a more sophisticated turn, the problem with all of these complex, serious heroes and villains is, 
 well, that they're all so complex and serious. They lose sight of the fact that Spider-Man is far 
 more entertaining when he's wheelin' free and crackin' wise rather than stressing out about the 
 whole "with great power" thing and generally being riddled with angst. The webslinger is in loose, 
 smart-aleck form in Spider-Man: Friend or Foe, a beat-'em-up that doesn't get bogged down in character 
 development. Instead, the game puts the focus on the kind of combat that's simple but showy, with 
 an art style that reminds you that comic books shouldn't necessarily be so somber.  

           The team-up premise of Friend or Foe feels like it was ripped straight from the pages 
 of What If?      

  The big concept twist that Friend or Foe offers up revolves around Spider-Man teaming up with some 
 of his most memorable foes. In a reference to Venom's origin story from Spider-Man 3, some unknown 
 mastermind is using shards from the meteor that spawned the symbiotic suit to brainwash villains 
 such as Doc Ock and the Green Goblin to do his bidding, as well as to power an army of holographic 
 monsters called phantoms. With the help of S. H. I. E. L. D. director Nick Fury, you trot the globe, 
 recover the shards, and free the brainwashed villains, which turns enemies into allies. As thin 
 as the premise is, the game's jokey, playful tone makes it seem less far-fetched, and it ultimately 
 serves its purpose of letting you fight alongside some of Spidey's greatest villains, a concept 
 that manages to stay novel throughout. You'll also team up with other heroes along the way, including 
 Spidey regulars such as Prowler, Black Cat, and Silver Sable, as well as b-team favorites such 
 as Iron Fist and Blade. A big part of what carries the humor in Friend or Foe is the quality of 
 the voice work, which is consistently great.  

  The basic structure of Friend or Foe isn't terribly interesting by itself. You'll travel to some 
 exotic location, such as Tokyo, Transylvania, or Nepal, where you'll beat the holographic snot 
 out of the phantoms before facing off with a brainwashed villain. The phantoms come in just a few 
 different varieties, and though they get stronger over time and change appearance between locations, 
 the same tactics seem to work pretty well from start to finish. Although the boss fights are presented 
 differently, they all rely on the same basic strategy of throwing objects at the villains from 
 afar. They can occasionally be a little time-consuming, but they're never particularly challenging. 

  There's really not much else to the game beyond the fighting, either. There's a little bit of exploration, 
 in that there are DNA samples and secret arenas scattered throughout the game, but more often than 
 not you'll just stumble over them in the course of playing the game. Spidey can double-jump and 
 use his webbing to swing over small gaps, but platforming is minimal. When you do die, be it at 
 the hands of an enemy or from falling off a platform, the only penalty is that you'll lose a couple 
 of tech tokens, a type of in-game currency that falls out of defeated enemies and smashed objects. 
 You use the tech tokens to upgrade the abilities of Spider-Man and friends.  

  It's pretty much all fighting, all the time, against the same handful of enemies, with no consequences 
 for dying. The whole thing can be wrapped up with a bow in less than six hours. So what makes the 
 action in Friend or Foe interesting? A lot of it rests on the combat, which manages to be both 
 accessible and somewhat dynamic. There's a single attack button that you can use to tap out some 
 simple combos, but it's Spider-Man's web-based abilities that bring a lot of panache to the game. 
 The webslinging abilities let him grab enemies from afar and launch them into one another, into 
 the ground, or right off the edge of a platform.  

  You'll earn additional web talents over time, including the ability to shoot projectiles and wrap 
 enemies up, but your starting abilities seem to be the most useful. They're also the most visually 
 interesting, though admittedly some of the actions look more exciting than they might otherwise 
 due to exaggerated physics that cause everyone to linger in the air before gravity pulls them back 
 down. It's very easy to string these moves together, and even though it's not much of a challenge, 
 fending off a dozen enemies at once with a constant flurry of attacks can be pretty satisfying. 

  It can be a real kick in the pants to fight alongside some of Spider-Man's greatest villains as 
 well, and you can switch back and forth on the fly between controlling Spidey and his sidekick. 
 When controlled by the artificial intelligence, your sidekick can take care of itself pretty well. 
 As awesome as it might sound to finally get to play as these villains, the sidekicks simply don't 
 have as many abilities as Spidey, which makes them inherently less interesting. This ends up limiting 
 the appeal of the game's two-player support, although it's consequently less disappointing that 
 there's no online play.  

           What it lacks in challenge, it makes up for with style.      

  The experience of playing 
 Spider-Man: Friend or Foe on the Xbox 360, PC, and Wii was pretty consistent across platforms, 
 though there were some predictable discrepancies. The PC version demands a good gamepad, and we 
 found that the game provided seamless support for the Xbox 360 controller. The game plays it pretty 
 safe on the Wii, in that it relies on motion controls only for secondary stuff such as switching 
 characters and performing grab modifiers. All three versions feature the same clean art style, 
 which isn't technically demanding, but it looks sharp. The environments favor clean textures over 
 complex geometry, and each location features a distinct look while keeping with the overall cartoony 
 feel. The character models are nicely embellished, and some of the animations -- Spider-Man's in 
 particular -- look terrific. The PC and Xbox 360 versions look pretty comparable, though on the Wii 
 there's some pretty jagged edges, some minor frame-rate issues, and a little fuzziness that diminishes 
 the look of the game, if only somewhat. It seems worth noting that the achievements in the Xbox 
 360 version are pretty fabulously easy, and they require only a little extra effort beyond finishing 
 the game to earn the full 1000 points.  

  The low level of challenge, the cartoon-inspired look, and a tone that favors humor over pathos 
 certainly make it seem as if Spider-Man: Friend or Foe was designed with a younger, less sophisticated 
 audience in mind, but for what it is, this is a well-crafted game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 7, 2009 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Foe. Definitely foe. If you were to see this game strutting cockily down the street, you'd rugby 
 tackle it in the midriff and TAKE IT DOWN! For it is undoubtedly the enemy and has no reason to 
 be cocky. No reason at all. Actually that's not quite true - it sounds all right, with some vaguely 
 amusing vocal touches brightening things up. But while the initial idea of partnering Spider-Man 
 with a galaxy of villains to fight a new evil is a good one, the game could really be about flowerpot 
 men swatting away greenflies all day long. It really is that bland.
  
  As usual, there's a new evil mastermind on the loose with designs on world domination but the hook 
 this time is that fragments of a meteorite are being used to brainwash supercrooks. It's your job 
 to turn them to your cause. 
  
  But after barely more than a couple of seconds' play, you'll have formed a good idea of what to 
 expect: turgid button mashing primarily, with a bit of jumping around. And there are lots of bridges 
 too - presumably so that your partner can be put to work activating switches rather than getting 
 in your way.
  
  Unbreakable
  Not that throwing your characters in harm's way is especially dangerous, as you can't die. That's 
 right - you play a game which pits you against a number of super-powerful, arachnophobic nutcases, 
 bent on squishing you into the ground, and yet the worst that'll happen to you is you lose a few 
 of the tokens you collect through the game as you get brought straight back to life. 
  
  Those tokens are supposed to be traded for upgrades to your characters' powers once you get back 
 aboard your helicarrier HQ - but when you can smash your way through entire levels without stabbing 
 anything other than A (the common-or-garden punch) , what's the point? The same can be said of the 
 levels. You're meant to be travelling the world to rid it of danger, visiting such exotic locations 
 as Tokyo and Nepal, and yet the only indication of your location is some token foreign wording 
 on those bloomin' bridges.
  
  If you can believe it, this is possibly even worse than the diabolical Spider-Man 3. It's time 
 someone cut the beleaguered crime-fighter some slack.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Negative7000
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 3, 2009 11:56 am PT
Review:  This game is harder to describe than most. I'll divide it into pro's and con's to make it more 
 simple.
  
  Pro's:
  Has a large and solid character roster that expands as you progress into the game.
  Spider-Man 
 has many fun combos that are simple and easy to use.
  Each area that you go to looks unique and has different enemies.
  The graphics are neat looking 
 and never get way over-exaggerated.
  The bosses are fun to beat and the strategies to defeat them are always different from others.
 
  
  Con's:
  The dialogue is funny for a while but it gets annoying.
  I think it is rather lazy to use symbiotes for enemies, even if it is only for one or two areas.
 
  Other than Spider-Man, the characters you play as do not have any special moves and thus are sometimes 
 don't really make you want to use them.
  The game's difficulty is way to low and can be beaten very quickly.
  
  This game is overall 
 okay, but would be a lot better as a rental. 7/10, for a fun yet repetitive game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamemanyeah
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  If you launch the latest Spider-Man video game expecting a comic book-inspired brawler for younger 
 players, you won't be disappointed with this superhero adventure. 
  
  
  "Spider-Man: Friend or Foe" is an enjoyable twist on the popular franchise.
  
  But those in 
 search of a deep story, open-ended environments or high-definition graphics should swing past this 
 title.
  
  As its name suggests, "Spider-Man: Friend or Foe" lets you play as the webbed wonder but also lets 
 you choose a sidekick from one of a dozen villains as they team up to fight a greater evil. 
  
  Each with their own unique fighting technique and super powers, sidekicks include Doctor Octopus 
 ("Doc Ock") , Venom, Rhino and Green Goblin, all of whom need to be defeated before they'll fight 
 alongside you.
  
  While playing alone, you control one character as the game's artificial intelligence handles the 
 other. For example, while fighting baddies as Spider-Man, the computer will control, say, Sandman, 
 but you can switch at any time by pressing a button on the game pad. 
  
  The game's mechanics also allow the two characters to work together, such as bypassing traps (by 
 each character stepping on pressure plates at the same time) or defeating a bigger "boss" enemy 
 by taking advantage of each character's skills. 
  
  If you want to replay a level -- be it in a high-tech laboratory, on the sandy streets of Egypt, 
 along city rooftops or throughout a creepy Transylvania -- you can swap out the current sidekick 
 for a newly unlocked one from the main game screen. This adds to the game's replayability.
  
  Another welcome feature in "Spider-Man: Friend or Foe" is built-in cooperative play. At any 
 time, a friend can pick up a second controller on the game system and take control of the second 
 hero or villain.
  
  Played from a third-person perspective -- and in classic "platformer" style -- the action tends 
 to move from the left side of the screen to the right -- you will have fun "button mashing" to 
 defeat the enemies. 
  
  Influenced by the game's comic book origins, the characters and environments are colorful and bright. 
 The animation is smooth, so you will enjoy pulling off slick moves, such as using Spidey's web 
 to pull items toward him, or using aerial acrobatics during combat sequences.
  
  Skilled gamers will be rewarded with special unlockable characters, including the black-suited 
 Spider-Man from the last motion picture, as well as special behind-the-scenes material accessible 
 at anytime throughout the game, such as movies, character art and more. A "Versus" mode lets you 
 fight in a number of arenas.
  
  Perfect for younger players who want a fairly straightforward fighting game but with plenty of 
 replayability, "Spider-Man: Friend or Foe" is an enjoyable twist on the popular franchise.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 19, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  I'm a huge Spider-Man fan, so I thought I'd pick this one up. This game was just what I expected 
 it to be -- a very expected kids game that isn't really entertaining for very long.
  Story -- the story is really basic. Spider-Man gets kidnapped by Nick Fury in a helcarrier to try 
 to save the world. Meteor shards have landed all around the Eastern Hemisphere, and it's Spider-Man's 
 job to get them back. Along the way villains show up throughout different levels, along with other 
 heroes. They'll join sides with you to complete the adventure. During combat, Spider-Man will make 
 some sarcastic and humorous comments, but the humor is based for a younger gaming audience. The 
 story fails to get you really interested in it.
  Graphics -- the graphics are surprisingly good, considering it's a cartoon-based kids game. Spider-Man 
 and his comrades have detail, along with (surprisingly) the environments, which the developers 
 usually don't pay too much attention to, as it is a kids-based game. Enemies look alright, though 
 there isn't much variety. Overall, the graphics are a bit better than I expected.
  Gameplay -- the gameplay is fun for a while, but gets frustrating and boring after a while. This 
 is a two-player game, which adds more fun to the game, as you can play with a friend throughout 
 the missions. There are 5 different missions, with 4 levels in each. The game takes about 10-12 
 hours if you want to collect everything. The combat is like a button masher. The buttons consist 
 of punching and a variety of web attacks. Defeating enemies will earn you money, which can then 
 be spent on upgrades in the helcarrier. You can upgrade Spider-Man's web attacks or upgrade the 
 other character's you discover along the way. Unfortunately, the combat wears off, becoming repetitive, 
 along with the levels. Boss fights aren't that fun either, being too simplistic. I usually like 
 easy games with a bit of challenge, but this game is far too easy. To take a break from the story 
 missions, there's a multiplayer versus mode, where you and a partner choose characters and a level 
 and battle each other. It seems like this was just put in for some extra playing time, and it becomes 
 dull very quickly, just like the rest of the game.
  Story: 5.3/10 -- even though this is a kids-game, they could've put a bit more effort into the story, 
 as it doesn't provide any twists, though there are some humorous scenes.
  Graphics: 6.7/10 -- the graphics are surprisingly good for this type of game, with good-looking character 
 models and environments, though the enemies have almost no variety and the animations look ugly. 
 
  Gameplay: 5.7/10 -- alright for a while but grows dull after a few hours into the game.
  Final Thoughts: For any young Spider-Man fans, go rent this game, since it doesn't have any replay 
 value. For anyone who isn't a Spider-Man fan, but is young, it's worth a rent, as you probably 
 will enjoy it. The game is worth a rent for the easy achievements, if you like those. The game 
 has its humorous moments, but the dull combat and boring story will prevent you from enjoying this 
 game much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StkyHed
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 20, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  I just rented this game from blockbuster and its good but not good enough. I have always been a 
 huge spider man fan and I have always liked the games with him in them. This game, I thought was 
 going to be awesome because we can now play as villains, but i was wrong.
  
  This game can get boring easily because bad guys pop out of thin air and sometimes take a while 
 to kill. plus there are so many of them. Each level is like the same kind of place with platforms 
 and everything, but they all have different colors. To be honest, the only way I can actually play 
 this game is to beat two levels or so, and then come back to the next day and do the same thing.
 
  
  All in all, some of the moves that the guys can make (especially spidey) can make this game a little 
 bit of fun. I mean, what could be better than beating the crap out of a phantom???
  
  One more thing I must point out is that you never die, u simply disappear and then reappear, and 
 it is very easy to fall of. A couple times i have jumped off accidentally and lost some stuff. 
 
  
  To conclude this is a fun game, but not a game that gamers should be playing... its more for younger 
 kids who want a video game that they can enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gashoe13
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2008 3:53 am PT
Review:  Not bad... this game had some amazing scenes. for example, the fighing is just supreme. All the 
 combat looks just omg, as some of your combos are just... sweet. I thought this game was fun, although 
 a bit repetitive. Most of everything was cool, but sometimes, the graphics screw up, and don't 
 look awesome. There isn''t much motio; n telling, and the controls aren't too great, but the game 
 is fun overall. Seriously, A to punch, B to grab, and (heaven forbid) Z to jump!? But, the intro 
 scene was a-mazing!!!
  If you want a quick brawler to smash your way through, you should have some quick and easy fun 
 with Spider-man Friend or Foe. I really seriously enjoyed this game. At first, it can seem just 
 super fun-fun, but soon, it gets slightly boring with all of the same thing. But, the game won't 
 ever have an impossible objectives (like other certain games) . And, sometimes, the sidekicks can't 
 do as much. Otherwise, it's great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King-Yoshi
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 3:40 am PT
Review:  Spiderman Friend or Foe was fun throughout, however that fun didn't last long thanks to the short 
 length of the game.
  
  Graphics: The stylized graphics look good and really fit the comic book nature of the game. All 
 of the punches and combos look cool and I really liked the animation for special attacks. One minor 
 complaint though, some of the backgrounds seemed pretty dull in my opinion.
  
  Controls: The controls were simple yet very effective. Many of the moves and combos were executed 
 by simply pressing A to punch and then throws were executed by flicking the Wii mote. Special moves 
 like Spidey's web toss were easy to perform and the team specials (Spiderman and his partner do 
 a cool attack combining both their powers) . It can get a bit repetitive towards the end though.
 
  
  Story: There's a co-op and single player option to battle through the story. For the most part 
 the game is fun, but it's just too short. I beat it in about 4 hours or so. The enivornments were 
 sort of uninspired in my opinion and most of the game consisted of fighting the same enemies again 
 and again. Upgrading the characters was certainly a nice touch, as was picking partners, but special 
 attacks didn't work on bosses.
  
  Lasting Appeal: After the game is beaten there really isn't any incentive to go back to beat the 
 game again or upgrade all the characters. The multiplayer arena was fun for a few minutes, but 
 it gets dull after a while. Overall, I would recommend this game to Spiderman fans, but it's more 
 of a rental in my opinion thanks to its really short length. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TenaciousAds
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  It's an enjoyable game but there is no doubt its so easy you just keep coming back to life. Its 
 funny some of the speeches a few tough bits with bosses trying to figure out the mystery criminal 
 behind it when venom says he has a bubble for a head. Its great for all ages athough some more 
 famous sidekicks would make it brilliant. The story is good about the phantoms and you get some 
 laughs with the computer and cournal fury arguments its just perfect. Brillantly thought out and 
 voiced but two short and easy.
  
  If you had difficulty levels that would improve the game but don't rent it if you are thinking 
 of buying it if you rent play just the first couple of levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bransr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  I love this game. But some of it takes too long. The missions there needs to be more missions. 
 2 player is very fun cause you get to play with family and friends and everyone loves that. I wish 
 that you could find more power ups. I wouldn't rate this a 10 cause it's too long, (some of it) 
 hard to find things but thats mostly it. Spider man is the main charter mostly the whole. But i 
 think his the best in the not because he is the good guy but his webs are awsomely good. If you 
 love fighting games and Spider Man and his foes you have to try this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiidog
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Spider-man Friend or Foe is fun at first but is sooooooo easy. The game is so easy that it is literally 
 impossible to lose, LITERALLY!!!! The game gives you no certain number of lives so you die and 
 just respawn, so the game ends really quickly. Since you can't actually die it gets really old 
 really fast. Also there is absolutely NO diversity between all of the enemies you will fight. They 
 all look a little different but they all do the same thing with no increase in difficulty. There 
 is also no diversity in the people you use. Each person does one insignificant thing a little diferent 
 than the next character but thats it. Really Venom and The Sand Man do the exact same thing which 
 is pathectic. Over all this game can be beaten easily in a day. Reading the instruction booklet 
 is probably more challenging than the game itself. Don't buy this game. It is a waste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neo_Kelyn
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Spider-man: Friend or Foe.
  The game sees you enlisted by Colonel Nick Fury to take on and take out a new symbiote threat that 
 has recently crashed landed on earth. Along the way Spider Man will combat, rescue and ally with 
 myriad heroes and villains from the Spider Man/ Marvel universe.
  
  Vital Stats:
  Gameplay - 7
  Visuals - 6
  Audio - 8
  Fun - 7
  Replay value - 5
  
  + Very definitely 
 a funny game.
  + Music and Speech are both well composed and cheekily humorous.
  + Vs. and Co-op multiplayer are just plain fun.
  = Combat system is solid, if somewhat limited.
 
  = Simple learning curve makes it easy to pick up and play.
  - Some sub-par camera work. - Playable characters are unbalanced - Spiderman is clearly the best.
 
  - Short and easy as hell. It can be completed in a day.
  - No compulsion to complete 100%, nor replay once completed
  
  Personally I have never been 
 a fan of Marvel games; I simply just don't know enough about the universe to get the most out of 
 them. That, and there is always a whole host of better games out there. I got this game because 
 I suspected it might possess a reasonable multiplayer (I've never been a fan of minigame multiplay.) 
 I'll tell you something, my guess was on the money.
  Let's get this straight. This is not a game that will see you donating sperm, just so that you 
 can afford it. Even if you're hard up and have a hard on for Spider Man, the game's just not worth 
 the effort (though I can think of less pleasant ways of getting money) . However, if you see this 
 game going for &pound;20 or under - AND regularly play multiplayer games - then do yourself a favour 
 and jump on it.
  The first 5/ 10 minutes of this game set the tone perfectly. You're greeted with some fast, excitable 
 and fairly heavy music which almost perfectly reflects the core gameplay, and that's just the opening 
 menu screen. Upon actually starting the game you'll get your average story opening FMV with bog 
 standard visuals, visuals that are bested by certain PSone titles, and reasonable animation, accompanied 
 by some sweet music and a sharp script.
  
  Right, good, I think I've driven those points home. Repeatedly. With a pnuematic drill. Time to 
 get down to gameplay.
  After a brief in egine cut scene in which Colonel Nick Fury (who rescued you from a horde of attacking 
 symbiotes) explains the situation and enlists your help is sorting it all out, you're given a chance 
 to wander round the deck of the S. H. I. E. L. D helicarrier which acts as your in game hub, providing 
 interfaces for upgrades (bought using enemy dropped tokens) , sidekick selection (unlocked during 
 the quest) , secrets (unlocked through targets and collectibles) , game options and level selection. 
 The first thing you'll notice here is Spider Man (whom you move using the nunchuk thumb stick) . 
 To be more speciffic, the first thing you'll notice is Spider Man's run. If you've ever watched 
 the Special Olympics you know those guys that run using kangaroo like plate metal spring boards? 
 Our heroe's run is just as animated as that, but a fraction of the speed. Still, you learn to ignore 
 it pretty soon. (the bounce that is, the slow speed can get annoying when moving between areas.)
 
  When you actually start the adventure you're treated to a quick briefing. I have to point out 
 that it is worth buying the game just for these instances. The briefing (usually) consists of a 
 dialogue between Spider Man, Nick Fury and the outrageously sarcastic Helicarrier Computer. It's 
 the development of this three way relationship that provides the biggest laughs. I s*** you not; 
 it's freakin' hilarious. Anyway, briefing over, you're dumped in Tokyo, with a sidekick of your 
 choosing, and almost immediately get caught up in a small skirmish, during which you're taught 
 the basics. The combat system is a cake walk, simpler even than Zelda. Z button to jump, B button 
 you grab/ web and the A button to attack; the game can be completed using nothing but these buttons 
 (and the thumbstick) . Every move and combo is performed using these buttons in various combinations 
 of presses and the occasional hold. This makes the game oh so easy to get into, but within about 
 half an hour of play you will know pretty much everything there is to combat. Relief comes in later 
 on when you earn different web techniques, which consist of Web Line (think MK's Scorpion and his 
 harpoon) , Web Shoot (compacted web balls of web: Impact Webbing) and Web Stun (encase opponents 
 in cocoons of web) through which you can cycle using the C button. In addition to these are temporary 
 power ups which you can activate using the D-pad. depending on which direction you press you will 
 either heal, become temporarily invincible, double your strength or use a Hero attack. The hero 
 attack is differs depending on whom you have employed as yourside kick, but the effect is always 
 the same: Spider Man + sidekick launch themselves into the air and become the super hero equivolent 
 of Little Boy to all on screen foes. The web slam manoeuvers, of which there are three, can be 
 performed using gestures with the Wiimote, but these feel outrageously tacked on. Once you realise 
 that the web slams, the most entertaining attacks in the game, can be executed with button presses 
 these shamelessly superfluous gesture controls become almost entirely obsolete.
  This combat system is simple, and really quite effective. Even after hours of play you can still 
 get a cheap thrill from webbing an enemy out of the air only to slam him into the ground, causing 
 an outrageously over the top explosion that takes out all other nearby enemies. However there are 
 two major faults. After hours and more hours of play the combat can grow a little stale. At this 
 point you might be tempted to switch to controlling your sidekick, which is done by shaking the 
 nunchuk. Even though it can be fairly incosistant, this is the only control gesture worth using, 
 but only, I believe, because there isn't a corresponding button. Now, sidekicks can be fun, for 
 a few minutes, but their attacks are limited and there's something that feels generally unpolished 
 about them. Spidey is just a hell of a lot more fun. Either way, the problem remains that the combat 
 becomes fairly repetive, something that is exacerbated by the second major fault.
  This fault is a poor range of enemies. Boss battles are far from imaginative and serve only to 
 break up the uninspired combat which forms the bulk of the game, and it's this uninspired bulk 
 that I'm directing my criticism at. Throughout the 20 stages that the game offers you'll find yourself 
 fighting the same 4 enemies over and over again. Granted, their appearance, strength and special 
 abillity differ from level to level, but for all intents and purposes they remain the same. It 
 was this combination of small atack list and even smaller enemy list that led me to knock off a 
 huge chunk from the overall score.
  Combat aside, the visuals do nothing to help nor hinder the occasionally lack lustre gameplay. 
 Some imagination has gone into the scenery, and in the comic book / faux cell shaded visual scheme 
 they look fairly pretty, though the ealiest stages are really quite drab. The characters, though 
 clearly simplified, remain faithful to the comic books, and the enemies, when the camera gets close 
 enough, are sweet and simple and almost comical in appearance. The special effects? Well, while 
 they can become fantastically over the top later in the game, they're nothing to write home about 
 . Seen 'em a hundred times in other games; didn't care then, don't care now.
  Simply put, the audio is great. The soundtrack always matches the scene and often uses stereotyped 
 instruments and scales effectively and almost humorously. Sure, it's hardly surprising to be exploring 
 Transylvania to the sound of dimished chords played on a pipe organ, in fact, one might go so far 
 as to suggest that it's exactly what you'd expect. And yet, when it comes to battling symbiotic 
 transylvanian you're given exactly the same but with a pumping drum beat and some solid rock/ or 
 techno embelishments. Brilliant. What more could you want to this. In addition to this, the voice 
 acting is, by far, more hit than miss. Alright, so the in-game quips and banter can grow old after 
 five or six hours, but doesn't mean they're not superbly performed... mostly. I must praise those 
 who voiced Spider Man, Black Cat and the helicarrier Computer. Simply brilliant.
  So what's left? Well, the game is more full of secrets and collectibles than the Bush regime is 
 full of s***.... actually, I don't want to be misleading, that is somewhat in accurate. You get 
 the idea, though. The thing is, the levels are all fairly linear so you won't have to look too 
 hard to find them. You probably won't even want to as the secrets and unlockables aren't particularly 
 great. Concept art? Great... that's, uh.... that's just great. Also, the game really isn't hard. 
 You never die, you merely have 10 tech tokens (upgrade currency) deducted and then you respawn 
 to battle on.
  By this point the game deserves a score no higher than 6.5 / 6.6, so if you're a lonely player 
 then it's probably best to gloss over this game, unless you're a fan boy. Fan boys will eat this 
 **** up. I say this because what really improves this game is the multiplay co-op. Sure, there's 
 a vs. mode that's quite acceptable but there are three problems. Firstly: the arenas aren't great, 
 and the best of them is the only one you don't have to unlock. Second: even though another player 
 is more challenging than the AI, the limited combat system still takes its toll after a while. 
 Finally, and most importantly, the biggest flaw in Vs. is that whomever plays Spider Man nearly 
 always wins. This said, the one on one is still a good laugh and can entertain you for a few hours, 
 and it's always strangely satisfying to throw a mate off a tokyo roof top.
  The Co op is what this game is about. It's not the be all and end all, but it does add a lot. There 
 is some awesome fun to had in lobbing enemies across the screen so that your pal can catch them 
 and send them back, taking out lines of enemies in the process. In addition to this, you can literally 
 spend hours alley-ooping enemies and slamming them into their comrades. The outrageous attacks 
 (like the way Venom explodes into a spike ball) are always that bit funnier when someone else is 
 nearby to capitalise. And of course you can also turn co op into another Vs. by seeing who can 
 collect the most tech tokens. The subsequent rush to mop up all of the enemies only adds to already 
 frantic action, and it's always fun to throw a particularly lethal enemy at your partner to slow 
 him down while you masacre the small guys. The only real issue with the co op is that it really 
 highlights how shoddy and appalingly undynamic some of the camera work is. The camera can be a 
 nuisance at certain points during the single player, but at those same points in co op the camera 
 can couple with some minor aliasing issues and, not only obscure certain side paths, but make stupidly 
 difficult to attack what seems to be right next to you. This is only very occasional though and 
 you'll compensate for it in a matter of moments (though you may still misjudge certain jumps pretty 
 much consistantly) .
  
  All in all, Spider Man: Friend or Foe is a great little game. It's easy to pick up, easy to play 
 and very easy to enjoy. It's not too heavily steeped in Marvel mythology so just about anyone can 
 enjoy it, though fan boys will get just that little bit more out of it. The presentation is neat, 
 though unimpressive, and the control sceme, while initially great, can become as repetetive as 
 the combat. This won't bring you screaming back for more, but it won't have you screaming in frustration 
 either. Absolute completion of this game quickly starts to feel like a chore so if you've got to 
 do it, bring another along for the ride because this game is significantly by its well executed 
 multiplay.
  Definitely one to get if you see it going cheap. I give it a well earned...
  
  7.3 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Mario-Fan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man: Friend or Foe is the latest game starring our friendly neighborhood superhero. It is 
 based off not only the movies, but also the comics and other forms of Spider-Man media. The world 
 is being invaded by aliens after a meteorite crash, and your sent to recover the shards and find 
 out who's responsible. You team up with sidekicks, some friends, others enemies to help you on 
 your quest. You visit five worlds with four levels each, and you progress by beating up enemies, 
 and collecting coins. The coins can be spent on various powerups for Spider-Man and his sidekicks. 
 The graphics and sounds are rather average, and the adventure is over too quickly to warrant a 
 purchase, but it is fun while it lasts. Try renting it or waiting until the price drops to buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cesarspalace
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  This game was real fun, yeah it was short but it wasnt REAL short, i played this with my bro and 
 it took us a week to pass it, considering that we dont play every day, and we dont play for a long 
 time when we play. The game play was really cool, but Spider-Man does the same moves and it got 
 kinda annoying, but other than that, the game play is good. You could also be the bad guys from 
 Spider-Man, and thats really cool, and u could switch off from the bad guy and spider-man whenever 
 u want when playing one player. The voice acting was really good, had sense of humor, especialy 
 Spider-Man, but thats nothing new, thats why hes my favorite super hero, but the game was funny 
 at times. The game was easy, but at some parts it was hard, but got thru it right away. It kept 
 me guessing about who the main bad guy is, i would have never guessed it was gonna be him, and 
 if u wanna know who im talking bout, go out and buy the game. Looks like theres gonna be a part 
 2 by the way it ended, i hope there will be a part 2. Well it was a really fun game, i enjoyed it, 
 yeah it short and easy, but its real fun, i would really recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smeghead83
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Well... how can i sum this game up.
  
  Well as being surprisingly good, you start off with spider man and a few token sidekicks to play 
 with, but it isn't until the 2nd stage when you unlock your first bad guy (Dr Ock) that the game 
 really gets going and you get to play as the spier man (movie/comic) villains. This is where this 
 game shines and stands way above the awfulness that was SM3, and makes for a very good spider man 
 game that if had a free roam ability would stand way above any other spider man game. But you fight 
 out in stages where you follow the path defeating bad guys as you go along.
  Now the graphics are good, and provide a mix between comic book styles of USM and the realistic 
 feel of SM1, 2 &amp; 3, with the game playing much like Marvel Ultimate Alliance, but only better 
 with an much more fluid looking and individual combat system for each character. each character 
 has his and her own move set and some unique combo and joint attack moves, Dr Ock attacks with 
 his metal tenticels, spider man uses webbing a look and Green Goblin using weapons. now while at 
 first this seems too good to be true, unless you upgrade your characters they just don't stand 
 a chance in the later levels and this is one of the games first problems, with such a varied selection 
 of characters its hard to not keep with one guy and as such you don't really get a feel of the 
 others to much. But seeing how the games bad guys only change there appearance you really wont 
 find this game to hard to complete, which means that stage after stage its the same type of bad 
 guys over and over
  
  Now the two player works well and is great fun for both players, controls work well, but i find 
 that i have to shake the Nunchuk as hard as i can to switch characters in one player mode. All 
 in all this is a must buy for any Wii owner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magicquebec
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  First... there's no way you can't beat this game, you can't get lost, you can't really die, it's 
 easy, but its fun. I picked up the game today, it's part of my play with my girlfriend games. All 
 the friend or foe character are fun to upgrade and play, they all got different styles of play, 
 Scorpion is more Long Range, Doc Oct goes melee, and Black Cat is a Spiderman clone character, 
 etc...
  
  The sound is excellent, i give it a 10 in sound departement, when you listen closely, you can hear 
 the sound of feets walking in water while its raining, the sound of Doc Oct's claws are so realistic, 
 it's like in the movie.
  
  I give it a 7.5 because it's a lil short, and lil easy, but not that easy, i edited my review because 
 the more you play the harder it gets, but if you're a good gamer, there's no way in hell you can't 
 finish this game.
  
  Anyway i think this is a great game. Full price, i mean it's a lil expensive if you're a full time 
 gamer, you'll just finish the game in a day or two, but if you see this game for like 20$ in 6 
 month in the Walmart price discount bin, BUY IT! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
