-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Spider-Man 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/spiderman3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Webswinging with the Wii Remote is kind of cool.
 Huge city to explore.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Combat and camera controls are awful.
 A relatively short, completely disjointed storyline.
 Crummy combat moves and lame enemies.
 Graphics are massively underwhelming.
 Cheesy voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  7, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.7
Critic Score: 5.5, 46 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 763 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Vicarious Visions
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: May 4, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Wii version of Spider-Man 3 is a depressing combination of ugly to look at and dull to play. 
 

  Alongside the hotly anticipated film comes the video game adaptation of Spider-Man 3 for consoles. 
 But be forewarned that not all versions offer the same gameplay experience. The Xbox 360 and PlayStation 
 3 versions, produced by longtime Spidey developer Treyarch, were essentially slightly upgraded 
 versions of the previous Spider-Man movie games. The Wii and PlayStation 2 versions were put together 
 by a different studio, Vicarious Visions, and are severely downgraded from the benchmark set by 
 previous Spider-Man movie games. Sure, the Wii version throws in some new motion-sensing controls, 
 and you still get to swing around inside a giant, open-ended version of New York City. But everything 
 else about these iterations of Spider-Man 3 is ugly, clumsy, or utterly boring.  

          This is one adventure Spidey would love to swing his way out of.     

  Spider-Man 3 
 is a tie-in to the film, though it doesn't do a particularly good job of emulating the film's plot. 
 Yes, you get bits and pieces of the key story arcs involving major villains like Venom and Sandman, 
 as well as Spider-Man's groovy (and evil) new black suit. You'll also get some added story chunks 
 involving Lizard, Kraven, and a bunch of random New York City gangs that are floating about the 
 town, causing varying forms of mayhem. However, it's all kind of a mess. There's no real cohesion 
 between all the different plotlines, and while this was also a problem in the PS3 and 360 versions, 
 it's twice as bad here because the Wii and PS2 versions are much shorter. So much of the story 
 and character development are skipped over and so much of what's happening is flat-out boring that 
 it's impossible to care about what's going on.  

  Spider-Man 3 on the Wii and PS2 uses the same core concept of Grand Theft Auto-meets-Spider-Man 
 that the last few Spidey games have used. As you swing around the open-ended city of New York, 
 you can opt to head toward specific story missions or to tackle random crimes that pop up from 
 time to time. Previous Spider-Man games forced you to embark on side missions and solve random 
 crimes to progress the story, but Spider-Man 3 is far less strict about this, and the story progresses 
 more naturally. Still, the side ventures have their merit as a distraction from the main single-player 
 game. Progressing through the main story is merely a roughly eight-hour endeavor, but tackling 
 all the bonus material could easily double that number.  

  Good luck trying to work up the inspiration to play through all that stuff, though. As much content 
 as there is to sift through, the thoroughly lackluster gameplay throws up a brick wall in front 
 of any desire to experience it. The biggest culprit is the combat. The Wii and PS2 versions of 
 Spider-Man 3 use a mechanically similar combo system to the one found in the PS3 and 360 versions, 
 but the key difference is that you don't earn new moves automatically. Instead, you have to upgrade 
 using experience points you gain from completing missions. The moves you earn aren't nearly as 
 cool as the ones found in the PS3 and 360 versions, either. You get a few nifty moves here and 
 there, but mostly you get upgrades to the existing combo trees that are rather flat, overall. Because 
 most enemies don't put up a great fight, you'll find yourself using the same dull combat moves 
 again and again, until you're too bored to put up with it.  

  The other key gameplay difference between these versions and the PS3 and 360 versions is the black 
 suit. In the 360 and PS3 games, the symbiote suit is acquired late in the game and isn't much more 
 than a costume change with one added move. Here, there's a much more elaborate relationship between 
 Spider-Man and the new suit. When you put it on and start fighting with it, you'll find you do 
 more damage more quickly. At the same time, as you do more damage, a meter starts to fill up at 
 the bottom of the screen. This meter depicts how the suit is beginning to take over and feed off 
 you. If you leave it on for too long, you're hosed, so you'll have to take it off after a bit; 
 but to do so, you have to engage in a button-pressing minigame that gets longer each time you use 
 the suit. Enemies are kind enough to stay away while you do this, but even with that courtesy, 
 having to monitor that meter and deal with increasingly long bouts of rhythmic button pressing 
 makes the suit more of a hassle to use than it needs to be.  

          Combat isn't exactly fun in either the PS2 or Wii versions of the game, but the Wii version 
 is extra awful thanks to the control scheme.     

  Mission designs do much to drag the game down too. It's not that the game has terrible missions, 
 but they're so boilerplate and so devoid of intrigue or unique qualities that it's near-on impossible 
 to get into them. The missions involve a lot of running to point A, beating up bad guys, then running 
 to point B, finding bombs and swinging them into the ocean or punching them as needed, then running 
 to point C and fighting more bad guys, this time with guns, and so on and so forth. When you have 
 a game with an interesting combat system and enemies that know more than a couple of basic reactive 
 attacks, you can get away with missions like this. But that's not the case here. Boss fights don't 
 do much to break up the monotony, with generally simplistic patterns that don't make for much of 
 a battle.  

  Since this game is on both the PS2 and Wii, there are some key control differences to note. The 
 PS2 version uses the fully standard control scheme, with no surprises to speak of. However, the 
 Wii version includes a variety of gesture-based controls for everything from webslinging to fighting. 
 To be fair, some effort clearly went into this control scheme, especially when it comes to webswinging. 
 Flicking the Wii Remote or Nunchuk forward while pressing the B or Z button lets out a line of 
 web, and you use the analog stick on the Nunchuk to steer. It takes some getting used to, but it's 
 a very cool mechanic that works better than you'd expect (though the thrill of swinging around 
 this city is much less than in previous Spider-Man games, for reasons we'll get to shortly) .  

 
  On the opposite side of things are the combat controls. To put it bluntly, the combat in the Wii 
 version borders on unplayable -- not just because of the severely weak and unresponsive waving motions 
 you have to do over and over again to pull off moves, but because the camera control is abysmal. 
 You have to hold down the C button and tilt the Nunchuk in either direction to spin the camera. 
 That isn't going to cut it when you're in the middle of a battle (especially boss battles) , no 
 matter how stupid the enemies are -- especially  when the camera moves as slowly as this one. In 
 both versions of the game, the camera proves to be a challenge for other reasons as well. When 
 you're wallcrawling or webswinging or fighting in tight areas, the camera tends to get rather jittery 
 and cause you to lose sight of whom you're fighting or which way is up or down.  

  One other thing the Wii and PS2 versions have in common is that they are dog ugly. It's as though 
 Vicarious Visions took the Spider-Man 2 graphics engine and proceeded to beat it with ugly sticks 
 until there was almost nothing recognizable left. The city environment is a series of nondescript 
 blocks that are supposed to represent buildings. The streets are sparsely populated, trees and 
 grass look like something out of a PC game circa 1998, and even with everything low-res, the frame 
 rate still chugs. It's extra crummy looking if you swing up real high or hit the top of one of 
 the taller skyscrapers, because all the world textures disappear, leaving even more nondescript 
 blocks behind than the ones that were already there. The Spider-Man character model at least looks 
 decent up close, though the other character models look rather generic and sometimes are missing 
 a face, or have props they're supposed to be holding in their hands clipping through their elbows. 
 At the very least, the Wii version does look a touch crisper than the PS2 version, has slightly 
 better lighting, and the frame rate isn't quite as chuggy. Cutscenes are either ripped directly 
 from the 360 and PS3 versions (complete with tons of ugly artifacting) or use this version of the 
 game's engine, meaning you'll get two different qualities of character models during cutscenes, 
 depending on whether you're seeing something recycled from the other games or something exclusive 
 to the Wii and PS2.  

          Let's play a game of 'Where'd the building textures go!'     

  While it might seem 
 like a big deal that much of the  Spider-Man 3  film cast appears in this game, their performances 
 aren't especially good. J. K. Simmons as J. Jonah Jameson is the lone bright spot. Tobey Maguire 
 gives a sleepy, generally OK performance as Peter Parker/Spider-Man, and all the others (including 
 James Franco, Thomas Haden Church, and Topher Grace) sound like they'd rather be anywhere else 
 than recording this dialogue. It doesn't help that the dialogue is painful in most cases, especially 
 the pedestrian dialogue. The random people that show up to talk to you either speak flatly with 
 no emotion or try to ham it up with the most forced-sounding accents imaginable. At least the music's 
 good, though audio does have a nasty tendency to cut out at seemingly random intervals.  

  Spider-Man 3 on the Wii and PS2 is ultimately a total washout. The badly cut-together storyline, 
 nasty graphics, and dull-as-a-doornail gameplay all come together to create an experience that 
 feels entirely haphazard. When you can't even make the sensation of webswinging freely through 
 a major metropolis thrilling, or turn Spider-Man's array of nimble combat moves into something 
 halfway entertaining, you know you've got a stinker on your hands. If you absolutely, positively 
  must  have a Spider-Man game to go along with your enjoyment of the film, look toward other versions 
 of the game. The Wii and PS2 versions just don't cut it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (119 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Tengu-Ninja
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 11, 2009 9:22 am PT
Review:  Oye where to start. From the first point in the game you start to think "hey I can web sling using 
 the nunchuck and wiimote that's kinda cool" Then it dawns on you that this mechanic is really the 
 only average factor of this poorly crafted movie game. At that point you crush the game disc and 
 put in a good game like Metroid Prime 3 and have a damn good time forgetting this game was ever 
 made. Let's start with the graphics, at first they seem decent with lighting effects until you 
 look closely... the lighting seems to never match up correctly 0. o not to mention cutscenes make 
 every character look like a drug addict. The gameplay results in the usual beat them up, pick up 
 person, go here, get that and that is really it for the whole game. Sure you get some button pressing 
 minigames but it is usually the same button to open a locked door or something. Spidy gets some 
 battle upgrades which can add some lasting value if you want to play through the game but really 
 would you want to? Hey if Spider-man is your cup of tea and you need everything related to him 
 then go ahead and get this game, but don't expect to be blown away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed Spider-Man 2 for the PS2 a lot, and so did most people. I was expecting this game to 
 be similar, except better graphics, gameplay and free roaming. Was I right? Unfortunately not. 
 After a brief tutorial level inside of a burning building, you'll be set free to roam around Manhattan 
 freely. Unlike Spider-Man 2, you can't actually go inside buildings. The web-swinging is alright, 
 but often times you'll be swinging in the wrong direction because of the bad camera. While on ground, 
 you don't really run all that fast. Combat consists of some awkward button-mashing, along with 
 a clumsy dodge maneuver. The mission design is often very simple, and really quite boring. The 
 story ties in somewhat with the film, but not really. The visual presentation tends to drag the 
 entire experience down, though. Often times building textures can't keep up with how fast you're 
 web-swinging. The coloring and the character models can use work, along with the awful custscenes. 
 The in game sound is good, but the voice acting is mediocre.
  
  Story: 4/10 -- it didn't tie in with the film very well at all
  
  Gameplay: 6.6/10 -- fun for a 
 while but then gets repetitive
  
  Graphics: 4.8/10 -- everything looks poor
  
  Sound: 6/10 -- ok voice acting with good in-game sound
  
  Enjoyment: 5.8/10 -- the game won't take 
 you that long to beat, and most players might not even finish the game
  
  Final Thoughts: If you like Spider-Man, then rent this game, because it's just not worth a full 
 purchase of $20. If you really want a fun Spider-Man game, look at Spider-Man 2 or Spider-Man 3 
 for current generation systems. Spider-Man 3 is a big disappointment and falls in the mediocre 
 gaming range, where most movie-tie-ins tend to fall.
  
  Final Score: 5.7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: immortal_ermac
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 9, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  I'll give you a quick answer NO
  on the Wii version they put in some pretty fun ways of enjoying the game buy using the wiimote 
 and nunchuk to swing around was a very good choice however that is the highlight of the game.
 
  the combat system in nowhere near as extensive as spider-man 2 neither are the side missions on 
 top of all the the lighting effect that hit spider-man's suite look a little choppy and unfinished. 
 Speaking of choppy in the combat portion of the game runs smooth if there is a maximum of 3 people 
 including spider-man engaged at a time however the game is basically a beat em' up game so brawling 
 sessions are quite common because of this so are the frame skips. although the game is extremely 
 short so you wont have to put up with too much of a disappointment 
  PLEASE don't let this be the last spider-man game this is not the point you want to leave on
 
  bring out a spider-man game to dig this one out of it's grave
  
  My verdict is don't buy if you wanna beat the game rent it it will take about 5 hours 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tjharwin
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 18, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  I went to go see Spider-Man the movie in cinemea some 5 or 6 years ago, and loved it. I bought 
 the game and loved that too. I never bought Spider-Man 2 but I did have many chances to play it 
 round my cousins house. I've got all 3 movies on DVD and I guess I could say I'm a huge fan of 
 the movies. Probably my favourite movie trilogy of all time.
  
  I bought Spider-Man 3 for the Wii because it looked pretty fantastic in the trailers I'd seen, 
 and I was very hyped about going to see the movie. I'm not usually one to judge graphics, so when 
 I was about 2 hours into this game I didn't know what to think. I normally say "Hey, who needs 
 graphics? It's all about gameplay." But I think you have to draw the line somewhere in next-gen 
 consoles. Graphics have to be somewhat acceptable, and Spider-Man 3 looks like it's gone back to 
 PS1 graphics (I'm not joking) .
  
  The controls? Love them! Web swinging has never been so realistic. I sometimes pop this game in 
 just for a 30 min web swinging free roam session. The fighting system is also good, with a number 
 of combos and moves which you can unlock in the points system.
  
  The game is fairly short, yet if you play it on hard mode, you'll find it a fun challenge. I did 
 this about a month ago and enjoyed it to a fair extent.
  
  In conclusion, I'd say that you should not consider buying this game, as most people are graphics 
 conscience. Whereas... I'm not much. I seriously recommend you play it though, heck, it's a blast 
 free roaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 555fabulous21
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Most, no ALL fans of Spider-man must feel totally shocked at how terrible this game is. I waited 
 the long days for it to come out. Then the movie had came out and it was awesome. Many people were 
 so happy and went to go buy the game. After I bought it for $52.99 I went straight home to turn 
 on my wii and slide the game in. The first two hours I played it, I opened my mouth to realize 
 this game actually reeked. So there's awesome swinging, cool transforming ( from red suit to venom) 
 but everything else was a plain waist of time. After beating the game in exactly 8 hours, I began 
 to feel sorry for people who actually buy this game. Without the storyline, I would give the game 
 a lower score than I did. Simply, rent it first so you don't waist your money. I plainly just wish 
 the company could of thought before they sent the game out! Arg! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastachieff
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 22, 2008 4:50 am PT
Review:  At first site this game was a very cool and fun experience, but once you get maybe 40% through 
 the game thats when it goes down hill, the game gets very repetitive, and on sum sub missions you 
 will be doing everything absolutely correct but you will still somehow fail the mission, thats 
 stupid, learn how to make a game. And the controls are very unresponsive at times, like for instance 
 i was swinging between buildings and for some reason i droped to the ground then my web shot and 
 and i started doing a cartwheel while swinging on the web. And the Boss fights can become pain 
 and dull as you are doing the same thing over and over again, and other times while your just freeroaming 
 you wont be able to shoot your web even if your next to things to grab. This game had a chance 
 to be great but of course it was rushed and theirfore unfinished. Nuf said 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spider-manfan45
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 21, 2008 4:54 am PT
Review:  Its Rushed. Yes Its pretty much the word i need rushed. But there is good to this rushed game. 
 The way you swing around the city, and the fact that your left hand is your actual left hand in 
 the game and your right hand is your.... you guessed it your right hand!!!!!!!!! But it needs a 
 little getting used to swing and also the combat tires your hands. also did u know that those blocks 
 with dots are buildings???? And do you know its not a hard game???? ok you probably knew both but 
 who cares??? I better stop with the ????? right ???? and just because tobey maguire is in it the 
 voice actors are horrible. except J. K simons go Jonah!!!!!!! so my final verdict is check your 
 bargain bin. Oh yeh and did i mention i got half priced. So suck that 
 
  
  REAL SCORE 7.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguinboy95
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  from the beginning of all 3-D spider man games (with good graphics) for consoles, spider man has 
 been fun. but 4 good games later they made the worst mistake they could make, they switched publishers. 
 but game spot were total spazzes reviewing the game (no offense to game spot) . they said the graphics 
 were terrible but ultimate spider man graphics were terrible. they said the combat was terrible 
 but in ultimate spider man you used to press 2 buttons as fast as you could for no point what so 
 ever. but playing as symbeon spider man is fun and you really feel powerful. the tree of unlockable 
 new attacks was a good idea to help keep you getting too powerful too early. the web slinging is 
 actually very fun and takes a lot of practice. and of course the classic narrator is back and with 
 more funny things to say . until my next review bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Polo136
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 1, 2008 1:59 am PT
Review:  Spiderman 3, where to start, where to start. It's an OK game, but it's a movie tie-in so don't 
 expect a great review from me. At first you think WOW these controls are great, ten minutes later 
 you think will it ever latch onto the building I want it to?
  Graphics: Well, they look alright at first, but then you realise that there's nothing to look at 
 here. The lighting is especially bad as when you stand in one spot, especially when you're talking 
 to a random guy in the street because it flicks on and off all over Spidey's back.
  Controls: Not bad, but not great either, they seem really cool at first but then it gets way too 
 repeatative, the same movements over and over again, SOO boring!
  Gameplay: Nothing interesting to see in this compartment, nothing interesting to say either.
 
  The missions in Spiderman 3 are really quite boring, after you've finished the initial story you 
 then have to help the cops reclaim the city. By doing this you continuolsy find yourself waving 
 around your rists in order to bash enemies which leaves you with sore wrists.
  The game is too short, but what did you expect from a movie tie-in? I mean, you'd be lucky to find 
 a decent movie game.
  
  Spiderman 3 is worth a rent, but nothing more, trust me, save your money for a game worth spending 
 half your allowance on.
  Overall: OK.
  
  Adios Amigos! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domenico54
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 26, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Well from my score you can determine that i did not like this game. First off spider man2 was almost 
 the same thing except the storyline. Second problem it was to easy i beat this game in five hours 
 at least and it was in a weeks span of time. I strangely remember these type of missons in spiderman2.... and 
 strangly the spiderman2 missions were alot better! weird.... Third problem this is a teen game. If 
 a 10 year old had played this game he probbly would enjoy it more than a 13 year old beating it 
 in five hours and wanting that 50 bucks from the game store. The stats id give to this game is 
 as 3 to gameplay , 1 value, 6 graphics, 4 tilt. i highly recommend that save up 10 more bucks for 
 super smash brothers brawl or call of duty4. Personally i liked spiderman2 because you had more 
 free space and you can go into stores, hidden tokens, hidden moves, and so on. spiderman3 does not 
 let you do that and that was a huge disappointment to me. I personally hated this game it will 
 go in the "worst fifty dollars ever spent in my life" folder. Maybe you didnt like my review but, 
 if you wanna throw 50 bucks down the toilet and then flush be my guest I was just trying to prevent 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megaman309
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 13, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Okay first off, Spider-Man 3 for the Nintendo Wii is not a bad game just a flawed one. 
  I thought the gameplay was fun, using the Wii-mote and nunchuk to attack and dodge enemies and 
 the ability to web-sling with both hands drew me in more than other Spider-Man games have. And 
 being able to use Spider-Man's black suit was a total plus for me, being able to weild total power 
 and use it against my enemies was so exciting. Adding to my excitment was the chance to fight some 
 realy cool villians like Sandman, New Goblin, Kraven, Lizard, and my favorite villian Venom. But 
 sadly there were some things that brought me back down to earth like a pumpkin bomb. While the 
 music was really cool sounding ( it kinda reminded me of the Shadow a little bit.) it would cut 
 out in places (like when I was out fighting the gangs of New York.)
  the graphics were good but not what I expected, and while there were interactive cinematics there 
 weren't that many as I hoped and when there was, they didn't have the same impact as the ones from 
 the PS3/X-Box/PC versions ( I mean seriously, in the PS3 Sandman fight, Spidey was just unloading 
 some brutal attacks. On the Wii, you just toss him into a train, how is that fair?) and though 
 you can fight Venom, his death kinda sucks (The suit kills him?!!? WTF?!?!) .And while I got to 
 wail on some cool villains, I had my hopes up to kick the crap out of Scorpion, Rhino, and Kingpin 
 (I got instead Shriek and Morbius, yay.) The missions were kinda on the short side which of course 
 made the game itself short. And one more thing I forgot is that there is no Times Square at all 
 in the game (I'm not kidding) .
  But please don't let these grips stop you from buying this, it's a good game that if you can overlook 
 some of this stuff then you'll have a good time.
  I recomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sper56
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2008 9:17 pm PT
Review:  good use of wii-mote. fair game play. you should get it. its fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. 
 fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. 
 fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. 
 fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. 
 fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. 
 fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. 
 fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. 
 fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. 
 fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. 
 fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockOut9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  
  
  Swinging from the tops of buildings. Fighting super villains and gangs. climbing up walls. dealing 
 with the weird newspaper dude. everything u want!!! i agree and disagree with the theory that u 
 have to be a spiderman fan to enjoy the game. I'm not a hardcore fan but i enjoy it once u get 
 a hang of the controls u will be ready to be the actual spiderman. no, seriously. if your dream 
 waw to become spiderman at maybe a fee of $50 bucks than today is ur lucky day ya i guess the graphics 
 are a little blah but you get to fight the sandman the new green goblin , and venom. oh ya u get 
 to be the black suited spider man. but it is a tad hard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathdude415
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  For my first Action Game on the Wii, Spider-man 3 is pretty entertaining. My favorite part is the 
 web swinging, and that's what I realy was looking foward to in this game, but in combat, the controls 
 seem pretty non-sensecal, I mean how does waving the Wiimote back and forth feel like punching 
 somebody? The voiceovers were pretty good, but who cares about those? Bill Campbell, the narrator 
 is really funny, And there are plenty of unlockables. now I can't tell you I was listening real 
 closely but I didn't hear a hint of Spider-man music in the gameplay, I mean COME ON! how hard 
 is it to put in some Danny Elfman? Atleast that would have made it a little more entertaining, 
 I don't know about you but I probably will only play this game a few more times, then trade it 
 in for SMG.
  
  The Pros:
  Good Tutorial Mode,
  Funny Narrator,
  
  The Cons:
  Weird Combat,
  lame score,
  No real "I want to play it again!" feeling 
::::::

::::::
UserName: broncosfan375
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun experience on the wii and i don know what people are thinking saying thi is a bad 
 game. The controls are inavative and fun. The graphics and having cheesy voice acting is better 
 then having a cheap knock off of the actual actors. imean this is a good game for the wii a lot 
 of people should play now that its cheap. so screw everone who gave it a bad score. there is lots 
 to do and lots to collect to keep you playng for hours. sure this int the best movie game but its 
 not horrible and its fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_Guy_07
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY- 7/10 -- this GAME has an okay game play. The fights are a bit easy and the game is short (story 
 missions) but you can go around after and unlock some extras. Also I like the moves that you can 
 buy.
  
  GRAPHICS- 7.5/10- The graphics are not bad but not amazing. At some pointx the graphics get fuzzy 
 and building textures disappear. 
  
  SOUND- 8/10- The soynd is great in the videos that they put time into. The ingame sound is cool 
 and I like how the web slinging sound comes out of the Wii remote. The accents are cheesy and so 
 are spidermans BURNS.
  
  CONTROLS- 7.5/10- The controls are ok. By far the webslinging is the best (press B or Z and flick 
 wii remote. The fighting and camra cintrols didn't work out too well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vista8
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 5:57 am PT
Review:  Spider- man 3 was sucky.
  First the graphics. Spider -man 1and Spider- man 2 had better graphics!
  The conrols, were a 
 lode of crap. Shake the wiimote to punch and kick people. That gets realy anoying when there is 
 five guys with guns shooting you.
  Early in the game, you fight The New Goblin. I died almost 15 times before I beat him. He swings 
 his green sword at you, you swing the wiimote (and sometimes the nunchuk) up or down. But it only 
 gives you one second to do it, if you don't do that in time, The Goblin hits you, then you fly 
 off his flying snowboard thing.
  In the middel of the game, you fight a vampire, thats right a vampire. So, when I saw the vampire, 
 I was saying: "WTF? Why am I fighting a vampire in a Spider-man game?" The only two good things 
 in Spider-man 3 were, is being the blake Spider-man. You'r power is three times stronger than you 
 were when you were red Spider-man. The other good thing (its not that good) is taking pictures.
 
  Beating Venom is imposible. Now matter what moves you do, he still fights back. His attacks are 
 very powerful.
  So, I do NOT recomend Spider-man 3 to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameslang
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 8, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3 Review
  
  + swinging through the city
  + large city map to explore
  + interesting re-mix to the movie story line
  + added villains
  + voices are good ( use of 
 actors from the movie )
  + kool new moves
  + loose ' GTA ' type feel to the interface
  
  - side missions are very repetitive
  - some side missions are pointless ( stolen fruit pie 
 )
  - wiiMote motion is not always accurate
  - ' bonus ' at the end of the game is not worth the effort
  - fighting becomes ' button mashing 
 ' ( it feels like you could do any motion with the wiiMote and fight )
  - graphics are weak
  - not long for dialogue to get repetitive and annoying
  - camera angles 
 are awkward at times which hinder / cost you a fight
  
  = Fun game but the repetitiveness and unresponsiveness makes it frustrating to play through and 
 finish the game. If you are a fan then you might enjoy it in spite of it's flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vixster181
Rating: 1.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  This is a waste of a good disk. The upside is that you will get more fun from looking at the shiny 
 side . Thats about it really, oh yeah, as an afterthought, the move you do to get you around the 
 corners of the buildings is quite nifty. i cant even list the bad points as there are too bloody 
 many. i hate the fact that even when you jump of the (much smaller) empire state building, your 
 spine does not break. i hate it that you cannot go into the sewers or the subway or the statue 
 of liberty. i hate it how you can be beaten up so easily. i hate the stupid web rodeo that is so 
 jittery. bloody bloody. why wont the spider freak just die. it is not fair. spiderman 2 had better 
 graphics, better control and a much better story. i couldnt be bothered to finish this it was so 
 dull. i have been completely put off spider man and have sold all of the other spider man games 
 except for numero 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto636
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 16, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  this game is alright but it seems like they could have done more and it seems like an unfinished 
 game the controls are bad at times but sometimes there ok and if u stay as da black spiderman u 
 collapse but on da ps3 version u stay like dat 4 most of da game and dere r some places u cant 
 go and da gameplay gets repitive da swinging is fun but some times he dosnt swing and all da people 
 look da same dis game is okay but if u ask me i think u should rent it and decide 4 ure self 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fremefreak
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 7, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the worst games i have ever laid my hands on, i regret the day my dad brought me 
 home this game, all it was at the time, was a $50 ticket to go to spiderman 3 in the movies, and 
 a free spiderman 3 game practically unfinished. The graphics were absolutly terrible and the acting 
 was horrid. When i fist turned it on, the game seemed like it would be a whole lot of fun, when 
 I got it going, i looked at it and said, hmm maybe this will be fun. I'll admit, the first 10 mins 
 of webslinging was fun. Then after I started to play the game, it really sucked. I set the difficulty 
 to Superhero and it still was easier than Elmo's Adventure. Doing a simple mission out of nowhere 
 was stupid because you had to swing all the way across the city which took about 10 minutes. When 
 you did a mission, you could carry a person in need across the city to the place they need to go, 
 sometimes you would carry mary jane, while you carried them, they looked like ragdolls or dead 
 people being stolen by spiderman. Overall, the game really sucked, i dont encourage anyone to buy 
 it, it was terrible. Don't make the wrong decision i did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vince_Dash
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is bad. The idea could have been good if the controls were not that awful. I mean the 
 controls are bad, really really bad. The web-swinging is impossible to control like in every other 
 Spider-Man games (except for Ultimate Spider-Man) . The first Boss Battle is versus The Green Goblin. 
 To beat him, you have to balance yourself on his board to get on the top with A. After that, you 
 do quick moves with your wiimote or nunchuk as indicated on the screen, but you dont have time 
 to react because its shown less than a second, if you did not have time, he kicks your butt. Ive 
 never beaten this first Boss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartWii
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so another Blockbuster hit mega expensive movie comes out and the movie game tie-in comes 
 in. Spiderman 2 brought an extremely high amount of cash at the box office and Spiderman 3 did 
 good but the movie ratings were bad..... This goes the same for the game. The main problems are 
 as follows:
  
  1. Too Short - the game can probably be beaten in 3-4 hours at the most.
  2. Graphics - the graphics are horrible at best, buildings come out of no where and the bridge 
 just disappears. 3. Story - if you haven't seen the movie you won't know what the hell is going, 
 the main parts of the movie come in a rush right at the last 30 min of the game while the rest 
 of it is just pointless power ranger style missions.
  4. Fighting - it feels so boring to just barely move the remote to bunch, no combination of nunchuck 
 whatsoever. 5. Level of Difficulty - even the hardest bosses won't take you more than 2 tries to 
 beat.
  6. City Missions - lamest excuses for missions, Spiderman wans't meant to deliver fruit pies.....
 
  
  SO IN TOTAL THERE ARE 5 CONS TO THE GAME.
  
  The good things are as follows.
  
  1. Swinging is sort of fun.
  2. Exploring the city is fun but too repetitive after a while.
 
  
  ONLY 2 PROS... IF YOU CAN CALL THEM PROS..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 19, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  The game has its good points, like the narrator who constantly gives tips in a funny way, but other 
 than that, it does'nt adapt well to the wii's controlls and functions nor does it provide a shred 
 of relevance to its Movie. The game is a disgrace to Spider Man 2, and is even harder than normall 
 with the horrible controlls. While the game itself can get exciting like facing harry for example, 
 it just does'nt have the essence that really wants to make you go back and play it again. Furthermore, 
 the new feature as the darker side of Spider is horrendus, your eye vision slowly but surely decreases 
 in sacrifice for strength... Well, i guess thats the only exception for it seeing how you cant 
 controll spideys emotions... It feels like the game has just grabbed a handfull of the action from 
 the previous spiderman games and thrown it into the recycling bin, but seeing how there won't be 
 spiderman 4, its safe to say that its ultimately a garbage basket... Im usually a gamer that gives 
 every game a chance, and i have with this one too, but in all honesty it blew it! Thats all i have 
 to say, and i really do NOT recommend this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheik_n_Zelda
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  http://www. projectcoe. com/nintendo/games/spider_man3. html? var1=sc3
  
  Usually when a game is built from the ground up for its target platform, it can only mean good 
 things in terms of the software taking great advantage of the hardware architecture. Unfortunately, 
 usually is the keyword there, as there are definite exceptions. Those culprits tend to be new releases 
 with a pretty license attached, especially for movies. Now this past summer, a blockbuster film 
 broke box office records, and it just so happens because of a certain Tobey McGuire reprising his 
 role as a certain nerdy superhero for the second time. In his third outing however, a friendly 
 alien symbiote decides to turn his Spidey suit black, and ultimately cause a lot of bad things 
 to happen.
  
  Spider-Man 3 has videogame adaptations, and the Wii version turns out to be the most unique of 
 the bunch. Too bad it's not exactly enjoyable. Let's start off on a more positive note though, 
 and swing into the controller mechanics. Both the Wii remote and nunchuk happen to control each 
 of Spider-Man's hands, right and left respectively. In order to send out a web line, a slight flick 
 with either unit and a press/hold of the B trigger or Z button do the trick. There's more to it 
 though, as the nunchuk's analog can manipulate Parker's direction in the air. It takes a while 
 to grasp the physics of it all, but it's really cool to mess around with once you do. It's impossible 
 to be as fancy as the movies, but it gets pretty close sometimes, especially with a nice sense 
 of speed and freedom of motion. Kudos to Vicarious Visions on that note. Sadly, a couple things 
 turned me the wrong way. One was the camera control being allocated to the nunchuk's tilt functionality, 
 which doesn't feel at all natural or work well. Two is crawling around buildings or jumping from 
 then, which during play isn't too bad, but feels uncomfortable.
  
  What Spidey does alongside web swinging, which is beating the snot out of his jealous adversaries, 
 doesn't exactly create excitement within. A majority of it is extends to Wii waggle, your basic 
 shaking the remote left and right. It does become more entertaining when you unlock new moves and 
 abilities, which reduce recycled combat, but it comes way too late. Even though the system is usually 
 pretty responsive, it's just not a lot of fun. It doesn't help that everybody repeats the same 
 one-liner crap, especially since most of it is just painful. I think I liked one piece of dialogue 
 that I heard. Boss battles aren't nearly as bad, since they all bring something kind of fresh to 
 the table, but once you learn the straightforward pattern, you'll win without a hitch. I only died 
 once against Shriek due to my own stupidity.
  
  On the audio side, Tobey and the rest of the VO crew really just fall flat. Triple J is the only 
 one that barely saves the production from being a total disaster. He doesn't have a whole lot to 
 say, which sucks, but he stays true to his character and is pretty funny. Bruce Campbell, the ring 
 announcer in the first movie, is another gem, like he has been. His sarcasm is impeccable, and 
 even though he doesn't deliver nearly as well as he has, it's something that helps distract you 
 from everything else that you'd rather not have enter your ears. Heck, even music during battle, 
 which is decent, just simply drops sometimes, similar to instances in Prince of Persia: Warrior 
 Within. It's just disappointing.
  
  What's most embarrassing is how Manhattan, Queens, and just about everything looks. There's nothing 
 to be happy about, except maybe a few decent character models. It's no excuse that every single 
 building, car, body of water, tree, etc, looks like something that could be done much better in 
 MS Paint with a good deal of effort. What happened to the textures? What happened to the water 
 that looks like a blob of gray paint? There's no reason for special effects to outdo the main graphics, 
 because they don't look half bad. Even cutscenes are nothing to gawk at, as the character designs 
 for them look like those pasty white department store mannequins that used to scare me as a child 
 because I thought they were always staring at me. Sadly enough, that's not the end of it. Frame 
 rate issues, clipping problems, and even clunky animations riddle this package. With everything 
 so low-poly and bottom-of-the-barrel in resolution, it's hard to imagine what went wrong, except 
 knowing this was extremely rushed.
  
  Ok, almost over, and if this sounds like a bash fest, it's not. It's not my fault the game turned 
 out like this. Now with this being the game translation of the immensely successful movie, you'd 
 expect there to be a nice connection to the latter's plot right? Wrong. It's probably generous 
 to say that one-fifth of the game actually surrounds the whole black suit and New Goblin/Venom/Sandman 
 conflict. Even worse is that I found more entertainment in pursuing the stories of Dr. Connors 
 in his lizard form, and Shriek/Morbius. The movie reenactment wasn't done well, and chances are 
 you'd be confused if you hadn't seen the flick previously. If nothing else, the game works more 
 like Spider-Man 2 with having gangs to tame and some challenges to complete if you feel inclined 
 to do so. They help add some longevity to this package.
  
  Spider-Man 3 in the overall sense is just a total letdown. There's so little to truly enjoy that 
 it pains me to think of the ignorant market that actually picked this up at full price. I rented 
 it through my online service, and am totally satisfied with my decision. Sure it's cool and all 
 to swing around the massive city, but when that's most of the fun to be had, there's a problem. 
 Combat isn't horrible, but it's completely uninspired, even with the upgrades and black suit. There 
 may be several scenarios that require gesturing with the Wii controllers, like removing your black 
 suit, which do help in a sense, but all the downfalls are simply too hard to ignore. Unless you're 
 one of the most hardcore Spidey fans who ever lived, rent this! Hopefully the upcoming Friend or 
 Foe will make up for this ball drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yomamathe4th
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 6, 2007 1:52 am PT
Review:  ok ima lay it out flat this game sucks and i meen this game is terrible and i meen damn bad and 
 im talkin sonic after the dreamcast bad im talkin it may be even worse than halo 2's single player 
 ending ok this game is not worth 50 dollars its not worth 40 dollars its not even worth 10 dollars.... maybe 
 9.99 but only if u really love spiderman but damn does this game suck ok on the good side lots 
 of villans and sort of cool webslinging but other than that damn!!!!!!!! i love spiderman and i 
 hate this game the graphics are horrendous and the gameplay is even worse ok please o please o 
 please o please do not buy this game save ur selfs just go buy zelda for christ sake 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sYorch
Rating: 4.3
Date: Aug 5, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  As of now, Spider-Man 3 might appear as a good game to play while we are waiting for the last Q 
 of this year which is coming with several amazing titles for every platform. Unfortunately we have 
 to proceed with caution if we want to buy Spider-Man 3 for Wii because it seems to be intended 
 for Spider-Man movies fans, previous game fans and Wii console beginners.
  
  Let me explain what may be considered before buying the game, I express myself using five sections 
 (a few lines each)
  
  The Content
  I would rate Spider-Man 3 to Every One (5+) and Cartoon Violence. This may be helpful at the time 
 of buying (making us think it twice) .
  
  The Controls
  Wii Remote and Nun chuck increase the game experience when used appropriately (Web Swinging) but 
 becomes frustrating when Spider-Man fights punching enemies using the controls in a bizarre way, 
 I think that it was forgotten that the main goal of the controls is interact in some kind of natural 
 way. Additionally, if you combine a weird way to punch enemies with a sound emitted by the remote 
 it becomes disgusting after a few hours of game play.
  
  The Graphics
  We already know that Wii Graphics are limited but Spider-Man 3 saved too much effort giving textures 
 to the Environment.
  
  The Storyline and the Open World
  I think it followed the line marked by its predecessors so if you enjoyed them you may find Spider-Man 
 3 good (Attention there is no evolution vs other Spider-Man Games) .
  
  Conclusion:
  In my opinion Spider-Man 3 is a previous titles style sequel for the Wii console considering the 
 last movie storyline. It does not take advantage of the nun chuck, the Wii Remote and the Graphics 
 Hardware and there is not any improvement considering the Previous Titles. You may find this game 
 almost as good/bad as the previous games and movies 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jemberley1000
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jul 22, 2007 10:15 pm PT
Review:  i bought the game expecting it to be one of the most amazing games i ever played and was let down 
 quick, graphics werent great, didnt follow the storyline... i just thought it was a huge let down. 
 I mean it was okay but not anywhere close to what it was made out to be. Theres was an skill tree 
 system in the game and that was probably the only thing that kept me going. But as far as games 
 go this one wasnt great at all. Sometimes the remote didnt even work for the swinging! I beg people 
 not to buy the game. Rent it if you want for a bit of fun but do not buy it and dont get your hopes 
 up about it either... bet it in less than a day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brand_3000lee
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 18, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 7/10 - The gameplay is pretty good, web swinging around the massive city with the wii-remote 
 is very fun. The action in the game is pretty dull and boring puch kick puch thats about it. The 
 game is pretty short it took me just 4 hours to beat the missions , there are 24 missions. There 
 is extra stuff to do but it's not exiting.
  
  Graphics 5/10 - The graphics are pretty terrible in this game. When you are swinging around the 
 city you will notice buildings that aren't rendered and poor graphics on cars and people. Every 
 time you beat a mission the graphics become laggy and terrible for about 15 seconds.
  
  Sound 8/10 - The sound isn't too bad, it has oringinal voice acting which is good, and some cool 
 music during the gameplay, but that's about it.
  
  Value 6/10 - There are only 24 Missions which can be done in 4 hours. If you aren't a fan of spider-man 
 or short games then this isn't for you.
  
  Tilt 7/10 - I had a pretty enjoyable experince playing spider-man 3 but i wish they added more, 
 and did it up a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smeghead83
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jul 12, 2007 3:30 am PT
Review:  What can i say... just using 3 words to sum this game up
  
  bad, awful, rubbish
  short, lame, crap
  waste of money
  
  No matter how you look at it this is a bad game, now 
 while the PS3/360 versions of Spider-man 3 are just graphicly hulked up versions of Spier-man 2.
 
  Here we have a truley awful game that a blind chimp with no arms could of done better at.
  
  Now keeping in mind there was no really product testing on this game... were there no competent 
 developers either? reach a certain distance or height in this game and it looks like you have arrived 
 in lego block city, with buildings losing all and any sense of realism as they lack even the basic 
 texturs.
  
  Now the only rediming quality of this game is the web slinging, using either the wii remote to 
 swing out with your right hand, and the nukchuk for your left it is quite cool to just swing about 
 in a city 2X bigger then in any other spidey game. but in a game with a story line this game, repetivie 
 and awful gameplay and graphics which arch back to the time of the N64, just do what i did. Get 
 yourself a copy of spider-man 2 or Ultimate Spiderman and enjoy a good spiderman game and experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newinhuman
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 6, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  he has moves like a cat being thrown, oh wait he's a spider
  no wait im spiderman
  after playing this game i developed my true hero's sense
  yes i climbed the empire state building
 
  yea i hung upside down for longer than anyone should
  oh and by the way i got bounce off enemies like a jack, once again, like a spider
  so maybe hes 
 not the strongest toughest thing around
  i did die a few times while beating those punks
  blame me, so i chose to go after a bunch of music lovers first
  the homeless just had that really 
 bad smell to them
  and then of course running after lizards made me feel all the better about being the neighbor hood 
 kinda guy
  humans you say
  ill save a few here and there
  oh you know the regular flipping cars over and pulling them out of garbage cans
  but for the 
 ones that bothered me
  they got some serious over the head slamming
  when i wanted to kep them eye level i just swung'm around a bit
  i dont like to talk much but 
 fortunately spidey does and i liked the humor
  whether your talkin smack about grandma
  chsing after the real super villians
  kicking a few homeless guys around
  taking pics
  or 
 just being your by getting where you gotta go with your infiinite webbing
  you'll be enchanted 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 4, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Spiderman on the wii sounds cool. But have it rushed and you get a train wreke like this poor cash 
 in. You can forget about the storey it seems who ever made this asumes you seen the movie. Cutseans 
 dont reveal much about the plot and the VO is so bad it ruins it. Whats even worse is sometimes 
 the sound will just slow down showing even more lazey deloupment. Also spiderman 3 dosent look 
 good at all. it looks like a bad game cube game. Lighting cuts in and out makeing people and things 
 look like they are flashing. Theres no excuse why this game should look so bad. Gameplay is as 
 brain dead and frustraiteing as it can get. Again the devleopers assumed something and that is 
 olny kids would buy this. You attack by just swing the wii mote and numchuck. Combat gets tiering 
 to quickly. It's also frustraiteing when you have so many foes on screen targeting dosent help 
 much and the game will just slow down. Every battel will boile down to the same run attack, run 
 away, then run back and attack some more. There are god of war like moments but they dont do much. 
 Swinging around the huge new york is ery akward. You swing the wii mote forwward and press B and 
 steer with the analog stick. This is made even worse with a cammra that fighs you every step of 
 the way and a chuging frameraite. Spiderman 3 on wii dose have something over the 360/ps3 version 
 and thats the black suite it actually plays more of a role makeing you stronger and haveing consqueinces. 
 But the 360/ps3 has it beat in terms of missions only half the game is here. There are a lot of 
 missions to take on here but conserting it's either a fetch questt or a bralwer it's not fun. Aviod 
 this cash in and waite ti lthe day when we get a spiderman game with care. Im so glade i only rented 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic3456
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 3, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  spiderman 3 was a great movie and this is a good movie tie-in game. The story is like a screwed 
 up version of the movie's plot with added villians like Morbius and the Lizard. The game play's 
 great and uses the wii remote really well. The graphics like to change as they look amazing at 
 one point and crappy at another point. Sound wise the music is the good, the voice acting isn't 
 bad, but they sound bored. The game is way too short only taking 6-7 hours to finish. My final 
 thoughts are that this is a great game just like Ultimate Spiderman with better gameplay with decent 
 graphics, but it's just as easy and it's even shorter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackspider101
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 1, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  VERY GOOD GAME. Very short that is the only problem. The first time it took me 4 hours to beat the 
 story line and 2 hours the next time. Very Crappy gang levels tho. The Only Two problems. It is expensive 
 two it should be like 30$ like resident evil. Very easy bosses I like mean green fighting machine 
 bosses meaning kinda hard. I would rather get it for the PS3 two tell you the truth This is probably 
 my second favorite one in the series. Very good upgrades tho and I love the black suit. I give Spider-man 
 3 *** and a half stars. Remember this is only my second review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Np_Pro
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 23, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Spiderman 3 has the good, the bad, and the funny. The good is the web swinging and the black suit. 
 The bad is the combat and the story/side missions. The funny is the glitches and pedestrians. Now 
 lets examine each section in greater detail. Swinging rocks, plain and simple. Flicking the wiimote/nunchuk 
 and having left and right hands really helps to immerse you in the game. It is now much easier 
 to, say, turn into a narrow alley because you can aim your web with greater percision. It is also 
 easy (and cool looking) to start running on a wall after swinging, and then start swinging again. 
 The problem is stopping. You almost always overshoot your target when you jump off your line, and 
 if you grab onto a building you end up running every whichway. The black suit is a cool version 
 of you, and is very useful. If you start losing health, you can use it to boost you HP and improve 
 your comabt. Also, it looks cooler. Now the bad. Combat is like button mashing that hurts you wrists; 
 you flick back and forth, back and forth. Moves are much easier to use in this game, however. No 
 longer is there a string of button combos. Instead, you have vaults and arieal attacks (etc.) and 
 you add new moves to those categorys. That works. But the fighting gets old fast. Also, the spidey 
 sense doesn't really work. It isn't triggered for basic attacks, so you get hit a lot. The attacks 
 it does work on, however, you can see coming from a mile away and dodge manually, so its kind of 
 a useless feature. The missions in the story are really stupid. Isn't this game supposed to be 
 about Venom and Sandman? There are a total of about 2 missions relating to both of them; a battle 
 with Sandman in the subway and the final fight. However, there are about 10 levels involving the 
 Lizard. Also, you can't really choose which storyline to follow, as promised. There are a couple 
 places you can do 1 of 2 missions, but really, I expected more. Morbius rocks, however. The first 
 fight with him has a certain feal that is awesome. Maybe I just like vampires too much. The side 
 missions are repetitive; rescuing kidnapping victims (how many psychics are there?) beating up 
 thugs, saving people from electric barriers and laughing gas (wtf?) etc. Also, one of the generic 
 missions involves a fire; however, you never enter the flaming building. The gang system works, 
 but you could play the game without bothering with it. Now my favorite part; the funny. There are 
 so many glitches in this game that make it worthwhile to play it. For example, one time I dropped 
 a man off where I was supposed to, and next thing I know he's standing on top of me. I could swing 
 and fight and he was still there! Eventually he went away, but it was funny while it lasted. The 
 peds are also amusing. They all say the same lines (you hear the same words over and over in 5 
 different voices) but clearly these people didn't bother with genders. 75% of the time I returned 
 a purse it was to a guy! Another thing about this game; it looks cool. Just being Spiderman leads 
 to many cool scenarios. Swinging down and scooping health off of an ambulance by accident, for 
 example, or vaulting while the camera makes it look like you're kicking off of a wall and then 
 attacking. I like this game a lot. Is it worth buying, no. Very little replay value. Rent it, definitely. 
 Play through it and see what you think. The combat and controls are far from perfect, but the swinging 
 and the FEEL of the game make it worthwhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithguy1234
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 22, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3 for the Wii tries to create an innovative experience that makes you feel like your 
 the Web Slinger himself but at one point the developers got lazy and created a short, mediocre 
 adventure that barley puts the movie together at all.
  
  You'll start out in a tutorial level in a burning building that teaches you how to fight and other 
 stuff that just doesn't work well on the Wii. Fighting is ridiculously boring that is also very 
 repetitive requiring you to only swing the Wii-mote back and forth, doing the same combo over and 
 over, only to finish up pressing the A button for a strong attack. The combo starts off at the 
 beginning with only 3 hit and as you progress you spend your Hero Points to get it up to a 5 hit 
 combo.
  
  Hero Points are your source of money-ish type currency that you get from completing missions or 
 helping the people of New York. You use them to upgrade your your moves to make you do stuff like 
 web swing faster, have stronger webbing, or give you different moves. They are very expensive but 
 you can pretty much beat the game with only the combo upgrades and everything else is there in 
 case you don't get bored with your 4 to 5 hour game. And you buy them all from a menu in the pause 
 screen, so the fun of traveling to the store, or anywhere else, is no longer there.
  
  Taking these powers out into the city is probably the best part of the game. Swinging with the 
 Wii-mote and Nunchuk is easy (after you get the hang of it) and very fun to do. By flicking the 
 Wii-mote/Nunchuk in a direction and pressing B/Z spider man will use his Left or right hand (depending 
 on what hand you use) in a direction of the nearest building and go flying into the air.
  
  During your time swinging you encounter some of the dumbest, and least thought out random missions 
 I have ever played. Featuring things like the polices fruit pies being stolen, or a kidnapping 
 only to find the trailer of a diesel being out on the sidewalk for yours, and everybody else, viewing 
 pleasure with a guy inside that you have to deliver to an ambulance.
  
  What I found strange about the sound in this game is that Tobey Maguire sounds either like he is 
 on drugs, or that he only got 3 hours of sleep in a week, because he sounds very lazy when he's 
 Spider-Man and this just made me giggle. Even when he is trying to be mean in the black suit. Oh, 
 and last time I checked, New York was an American state. But in this game it is over run by immigrants 
 with multiple voices on the same 8 character models in the game.
  
  Graphics wise, the game fails at that too. Standing on top of the Empire State, or any decently 
 high building, makes all the other buildings lose there windows and make them look like big boxes, 
 while the character models look pretty good, this combination isn't very with any game.
  
  Spider-Man 3 tries to do something different on the Wii but practically fails at everything but 
 the web slinging. The 5 hour story, mediocre graphics, and lame gameplay, tied in with a stupid 
 story that doesn't even tie in the story well, will make gamers cry at how bad it is, but only 
 the hardcore Spider-Man fans will love this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 20, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  Spiderman three is one of those games that you borrow not buy. NOT EVEN RENT. When you borrow it 
 it is free, and that is all it is worth. Nothing. It is a disappointment and a letdown. It is not 
 spider man the graphics are so simple it looks like spidercube vs sand thing. The graphics are 
 cubular and rough, unlike PS3. PS3 there are moments where you are peter parker. NOT IN WII! I 
 am glad I did not buy this game, I reccomend buying it for Xbox 360 or PS3 not Wii. Please. The 
 wii controls were frustrating and repetitive. Oh no another bag guy... just shake my controller 
 THE END. It is not as good as the second one there is not as many new things, and it is not much 
 of a game. with 50 bucks buy Wario ware or Zelda, MONKEY BALL.... But not this.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iceman22n86
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 19, 2007 11:49 pm PT
Review:  I realize that Gamespot gave this version a poor rating because of the graphics and controls, but 
 they're dead wrong. Sure the graphics are extremely outdated compared to everything else on the 
 market, but once you get used to the delay of the motion-sensing controls you'll be swinging and 
 chaining together combos like no other. The game as a whole is fairly average to above average 
 as far as gameplay is concerned. There's the main plot which is a sequence of linear missions that 
 you are required to complete in order to complete the game, and then there are crime patrols. These 
 consist of performing a number of tasks for the police in order to take down 4 different gangs 
 that plague New York City. On the map you'll see the icons of each gang, and how strong they're 
 territories are suggested by how many rings are around their turf. From time to time you'll see 
 different gangs take over police territories and vice versa. The only real way to sway the momentum 
 back in the favor of the law is to intervene as Spider-Man. Successfully completing a crime patrol 
 will either give that territory back to the police, or make their one of their already existing 
 turfs more powerful so that they may defend it on their own.
  
  The more missions and objectives you complete, the more experience you'll obtain and eventually 
 get to spend on hero upgrades. This gives the game a sort of 1 player MMORPG type feel. Once you 
 learn Spidey's basic maneuvers through the main storyline, you'll be able to spend EXP points on 
 additional upgrades making you faster, stronger, able to strike with more combos, etc. Basically 
 you attack by swinging the remote left and right along with the A button for a powerful finishing 
 attack at the end of each combo chain you decide to piece together. The more hits you deal without 
 getting hit yourself, the more exp you'll gain also. Don't get me wrong, the game is not without 
 it's doubts. I don't know if it's just the Wii version, but Spider-Man 3 is, at times, quite glitchy 
 and unresponsive. The Wii's graphical capabilities sometimes limit and slow down the action, but 
 these become almost trivial once you learn the secret. SWINGING WITH THE WII REMOTES IS AWESOME!!
 
  
  It may take you some time to get used to the controls but be patient and i promise it will pay 
 off. Especially the swinging which is particularly exhilarating after you get the hang of it. Don't 
 believe the first thing you hear ever. Always get a couple of more opinions, then get your own 
 by doing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uthrak
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jun 19, 2007 6:05 am PT
Review:  At first it didn't look so bad but after 15 min i understood the game was a complete disaster! 
 I tried really hard to play this game but i could only stand 1 hour. It's graphics are worse than 
 ps2 graphics the voices terrible and the gameplay made the game more difficult than funny. The side 
 missions were boring and the main missions didtn't have a logical order. In conclusion i don't suggest 
 you buy this game you should rent it first. But it doesn't worth the money!! As it seems the web-slinger 
 is heading towards distraction at the field of computer games. In my opinion the disiners sould 
 have pay more attention on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto703
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jun 17, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is tiring. The gameplay for Wii is just like our little pirate game. It will wear you 
 out considering how many times you will have to fight off bad guys. That means it is repetitive 
 too. The swinging is the best part part of the game but you can't control where you swing. The 
 swinging and fighting are executed poorly. At least the quick time events work better than Pirates 
 of the Carribean. The graphics are bad. When you are high in the air textures dissipear. The sound 
 is nothing special. The game is short and I really reccomend not even trying this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpenceTheThug
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 17, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is not as bad as everybody says. The controls take a little getting used to, but once 
 you get 'em down they're not that hard to use. After reading GameSpot's review I decided to check 
 out the game because swinging around the city looked like fun, but the glamour of web-slinging 
 wore off quickly. Although swinging around the city was monotonous, the game offered more than 
 I thought it would after reading people's reviews. The graphics aren't very good, but gameplay 
 is not bad. A new aspect that has been added is gangs. Gangs control a certain percent of the city, 
 as well as the police. You have to go on patrols in order to shut down gangs and give more control 
 to the police. All in all, this game was better than expected, but don't take my word for it, go 
 rent it and find out for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smokenem
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jun 15, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  The wii version of the game just doesn't cut it. The controls, especially when swinging then trying 
 to run up a wall, always forces you to run down the wall instead. It's difficult to master combat 
 as well as there is too much movement with the controllers. It adds many of the characters from 
 the comic books that probably aren't in the movie, which gives fans a deeper story. Considering 
 that it's the third in it's series, besides Ultimate Spiderman, it does improve over the last two 
 in that you can unleash a can of whoop with the black suit, but I recommend that if you really 
 want to play it, rent it and take it back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterchief463
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jun 14, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  let's start the review then.
  
  the game looked promissing but it wasn't .
  efter i played the game i was disapointed it wasn't worth my money and here is why.
  
  the 
 graphic really aren't that great. The buildings lose there texture from
  a distance and the civilians are really bad compared with spiderman2
  the controls aren't that 
 promising either you attack by simply swinging the wii mote from the left to right and vice versa 
 swinging on the other hand is fun and that's the only good thing about the game.
  
  The story seems to be only there to make sense in what you are doing and its beat this guy up then 
 beat the other guy up.
  
  the side missions you take are really the same over and over again
  and it's really all about 
 fruit pies (the side missions)
  
  then if you find this review bad then look a the game and decide again
  
  this was my short 
 review . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LAZZOR
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jun 12, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  Another Spidey flick another Spidey game. It's just the way things are but now it's on the Wii (insert 
 dramatic music here) . That's right webheads Activision once again brings us a Spider-Man game but 
 wait... my spidey sense is tingling. It's telling me this game sucks.
  
  Yup unlike the goodness that was Spider-Man 2 and Ultimate Spider-Man Acitivison unloads Spider-Man 
 3 onto the masses who always fall victim to the movie tie-ins that plague consoles everywhere. 
 Spider-Man 3 features an ugly rendition of New York City. Allows you to swing by using the Wii 
 remote and nunchuk which can be a hassle at times. Also like the film of the same name the big 
 selling point is the inclusion of Venom and the black suit (insert dramatic music here) . That'd 
 be cool if this game didn't look like a late PS1 game. It's that bad. I know some people refer 
 to the Wii as a suped up Gamecube well this game looks like a turd from said Gamecube. The only 
 good side is that the actors do voice overs for there characters even if it is a pathetic attempt 
 at it and Bruce Campell is there to give you intructions. Skip it. Seriously unless you have to 
 own every single Spider-Man game in existance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nerv001
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 11, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  With Spider-man 3 the movie out, we are also given a dose of Spider-man on every major console 
 and portable gaming system. While the Wii version pales in comparison to the Xbox 360 and PS3 versions 
 and especially to the DS version, theres still quite a bit to enjoy if youre a Wii owner simply 
 looking for a Spider-man fix. The control scheme when swinging is one of the few highlights of 
 the game, and for some this may be just enough to purchase it. The fighting, as shaky and often 
 non responsive as it is, is not as awful as many make it out to be. The storyline is a major disappointment 
 here, but I know many of you arent looking for the story, only another free-roaming, Bruce Campbell 
 driven, fast paced swinging action adventure. Thats basically what youll get, only with a few 
 catches. For example, the texturing is so bad that a building will often load in front of your 
 eyes, (or not at all) and the textures and details seem to take the day off in this installment. 
 Also, the camera is so God-awful that it seems the makers of this game attempted for it to be a 
 nuisance and sometimes impossible to work with. But even with these nuisances, it truly is a fun 
 Spider-Man game for those Nintendo fans itching to jump off a skyscraper or two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PBRulez
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 9, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot is right in all of it's criticisms: The plot is slightly disjointed, the graphics terrible 
 by modern standards and the fighting and camera annoying. However, I believe that none of this 
 detracts from what is otherwise a great Spidey game. Graphics can be bad: If you own a Wii, you're 
 standards aren't excruciatingly high. The fighting is annoying, but once you get used to it, you 
 barely notice it. The storyline is easy to follow, and while it skips over most of the movie's 
 plot, the black suit storyline threads it all together.
  
  Web swinging with the Wii-mote is slightly overrated- it's fun, but not ground breaking. I hope 
 they include it in future Spidey games. The black suit really shakes up the gaming experience; 
 it's a nice new touch to a game that's otherwise pretty much identical to Spidey 2. All in all, 
 Spidey 3 is a good game, worth at least a rental by any Spider-Man fan, and definetly a buy if 
 you're loaded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apboyer
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jun 8, 2007 3:55 am PT
Review:  Movie games are generally something that reviewers will tell you to avoid. But the idea of playing 
 as Spider-Man has always been appealing. Swinging around New York City, hanging baddies from street 
 lamps, fun stuff right? This was the case for Spider-Man 2. While not a perfect game by any means... it 
 was alot of fun in alowing you to swing throughout New York city pretty much freely. And while 
 combat was pretty basic you could execute some fun combos including one that left your enemies 
 suspended upside down from a web while you beat the crap out of them like pinatas. So when I heard 
 that Spider-Man 3 was coming for the Wii I was pretty excited. When I heard that the Wiimote and 
 Nunchuck would be used as Spidey's webshooters, I was even more excited. When I got a 10 dollar 
 off coupon at Burger King... I got so excited I rushed off to Toys R Us and bought the game... blindly. 
 Now, I think I may be making a trip to gamestop soon. What happened?! First things first. This 
 game is fugly. I didn't expect the game to be on par with the 360 or PS3 versions by any means 
 but when you boot up the game and your friend says, that doesn't look good you know there's a problem.
 
  
  But I bought a Wii... I don't care about graphics .... well lets just say the gameplay doesn't do 
 much to redeem itself. The best thing about the game would have to be webslinging. You use the 
 nunchuck and wiimote to shoot webs. However... this is flawed and for the most part you'll find 
 yourself careening into buildings. You'd expect that if you shot a web with your left hand out 
 toward the left it would cling to a building on your left.... WHY AM I SWINGING TOWARD THE RIGHT?!?
 
  
  COMBAT: Eww. Combat consists of... remote wiggling. Yep... they come up with the brilliant idea of 
 using the remotes as your webshooters but when it comes to combat you're stuck waving your wrist 
 around as your character punches faceless baddies. And what's worse is that your combat options 
 are so limited. He's Spider-Man for crying out loud... shouldn't webbing be more implemented into 
 his combat? The end result is tired arms and boring fighting. Sound: Music is decent at times. 
 But voice overs sound tired or horribly overacted. It's also insanely glitchy. After completing 
 a mission there's usually dead silence for about 3 minutes before you hear voices and music again. 
 On top of that certain characters will speak with voices that don't fit their appearance at all. 
 Oh and expect to hear the same cheesy one liners over and over again. Difficulty: For the most 
 part the game is very easy. Except when you get to the final showdown. First you fight a short 
 little battle with Sandman. After that you're face to face with Venom racing the clock because 
 MJ is suspended from a web in a taxi cab about to fall. Harry shows up to help save her but for 
 some reason decides to wait until you kick Venom around a bit. Needless to say it took me several 
 hours to defeat Venom before MJ fell to her death. When I finally did this... I found myself battling 
 Sandman again... WAIT didn't he just blow up?! After beating him yet again you find yourself.... FIGHTING 
 VENOM AGAIN?!?! The only good news this time is... you're not racing the clock. And then... that's 
 it. The game is over pretty quickly. I guess the developers thought that if the game is gonna be 
 short they might as well make it go from incredibly easy to (literally) painfully difficult. Overall: 
 After the movie storyline is completed there's still plenty of stuff to do in the game. But God 
 help you if you can find any reason to do any of it. Gang missions are repetitive and boring. Each 
 gang has some strange quirk or funny accent and usually like to either put bombs on the roofs of 
 buildings or lock innocent people in dumpsters or vans. And fighting the gang members just isn't 
 fun when your combat is so limited. No, after defeating Venom for the second and final time you'll 
 just find yourself with sore arms and the desire to take this game in to your local game trader. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nelrazzaz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 3, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  This games game play was amazing but the movie was horrible. If they made the game the movie, then 
 it would have been much better. Over all the game was pretty easy but once you get to 50% in the 
 game it becomes challenging. You have to fight off criminals and you have to get rid of all the 
 gangs in New York. This game was really easy for me to play because I figured out all the controls 
 in less then 5-10 minutes because the begining of the game basiclly tells you how to play. This 
 game had awseom graphics but it was basically the same as the other two games. If you want to use 
 the map you have to get used to it first because in the beginning it iskind of hard to understand. 
 Overall I liked this game a lot and I giving it a great review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryder123
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 30, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - At first this game is pretty fun but it kinda gets boring fast. The controls aren't 
 that good, exept for the swinging, on the wii-mote you hold B and shoot out your hand just like 
 Spider-Man would, to shoot out your other hand on the nunchuck you do the same thing except hold 
 Z. You can steer yourself around the buildings with the analog stick on the nunchuck while your 
 swinging. The combat just uses simple gestures of the remote and nunchuck, and the more you fight 
 the more hero points you get, which are used for buying new fighting moves. You get the blacksuit 
 very early in the game and you can use it whenever you want which is a plus. With the blacksuit 
 you get buffer and stronger plus you can swing faster. The game is fun while it lasts but the story 
 is way too short.
  
  Graphics - The graphics could have been better, and I really think Treyarch should have done the 
 Wii version. The people don't really look good, only Spider-Man and the other villians seem to 
 look good. You can't see through the windows of cars like Treyarch versions either. And when you 
 look at distant buildings, all the windows and other details seem to have dissapeared until you 
 get closer. Overall the graphics could have been better.
  
  Sound - The sound of the city (cars, peds, etc.) are okay but there is the constant annoyance of 
 pedestrians saying things like Spider-man sucks and then Spidey replys with an answer that makes 
 no sense like I'm glad your here, now I don't have to hesitate . The music is good but sometimes 
 it just cuts off at random points. The fighting sounds are okay too.
  
  Replay Value - The replay value in this game is actually pretty good. Doing things like taking 
 all the villian photos, doing all the races, gang territories/ crime patrol, and finding all the 
 spidey emblems and meterite fragments will keep you busy for a while.
  
  Overall this game is okay, but not worth the full $60, maybe $20 or $30. You can probably even 
 finish the main story during a rental. But if you really like Spider-Man just wait till it gets 
 cheaper then buy it, but if you have the choice get the PC, PS3, or 360 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuicuneX
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 29, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  At first, I saw Spider-Man 3 and thought Eh, doesn't look half bad. I think I'll get it. Maybe 
 it was the fact that I had just seen the movie. Maybe it was just that I had one Wii game. Either 
 way, I bought it. I went home popped it in, and started playing. I was pretty imppressed by the 
 cutscene before the opening level. The graphics were pretty good. Along with the good graphics 
 came excellent voice-overs from the various stars of the Spider-Man film. When I first started 
 fighting guys, it took me only a few minutes to get down the various shakes and button pressing 
 you need to do to attack. Afterwards, came my favorite part of the game. Learning how to swing. 
 By flicking either the Wii remote or the Nunchuck, (just like Spider-man! :P) you can swing from 
 building to building. You can also twist the Wii remote to shoot at a different angle. By doing 
 so, you can create your own unique swinging style. Then came the missions. They were entertaining 
 at first, but the repetitive gang beating got old after awhile. Some of the moves you can unlock 
 are great! For instance, the Web Rodeo, you spray them with webbing, and then swing the Wii remote 
 around in the air. You can knock down other enemies, and throw one. Other than some creative moves, 
 the combat system consists of shaking the Wii remote back and forth repeatedly. Sure the fighting's 
 a downer, but the swinging through New York (I think) more than makes up for that. If you're not 
 too sure about the game, rent it first. I absolutley think this game was worth the $45 I paid for 
 it. Give it a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiwillstand
Rating: 8
Date: May 9, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3 for Wii is an excellent game. It's got intuitive controls that'll make you feel like 
 Spider-Man, it's got great sound, some intense action, a large city, and incredible graphics! Now 
 it has all these amazing attributes, but it also has a couple flaws. For one, the gameplay is too 
 short. The most hardcore gamer could probably beat the game within a day or two, but it still provides 
 some good gamepaly afterwards. There isn't enough story devlopment, and not enough villains! This 
 game could've obviously been better, but the gameplay, graphics, controls, and environments make 
 up for that.
  
  The game follows the plot of the movie. Spider-Man is pitted against Harry Osborn/New Goblin, Flint 
 Marko/Sandman, and Eddie Brock/Venom. While struggling with these new villains, Peter Parker/Spider-Man 
 must also struggle with his social life with his friends and family, especially Mary-Jane Watson. 
 Soon Spider-Man is granted the incredible powers given by a newfound alien sybiote, but he can 
 easily be consumed by this power. With this power, Spider-Man fights off multiple gangs and villains, 
 and must face the darkness within.
  
  Spider-Man 3 for Wii is a game with grat aspects and a few flaws, but is definitly worth to pick 
 up! Swing by your local seller, pick up Spider-Man 3 for Wii, and know what it feels like to be 
 SPIDER-MAN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7arek
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 28, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  So, I recently finished playing Spider-man 3 on my Wii, and after reading Gamespots review, I 
 wasnt expecting anything good in that game, and with that mentality I was surprised that I had 
 a bit of fun in it. First, lets get to the misses in the game. Right off the hop youll be swinging, 
 and jumping and basically doing all the things that makes Spider-man fun, but since its the Wii, 
 theres some major problems with the graphics. If you look at the buildings from a distance youll 
 notice that they just look like randomly colored blocks. Of course, as you get closer you see the 
 detail of the windows and ledges form. However, I actually found a building that remained a block, 
 and there were no windows, or any detail in it at all. Also, as you progress through the missions, 
 youll encounter some cool parts, like the Green Goblin#2, Sandman, and Dr. Conor. But sadly, in 
 between these fun moments, theres brutally repetitive fights with all sorts of thugs, gang members, 
 and even giant lizards. It gets very boring, very quickly. Alright, now that I got those out of 
 the way, lets talk about the gameplay. Its good, very good actually, this is definitely my biggest 
 plus about the game. Let me explain, to swing you have to hold down either the Z button or the 
 B button and flick either the Wii-mote or the Nunchuk, this will allow you to swing with your left 
 and right hand. Also, to fight enemies you can use the A button, or you can move the Wii-mote back 
 and forth, you can also do some other sweet web tricks with other hand motions. All these controls 
 feel very responsive, and theyre a very good reason to check out this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowknight92
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 27, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3 for the Wii is a fun game at best, but with many graphical errors, and some glitchy 
 bugs, it makes it much less enjoyable. Some of these bugs are also very anoying. For example, after 
 finishing a mission and winning it, i suddenly failed the mission for an unkown reason and had 
 to do it again. Also, sometimes the bulidng textures will just disapear. While it does have something 
 to do with the movie, the plot seems like it was mashed together with various things, and stamped 
 as acceptable. It isn't though. I am almost haflway through the game and I havn't even met the 
 sandman yet. While the combat can be fun in the game, sometimes it is hard to do. Most moves are 
 easy to pull off, but sometimes they just don't work. And when your fighting multiple eneimes, 
 they start to move really strangly, almost in a pixelated type movement. While the game is fun, 
 and is probably worth a rental, and web-swinging around is a blast, Spider Man 3 for the Wii is 
 a huge disapointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaveline
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 26, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  hey guys i gust got the black suit the good:
  
  the game is awesome at first i didnt like it (A. K. A i played it at EBgames) but when i rented it 
 on may 26 it was amaizing i dont kno why gamespot gave it a 4.7 , over all it's fun the combat 
 is ok swinging is sooo much fun the graphics need to be inproved just a little bit the story is 
 good but iam only at lizard now black suit gameplay is totaly different to turn into the black 
 suit press left on the D-pad to returne back to normal press it again the bad: CAMERA ANGLES SUCK 
 BALLS CAMERA ANGLES ARE HORRIBLE THE OTHER BAD NEWS THERE ARE GLITCHES IN THE GAME I MEAN WHAT 
 THE HELL WERE ACTIVISION DOING U BETTER FIX THE CAMERA ACTIVISION! OR YOULL GET YOUR A** KICKED 
 BUT A MOTHER F*****
  
  
  
  spiderman 3 the game get's a 9.7 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yami14
Rating: 5.2
Date: May 26, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS VERY FUN BUT WAY TO EASY I WANTED TO GAME TO BE LONGER!! BUT NO THE STUPID PPL SAID 
 FOR THE WII TO BE SHORTER BUT IT IS FUN TO PLAY ON THE WII LIKE SWINGING THE REMOTE O WELL THEY 
 BETTER MAKE IT NEXT TIME!! ALSO THE GRAPHICS WERE AWSOME!! ALSO THEY MAKE ALL THE BOSSES WAY TO 
 EASY THE ONLY HARD BOSS IS VENOMN I ALSO WISH THERE WERE MORE BOSSES LIKE MYSTERIO , SCROPION, 
 AND RHINO ALSO I WISH WE COULD HAVE FACED THE GREEN GOBLIN MORE TIMES !aNTHOER THING IS THAT THE 
 STORY LINE COULD HAVE BEEN WAY BETTER THEN IT WAS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colborn1000
Rating: 3.1
Date: May 23, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  I think i speak for us all when i say WHAT THE HELL?! this game sucks. period. the graphics look 
 like the first cube graphics, the controls are sloppy (u can stand on top of a building and wonder 
 where the hell the building textures went.) the game sort of follows the story. sort of. It seems 
 they worked too much on the spiderman costume and not enough on anything else. And it doesn't even 
 look that great. the 2 coolest things are: voice acting from the actual actors from the movie and 
 the swinging controls are preety cool. some of us waited for this game and it sucks ass! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldBlaze_001
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jun 14, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  I'm sorry, but I thought this game was horrible. Vicarious Visions killed what Treyarch's Spider-Man 
 2 built. Most of the mechanics are gone like wall sprinting, sprinting, Web Hanger (what a shame.) , 
 etc. I'll keep this review short, though. Spider-Man 3 for the Wii isn't as bad as Gamespot says 
 though. I will admit, the graphics are horrible, the game is glitchy, and the gameplay is broken 
 (Come on, swinging the Wii Remote and pressing A is the best they could come up with?) , it surely 
 isn't a 4.7. I don't think the textures disappeared (much) , and I don't think it's that ugly. However, 
 I agree that the storylines were butchered and short, and that the combat was lame. Next time, 
 though, Treyarch should make the console Spider-Man games and V. V. should make handhelds (I heard 
 the V. V. DS Spider-Man was good.) Overall, this game was okay. The swinging was fun and all, but 
 that's really it. A game can't be a good game by one fun thing.
  ... Actually, upon further inspection, this game actually does deserve close to a 4.7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GCrocksPS
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 22, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  The first thing you notice about this game is the appalling (for the wii especially) graphics. 
 That guy in the helicopter looks as if he's been made out of lego bricks. The buildings look like 
 blocks when you get too far away and the people you fight never look any different from each of 
 the other gang members. The pedestrians act like they have lockjaw and when people do move their 
 lips it looks like a beaver with a bad case of toothache. It's that bad. HOWEVER, out with the 
 bad, for the mo, and in with the good (what little there is) . Possibly the element of size comes 
 across as a good thing, although when you're trying to protect a police force from an attacking 
 gang and it reads, on your spidey marker, 4569 miles, it marres the game. It never takes very long 
 to reach 4000 mile markers, oh say about... five minutes, depending on whether you remote goes funny 
 and spidey decide to throw himself against a brick wall, which warrants a 'what the ---- are you 
 doing?' from you. The place feels realistic-trees look real, cars look more real than last time 
 (although there appears to be an abbundance of drunk drivers in this game) , and when spidey swings, 
 the graphics actually improve. For about three seconds. I'm cautioning this game as official spidey 
 merchandise, as it says on the title screen. It doesn't feel much like the film. The plot of the 
 game strays too far from the film, which the first or second games rarely did, and especially not 
 at regular intervals. Don't get me wrong, fighting Morbius and Shriek was fun, but the repetitive 
 acting in THAT little battle got me so annoyed I culd barely be bothered to finish the game. The 
 first time picking up the remote is always the worst. It doesn't feel right at first, pressing 
 b or z and then flicking the remote. After a while (an hour or so, give or take) , it feels better, 
 until you swing away without a care in the world. The combo system is slask. You can't hang people 
 from lampposts, you can't even swing from lampposts, and the only combos you get are flicks of 
 the remote and then a press of the A button. It's easy to do, but it's boring as hell. No yoyo 
 spider from the first game, no real web rodeo (it doesn't work quite as well in this game, especially 
 with the controller, although you'd think it would) , and, seriously, no replay value. There's no 
 daily bugle, MJ, or pizza missions to complete, no skyscraper tokens, no secret hideouts which 
 you used to randomly enter to pick a fight, and really no reason to leap off that tallest building 
 in NY. He doesn't die when he hits the ground anyway. I'm disappointed with this game. Really disappointed. 
 It could have been better. Better graphics, better story, better gameplay, better combo system. 
 I've played the xbox 360 version of this game, and it's not much better than this one. If they 
 make another movie to game spidey, it better have a running time of more than my measly six and 
 half hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GanonBuRAP
Rating: 2.4
Date: May 21, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  First off, gameplay. Terrible. The wii controls allow for some moderately fun BASIC swinging, but 
 all the fun of stringing together combinations of swinging maneuvars like for example; Swing, swing, 
 web zip, wall run, jump, wall run, jump, wall run, jump, slide on all, jump off, swing, loop, land, 
 beat up baddies.. all that is gone. You can do most of it by one by one at a time, but combining 
 it all together is quite impossible because of how the controls work. (also, you can't loop in 
 this game at all.)
  
  Camera system sucks. Another fun feature from spidey2 was the free roam camera that you can move 
 during combat, while swinging, while running, while doing anything. It felt great. In sm3 you can 
 ONLY move the camera when you are completely still. If your fighting or swinging, your stuck with 
 the angle you have. Seems like a small thing, but it makes the whole game feel a lor more claustrophoebic.
 
  
  Speaking of minor details left out of gameplay... sprinting is now completely taken out. Spidey 
 has 2 modes... walk, and jog. No sprinting. Feels slow, sluggish, and very unlike the swift moving 
 spiderman. Again, seems like a minor thing but it takes it's toll.
  
  Random crimes are out. No more swinging by, hearing someone cry out for spiderman and swooping 
 in to save the day like the classic hero himself. None of that. The police radio you, you click 
 the '-' button and the game will LOAD a mission. That's right; not only are there NO random crimes, 
 each crime has to LOAD UP. These crimes are few and far between and not at all fun to do because 
 of the poor combat system. Poor. Combat. System. I can't even describe it. It's just unresponsive 
 random crap. No real combos.. just waving the wii remote and watching what happens.
  
  Graphics. Wow. Probably i would say these are REALLY good PS1 graphics. They are down right terrible 
 for today's level of visual appeal. I mean it doesn't even feel like your in a city. It's like 
 your in a 3 year old's crayon drawing of NYC. Buildings don't have ANY detail or texture to them 
 unless your under 200 feet away from them. Thats right, unless your swinging at like street level, 
 buildings don't have bricks, windows or texture. They're just box shaped pixels. It's pretty disgusting.
 
  
  Sound isn't terrible. There is really only one sound track played OVER AND OVER AND OVER again 
 when you get into a fight. It's taken out of the movie. Giving sound 6/10 was very leniant.... When 
 your swinging, it's dead silent. When you start fighting a gang... the same music as the other 100000 
 times plays.
  
  Again, with everything above said, the overall value of this game is just bad. It's a watered down 
 version of the 360/PS3 versions, which aren't even that good to begin with. I finished this game 
 in 6 hours. That uncludes TWO hours of swinging around the atrocious city and having some fun with 
 the black suit which really doesn't make you too much stronger than the red suit. And get this; 
 if you upgrade your red suit right, by the end of the game it will be just as good as the black 
 suit if not better. Save yourself 70 bucks and don't bother with this game.
  
  2.4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Best_yet22
Rating: 1.4
Date: May 21, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  I cant beleive I spent money on this, all I can say is, BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
 BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD
  
  Terrible
  
  Abysmal
  
  mediocre
  
  Dont play it, if you want Wii laziness this is it at its best (worse?) This game 
 is just a diassapointment to life, and was boasted like god. A new low for movie gamess, caught 
 up in just trying to sell a franchise 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doubledareus
Rating: 1.1
Date: May 20, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! DON'T 
 BUY THIS GAME!!! DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! DON'T BUY 
 THIS GAME!!! DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! THANKS VICARIOUS VISIONS!! FOR GIVING NINTNDO WII A PIECE OF 
 DO DO!! DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! CONTROLS SUCK!! DON'T 
 BUY THIS GAME!!! DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! DON'T BUY 
 THIS GAME!!! DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! MONEY+GRUBBIN PROGRAMMERS!!! DON'T BUY 
 THIS GAME!!! DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! DON'T BUY THIS 
 GAME!!! NOT WORTH 50 BUCKS!! DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! 
 THE GRAPHICS ON E. T. FOR THE ATARI 2600 WERE BETTER PROGRAMMED THAN THIS WANNABE!! DON'T BUY THIS 
 GAME!!! DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! 
 VICARIOUS WHO?? DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! DON'T BUY THIS 
 GAME!!! DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cesarspalace
Rating: 5
Date: May 19, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  This game was ok, but other than that, IT SUCKED!!! it was short as hell, and it didnt follow the 
 story from the movie, i seen the movie b4 i played the game so i should know. And what makes me 
 mad the most is that if they're gonna make a game for all the systems they should make them ALL 
 THE SAME, cuz Spider-Man 3 for the PS3 and the 360 look WAY better, with better graphic, but i 
 cant get a **** PS3 or 360, all i got is a Wii, which is cool, but make the games all the same 
 next time u you decide to make a game for all the systems!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DawnClover
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 17, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3 delivers all I was expecting: Spider-Man crazyness and for the Wii: awesome controls.
 
  
  Story:
  One thing I liked about the game is that it doesn't follow the story exactly as the movie and you 
 have a couple of run-ins with other of Spidey's nemesis (I won't spoil you) . The Venom/Sand-Man 
 story is a nice alternative and I believe it would also work out on the movie if it was more desenvolved 
 (yes, there are loads of flaws on the story, if you haven't seen the movie you will see yourself 
 going like: WTH? What are they doing/talking about? WTH just happened?) . So yeah, story is ok, 
 but could have had more depth, it's about the movie, but it's something external to the movie and 
 everybody should be able to enjoy it, and it doesn't deliver this, it's only for people who saw 
 the movie... or people who just want to swing around manhattan :D
  
  Controls:
  The controls are the best thing in the game, they are easy to master, easy to remember, fun to 
 use and work great! I'll just comment about the swinging wich is my favorite thing to do around 
 Manhattan: You can swing with both Spidey's hand independently, you use the nunchuck for the left 
 hand and the wiimote for the right hand. To send the web you press Z or B (depends on the hand 
 you'll be using) and swing the nunchuck/wiimote and away he goes! You can then press the other 
 hand's trigger button and release it before the middle of the swing for extra speed. To release 
 the web, you just release the trigger and immediatly send another web with any hand you like. And 
 yes, the movement of your hand influences the direction to where the web will be sent. Controls 
 are super awesome and they make the whole experience unique and very, very fun. Then to attack 
 you can swing your wiimote for normal attacks and hit A for a Super attack (or swing both the nunchuck 
 and wiimote down at the same time) . You can unlock loads of combos with your Spidey points. They 
 could be a bit more variety of moves though, but they work ok.
  
  Graphics:
  Ok, the graphics are not perfect, but they are awesome and very well done, and, to my view, just 
 the way they're supposed to be: no major flaws (there are some) and very smooth. The cutscenes 
 are often in FMV and you get this spectacular full-rendered movie - a delight to anyone's eyes. 
 Also, the huge model of Manhattan is just awesome.
  
  Difficulty:
  The game has 3 difficulty modes wich you can change anytime you want: Hero, Super-Hero and Sidekick. 
 Very convenient.
  
  Longevity:
  The story is very small, I finished it in +- 5 hours (and I took that long because I was having 
 fun swinging around manhattan) but I get to the progress screen and I see i'm only at 49% of the 
 game. There's much more to do! Catch meteorites lost around the city, put a stop to the gangs terrorizing 
 Manhattan and loads more content. It may get a little repetitive, but it's fun to play nonetheless.
 
  
  Sound:
  The voices are ok, they could be better though, sometimes they can sound a bit cheese, but nothing 
 major to worry about, they do their job just fine. The music is awesome and resembles the movies. 
 Also, the tutorial guy's voice is back and funnier than ever xD There are loads of jokes during 
 the story line too, enough to satisfy anyone.
  
  Conclusion:
  So, Spider-Man 3 is not the best Wii game around, but it's definitly the best Spider-Man game to 
 date (beats the PS3 and XBOX360 version in a blink - and i played the three of them) and if you're 
 a fan you should get the Wii version, even if it's just for the whole experience, because it's 
 worth it.
  
  Also, THE MOVIE OWNS! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uptheanti
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 17, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  This game I beliebe was rated too harshly by gamespot among other sources. The primary reason being 
 the graphics, which at some parts are ugly, but overall not too bad, especially when dealing with 
 such a large city. The biggest thing that this game has going for it is the gameplay aka the controls. 
 You are able to actually control spidermans webslinging ability. This makes the game very immersive, 
 but also makes the learning curve a bit steeper because you have to practice your swinging technique 
 so ur not constantly running into building. The developers made the web slinging quite accurate, 
 like if ur web hooks onto a building corner you are going to swing are the corner and not straight 
 so you have to remember to let go at the right point. The motion controls for combat are quite 
 intuitive with its gestures, at sometimes boring but overall satisfying, especially while wearing 
 the black suit. Which brings up, the black suit which was one of the best things about the game, 
 the ability to choose when you want to use it and how it really does up your combat. Also it was 
 great how you had to do gestures to get it off. Now some parts of the game are lacking, such as 
 some of the crime patrols are kind of stupid and repetive, and the voice acting in some parts is 
 terrible. But if you get past that and are looking for a game the harnests the wii remote and motion 
 sensing and really make you feel like spiderman than this is a game for you. You can spend countless 
 hours just swinging around because its just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DickJKH
Rating: 3.3
Date: May 15, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  Was it too much to expect that Spider-Man 3 would be an enhancement of Spider-Man 2? I didnt think 
 so, but apparently the programmers did. Spider-Man 3 on the Wii left me unsatisfied, bored and 
 at points, very angry.
  
  Spider-Man, the character, is known for two things: web slinging and wall crawling. For the Wii, 
 web slinging was everything I could have expected. It used the Wii remote to its ability and actually 
 allowed to sling a web. The ability to choose which hand was just a nice little added novelty. 
 The wall crawling, however, was one of the most difficult things to accomplish. It used to be that 
 if you were going to web sling into a building, you could craftily press a button and you could 
 crawl on the wall. Spider-Man 3 however will let you fall halfway down the building before it even 
 registers that you want to be on the building. Even then, you end up running down the building 
 the rest of the way.
  
  Combat is dull. After mastering a few select moves, the play becomes repetitive and tiring. The 
 most difficult thing about the combat is the control of the Wii remote. It primarily is focused 
 on waving the Wii remote a certain number of times. Wave too fast and youll end up waving too 
 many times and Spider-Man wont attack because you havent purchased that particular upgrade yet. 
 Wave too slowly and he wont attack at all. Boss fights are almost insulting. It becomes a game 
 of move to a certain spot in the level and press the button that we flash on the screen. Even 
 worse is when the player is waiting for the screen prompts to tell you when you should press the 
 button, Spider-Man will make a remark about how you should defeat the boss.
  
  During one of the initial cut scenes, it was troubling to look at Peter Parker and J. Jonah Jameson, 
 much less run and hide. The characters looked like awful caricatures of themselves and could even 
 be disproportionate at times. It seems that the only character they spent time on making look good 
 was Spider-Man in both suits, and he does look good. Even so, the city itself lacks the luster 
 it had in previous games.
  
  Game play and graphics aside, the game is full of glitches. Lots and lots of glitches. First mission 
 I played right out of the box, I end up unable to finish it because I somehow went through a wall 
 I wasnt supposed to go through. In no more than 10 times attempting to play Spider-Man 3, my game 
 time was cut short because the game itself decided it had enough. Missions would begin to fail 
 themselves. The screen would go black except for the health bar and destination icons. In one instance, 
 the game froze up for no apparent reason. If the lock ups arent enough, the voices for the characters 
 often get mixed up. Males and females will interchange lines and genders more often than not.
 
  
  When a game goes as bad as this one the storyline is usually the saving grace. Spider-Man 3 on 
 the Wii could have used one. You are thrust into a mission and facing a H-Bomber before you learn 
 any attacks or moves at all. The story line jumps around from the main plot line to secondary plot 
 lines without any option as to which you should follow. When you finally go back to an old plot 
 line, youre there without explanation.
  
  All in all, this game is almost embarrassing to keep in my collection. I have never beaten a game 
 and returned it, but Spider-Man 3 might be the first. The cons dont just outweigh the pros, they 
 outshine the pros. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holmesy87
Rating: 5
Date: May 15, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  Being a Wii owner and nintendo fan im constantly arguing their corner when its comes to games and 
 how good they are, but this time i was seriously let down by how shallow and repetitive this game 
 holds up compared to the other ports. Having played spidey 2 i was expecting so much more but after 
 a good hour i realised just how much they removed that made the last game awsome, furthermore then 
 seeing how much detailed little extras were added to my housemates xbox360 version really frustrated 
 me. Ok the graphics cant compete but i just dont understand why they made this game so weak for 
 the Wii, if you have never played the previous game then without a doubt your going to find this 
 game brilliant to play , but for me it feels like all too similar. Even little things like having 
 a train track , or being able to visit liberty island have been removed, it just appears they couldnt 
 be arsed to me.
  
  I do like the swinging system but not enough has changed in this game to make it fun for more than 
 the first 15 minutes. The game had tonnes of potential to hold its own against xbox and playstation. 
 Just a let down for me. If you can buy another port. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inva8970
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 13, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Game play- fun web swing from building is new and intersting can have some glitches, and web swing 
 can be akward and fight is smooth.
  
  Graphics- The graphics are like its trying to be 360 graphics but it doesnt work. the cut scenes 
 look nice but talking to someone in close up the can be a eye sore. But while you are fight and 
 swing through NY you tend to notice it less.
  
  Sound- The sound is good and bad sometimes. I like how they got the real actors from the movie 
 and the narator at the begging is that one guy from the French restraunt (3rd movie) and the from 
 the play place (2nd movie) . The web swong makes wierd mouse click sounds which was odd to me. Value-So 
 far i am having a playing it and i feel like i would play through it again just to swing around 
 NY
  
  Tilt-The game is old spider man games with a new unique feel. I have never felt more like spider 
 man while playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowman0610
Rating: 8
Date: May 13, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  I'll go in depth for you so you can see where i stand on this game and hopefully this review will 
 help you out.
  
  Graphics: 7
  Alright, they aren't the best graphics that the wii is capable of but they do have some little 
 features. The frame rate on this game is amazing, you can swing at top speed thru NYC and the game 
 doesn't slow down at all. The lighting effects make a small impact but it is nice to know that 
 they thought of it. However, there are some bad parts to these, for example, there is little diversity 
 in anything from buildings to people (who often times there voice doesnt atch their gender but thats 
 another issue)
  
  Sound: 5
  There is very little music in the game (no music when youre just swingin around) the civillians 
 voices may not match their gender and the accents are terrible. On the bright side the main characters 
 are voiced by the actors with the exception of Kirsten Dunst. but none of them seem to excited. 
 Spider-man's taunts are fun the first time but after a while it just gets repetitive the sopund 
 of the web is good though!
  
  Replay Value: 9
  The advantage in replay value here is that it is a relatively short game so you want to go back 
 and up the difficulty or try to complete the game in a faster time this bieng a short game you 
 can do that. there is also a lot to do after you beat the story. You can rid NYC of all the gangs, 
 search for Spider Emblems, or meteorites and beat your time in all the challenges.
  
  Tilt: 9
  Granted i'm a huge fan of Spider-man so i may tend to be a little biased in this review 
 nevertheless i try to be as fair as I can.
  
  Gameplay: 8
  I found this game fun to play from swinging around to fight ing the bosses. The bosses are all 
 unique which makes them all the more fun. They each give you a sense of an epic fight between Spidey 
 and whoever the boss happens to be. The fighting system works well. it's nice to see that they 
 actually thought about the wiimote and made it work.
  
  Conclusion: 8
  I hope this review helps if even a little but this is just an honest review from a Spider-man fan 
 who actually loved this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stoufzilla
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 13, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  Spider-man 3 for the Wii generated quite a lot of hype - i mean, what could be better than swinging 
 around NY just like everyone's favourite super-hero? Personally I believe the reason most people 
 don't like this game is because of the huge expectations for Spidey's first (but hopefully not 
 last) Wii game. Overall this game is not as good as it could've been, but certainly much much better 
 than most people think (definitely better than the 4.7 GameSpot gave!) .
  
  Gameplay - The main thing here is the controls, by now you probably know the mechanics of the games 
 web-slinging controls (flick the Wiimote holding B, the Nunchuk holding Z) but you really need 
 to play this game to appreciate the feel of everything. It took me around 20 - 30 mins to get the 
 hang of swinging around which was pretty funny, but after you get the hang of it, it really feels 
 natural. For left-handed gamers theres a simple menu option where you can easily switch the controls 
 round at the push of a button to suit your style of playing. The combat feels good with the Wiimote 
 and Nunchuk however a lot of the stylish combos from Spider-man 2 are missing, the Web Rodeo in 
 particular is fun to pull off. Theres been a LOT of talk about the camera in the game, making it 
 practically unplayable which just isn't true. Granted it does feel like they over-used the motion 
 sensitive controls here (you hold C and tilt the Nunchuk in the direction you want the camera to 
 move) and the camera itself moves pretty slow, but I didn't experience any problems, as simply 
 tapping C centres the camera behind spider-man and I didn't really find myself needing to use the 
 camera in any combat situations.
  
  Story - not going into detail for those who haven't playing the game yet, BE WARNED! - the story 
 is short! but very fun while it lasts! Theres not much new here, the game loosely follows the plot 
 of the movie with some extra bad guys thrown in to fill the game out. Theres crime patrols to do 
 too, keeping the NY gangs under control and races to do, overall these tried-and-tested elements 
 seem fresh with the new control scheme. Adding some realism to the game, if you neglect parts of 
 the city - not doing crime patrols etc - the area will look increasingly run-down and people will 
 lose faith in you - shouting taunts or general family-friendly abuse to you.
  
  Graphics - another big part of peoples' beef with this game is the graphics. The graphics are decent 
 enough, we arent talking FF12 stuff here but they certainly aren't horrible. Of course, compared 
 to the 360 or PS3 versions they are going to look sub-par but as a Wii game they're solid. People 
 complain that from too high up the buildings in the distance lose their textures, which is true 
 but you don't really find yourself up that high, for that long, looking that far away - youll probably 
 crawl up a skyscraper, notice the missing textures and almost never think of it again, and everything 
 looks nice when you're just swinging around. The cutscenes in the Daily Bugle are pretty nasty 
 but others are generally good, a problem with the cutscenes however, the shadows &amp; lighting 
 are a bit all-over-the-place and dont seem to decide what they want to do on spiderman, this isn't 
 unwatchable and only affects the cutscenes, which are generally over in a minute or two. Theres 
 been talk of some glitches in the game but I personally haven't experienced any apart from one 
 - when getting the hang of swinging I (embarrassingly) swung right into the side of a building, 
 spiderman slid along the wall, desperately clinging onto his web line but his body had gone halfway 
 into the wall - I'd like to point out that this has only happened the one time and i havent experienced 
 any floating bad guys or anything but I'm aware that NPCs can sometimes walk through vehicles and 
 stuff.
  
  Sound - the sound in the game is, overall, very good, the Wiimote makes typical web noises when 
 you swing around or splat some bad guy in the face with a web ball, and just typical thwacks and 
 such when youre punching / kicking someone. There isnt a lot of music in the game but the sound 
 of the wind rushing by as you swing through the city is very atmospheric and the sound still manages 
 to give you that super-hero feel. Enemies sometimes repeat the same few lines over again, but i 
 haven't experienced this myself - as another reviewer said, if you're noticing the voice loop you 
 arent beating the bad guys fast enough. Theres an issue with some NPC voices too - for example 
 a white NPC talking with an asian voice, im aware some people see men with womens voices but it 
 doesn't make the game terrible. Bruce Campbell narrates the game, adding some hilarious comments, 
 in particular when youre being shown the ropes of the control scheme - his narration really adds 
 humour to the game and lightens the mood of the game in general.
  
  Value - I live in England so i aren't familiar with American retail prices, but if you can get 
 this game for a good price (i bought this game for around &pound;30 new off ebay) its better than 
 the normal retail price. The retail price isnt bad but for a game so short you'd have to give it 
 some thought before paying the full amount for it.
  
  Overall I love this game and is a worthwhile buy for any fan of the movie. For spider-man fans 
 like myself it is a must buy and will not be a disappointment. For others though, I'd go as far 
 to say it's a must rent, just to experience the web-slinging controls.
  
  Thanks for your time and thanks for reading my review!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeffdaAlien
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 12, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Well dont be fooled by the reviews for this game because this is one of the best spider-man games 
 that I've played. Although it has a lot of noticeable bugs it doesn't really affect the gameplay. 
 This review is based on the wii version.
  
  Gameplay- Overall this game has really good gameplay. Its fun using the wiimotes to beat some of 
 your favorite spider-man enemies but can get really repetitive after a while. Although it might 
 not seem like it swinging through the city is as fun and addicting as it is easy.
  
  Graphics-They could have been better, but for a system thats not as good as its competitors they 
 are pretty dang good.
  
  Sound-The sound is ok. The voice acting is better then you would expect and the music is really 
 quite nice. The music really sets you in the mood to play. Some of the jokes are also funny.
  
  In the end this game is pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havraha
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 12, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Im honestly surprised by one thing  that other people are actually surprised by how the game 
 turned out. Treyarch developed Spider-Man 3  just as they developed Spider-Man 2, and the orginal 
 Spider-Man movie game! So  why the hell SO MANY PEOPLE expected that Spider-Man 3 would be different 
 than the previous incursions into the franchise is beyond me. But nonetheless, the entire internets 
 are imploding across the board because Spider-Man 3 is not a very original take on the Spider-Man 
 game franchise. In my mind? Its exactly what I expected it to be  pretty similar to Spider-Man 
 2, but new.
  
  Nonetheless, its worth noting Treyarch developed the XBOX 360 and PS3 versions of the games. Activision 
 themselves went out of their way to do something that honestly every developer should do, but dont 
 really spend the time doing  which is treating the Wii differently from these two systems. Wii 
 has an uncanny ability to attract lame ports if you will from developers, simply because developers 
 are lazy. If they cant port the game from the XBOX 360 version, then theyll try to up-port it 
 from a version of a game made specifically for the PS2  so in a way, Wii rarely gets the attention 
 the console deserves for a game to be made on it, because its definitely not a super-powerful 
 graphics console, but its graphical capabilities certainly arent last generation either.
  
  This is where Activision comes in  while Treyarch develop the game for 360 and PS3, Activison 
 assigns one of their OTHER development studios to build the Wii version of the game from the ground 
 up for the system  a developer whos had experience with Wii controls: Vicarious Visions, who 
 ported Marvel Ultimate Alliance from the PS2 version to the Wii.
  
  The most obvious result from this decision is that Spider-Man 3 controls on the Wii VERY similar 
 to how other Marvel heroes have controlled on the console before  shaking the Wii remote unleashes 
 a flurry of quick, light attacks  the A button delivers a hard blow, the B button and other combinations 
 of it fires webbing, holding down the C button and tilting the nunchuk turns the camera, and the 
 Z button jumps. So in reality, the fight mechanics are very simple, but dont think that means 
 that the Wii version will allow you to effortlessly plow through enemies. The basic fight mechanic 
 is really built around you KNOWING what youre doing. If you simply try to button mash your way 
 through baddies, youll end up with incomplete combos that will not have finished off your enemies, 
 and leave you vunerable to a counter attack. Likewise, mobs of enemies simply dont stand around 
 waiting for their turn  theyll attack you too, so youll likely get you tail handed to you if 
 go into mob groups flailing with your Wii Remote like a wild man.
  
  And though the entirity of the game seems like its very similar to what Treyarch has done with 
 the 360 and PS3 versions of the game, the game is still fundamentally made by a different developer, 
 which means one thing  tweaks to the formula. Vicarious Visions has changed things around a bit 
 from Treyarch's version ... but this also means more bad news -- the game simply isn't as polished 
 as Treyarch's versions.
  
  Of course, what everyone is really interested in is web-slinging. Treyarchs version of the game 
 has basically been praised for its swinging mechanics, and most reviewers agree that simply swinging 
 through the city is just as fun, or perhaps funner, than playing the main game. This hasnt actually 
 changed at all from Vicarious Visions version. The difference is the Wii Remotes are used for 
 a VERY advanced swing mechanic. Pressing B and swinging down with the Remote fires webbing from 
 Spideys right hand, while holding Z and swinging down on the nunchuck fires webbing from his left. 
 Pressing down, holding, and releasing A during these swings can give Spidey extra swinging boosts, 
 while swinging harder can cause him to produce sharp turns while web slinging, and how you tilt 
 the controllers effect his overall swinging motions, allowing Wii owners to have an EXTREMELY in 
 depth swing mechanic in their version of the game which simply cant be offered on the other consoles, 
 due to their lack of controller separation. Of course  if you dont care about this sort of thing, 
 you can basically press B and swing the remote over and over again to get where youre going, but 
 . honestly, whats the fun in that?
  
  Graphically, the Wiis version is given some candy coating over its PS2 predecessors but ... it 
 still hobbles behind its other next-gen version from Treyarch. There are really AMAZING lighting 
 effects in this game that couldnt have been achieved on the Gamecube. Honestly, swinging through 
 New York above sky scrapers with Spider-Man and the city glowing around you may be one of the more 
 visually beautiful moments on Wii. What remains different though, is that Spider-Man simply isnt 
 the massive collection of polygons that he is in the other versions. Hes definitely given a lot 
 more polygonal care and modeling than NPCs are, but he simply doesnt measure up to the Spideys 
 of Nintendos competition. Likewise, buildings arent as detailed, the city floor isnt as tightly 
 packed with cars and NPCs  and possibly more depressingly, textures are stripped off of distant 
 buildings to maintain the draw distance. If Spider-Man swings or climbs high enough (specifically 
 onto the tip of the spire of the Empire State Building) , you can notice that ALL the textures on 
 ALL the buildings are suddenly stripped from them, leaving only colored, glowing blocks in their 
 place. This probably isnt a fault with Wii as much as it is Vicarious Visions not working on texture 
 and draw distance coding as long as they should have, but ultimately thats a complaint that seems 
 to carry over from each version of the game: there are a few glaring bugs that pop up now and then, 
 like draw distance, framerate chopping, collision detection, and just a few flat out glitches that 
 occur in this game, which would indicate that every single version simply needed to be left in 
 the oven longer than it was, and the games were overall rushed to the market for a launch alongside 
 the movie.
  
  Probably the single most graphically ugly part of the game, though, are the cut scenes. Theyre 
 not rendered using the in-game engine. Well  they are rendered using SOME in-game engine, but 
 not the Wiis  theyre recorded videos of 360 game engine renders, which are played back and  
 at not a very good quality  and its noticable. Hell, when Peter Parker is out of his suit in these 
 cutscenes, the expressions he makes are borderline nightmarish. He simply looks like a horrifying 
 clown in some cases.
  
  Gameplay - 7 - The controls are really nice, though the camera is a bit buggy  though thats nothing 
 new for a Spider-Man game. Vicarious Visions did good in making Spider-Man control in a familiar 
 fashion to what people probably have already played on Marvel Ultimate Alliance, though it overall 
 feels simplistic compared to past iterations of the game.
  
  Graphics - 5 - Although Spiderman has some nice lighting effects, the draw distance and textures 
 makes this game suffer ... a lot.
  
  Sound - 6 - The sound is probably the most unimpressive part of the game. Many of the NPC lines 
 are simply dumb, like Spider-man, the Apocalypse gang have stolen a shipment of delicious fruit 
 pies! We could use all the help we can get!, and other times Toby McGuires performance seems 
 overall sleepy and uninspired, like he was only doing it because he was getting paid. Which  I 
 guess is exactly why hes doing it. Not to mention, the game makes a little bit TOO much use of 
 the Wii Remotes speaker, giving you a seemingly unending barrage of crackling impact noises when 
 youre punching . but the game redeems itself from a 5 in the sound department thanks to Bruce 
 Campbells flat out hilarious and potentially award winning narration of the game, and J. K. Simmons 
 flawlessly outstanding performance as J. Jonah Jameson.
  
  Value - 7 - The open ended nature of the game will let you run through New York City fighting random 
 baddies over and over again, so your game really doesnt end, but you may get kind of bored of 
 the same types of missions recycled, although they do randomize themselves from location, gang, 
 and scenario  which is a big update from the previous games. If youre wanting to play the game 
 in place of paying for a ticket to see the movie, though, then youre going to be dissappointed, 
 since the game is VERY shallow in overall delivery of the movies story. On the upside, theres 
 a lot of side stories in the game that go along with whats happening in the movie. Though the 
 internets unanimously agree that the main plot really should have been longer.
  
  Reviewers Tilt - 7 - Blah graphics, good game, should have been left in the oven longer to make 
 it a truely great one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alik
Rating: 2
Date: May 12, 2007 2:15 am PT
Review:  I'll be the first to tell you I love the Wii I think its a wonderful concept and makes for some 
 truley entertaining games. This is not one of those games.
  
  Spider-man 3 had a decent idea in mind: Add motion to the already fun Spider-man 2 gameplay. In 
 some areas this actually works. When I first pulled the chains apart to free the person strapped 
 to the bomb I was like Oh yeah, this is fricking sweet! That feeling was short lived.
  
  Upon my first swing through the city I found myself saying Well its different and hard to do, but 
 hey swinging in spidey 2 was hard at first too. With practice I did indeed get better, but it never 
 really felt fun at all, in fact, at times I found myself pressing B and forgeting to twitch the 
 remote to make him cast the line.
  
  Combat suffers greatly too. Some of the combat borrows moves right out of the Zelda handbook. for 
 combo attacks just twitch the remote back and forth, not hard at all but then the controls ask 
 for more complex motions for example vaulting over an enemy you have to run at them and while running 
 twitch the wiimote down. As you might imagine this becomes an issue in the heat of battle with 
 multiple assailents.
  
  Now that aside let us get to the main offender: the context senitive sequences. Oh where to begin, 
 where to begin. I'll use the Harry Osborn Sequence towards the beginning of the game to illustrate. 
 Lets start with the motion sensing that doesnt always respond. You (are supposed to) tilt the remote 
 or nunchuck to move right or left respectively, unfortunately this doesnt always work if ever, 
 while doing that you have to press A repeatedly as fast as you can. Not so bad you say? First of 
 with the way your hand is tapping quickly on A is hard enough, now throw in the fact that while 
 tapping A you WILL move the reomote as well causing you to (unless you are in your furthest right 
 lane) vear over into the lane to the right of you. If you do vear into a lane you have to start 
 pressing A from scratch, and thats not all. If you hit a car (which you probably will) you again 
 have to start from the beginning.
  
  So say you manage to succesfully hit the A enough times and manage to get on the board, what is 
 your reward? another context sensitive sequence. You have to watch the prompts and do them. If 
 you fail, you get knocked off the glider and start from scratch with the A tapping again. Of course 
 the game is buggy and doesnt always register the inputs of your commands and you inevitably get 
 knocked off.
  
  I got to the 3 stage of this (and was probably the last stage) and did the prompt for the 3 wave 
 of the wiimote (or nunchuck) and i land it perfectly, and say to myself Yes! only to find it doesnt 
 register and i get knocked off the glider and then lose the remaining 1/4 of my health trying to 
 get back up. At this point i resist the urge to smash the wiimote in the lamp and turn off the 
 system and go beat on the punching bag for about 20 minutes.
  
  I love the wii so much, but this game is horrible, I know nintendo is trying to force people to 
 use the features on it, but companys need to clue in, adding gesture controls to a button press 
 game just doesnt work. The game has to be 100% fresh in concept. This does make making a Wii game 
 much harder than another system, but ultimately much more rewarding when done right. Wii's success 
 depends on companys figuring this out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Redline
Rating: 4.3
Date: May 11, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  I'm reviewing this game without seeing the actual Spider-Man 3 movie yet, so go easy on me all 
 you webheads. First of all, lets start by getting a few things out of the way. I am a huge Spider-Man 
 fan, so don't take this review the wrong way. I had Spider Man and Spider Man 2 for the PS2, and 
 back in the Super Nintendo days I had the Spider-Man &amp; Venom game with Carnage in it too. Those 
 games were pretty good, with the exception of Spider-Man 2 being a little too easy. But Spider-Man 
 3 seems a little too familiar for my taste... The game is supposed to follow the storyline of the 
 movie for the most part, but it seems to revolve around the meteorite storyline more than anything 
 else. The source of Spidey's black suit is this meteorite that crashes in the city, and you soon 
 find out that Spidey wasn't the only one to benefit from the powers within, but Shriek was also 
 granted quite a bit of power as well. You fight Harry once, and let me say it's a lame fight. You 
 hang from his glider, move the wii-mote left or right to dodge traffic, then jump up on the glider 
 and make Harry hit it with his sword due to his bad aim and after a few hits he crashes. How magical! 
 The only good thing about this game is the inclusion of Venom. I hate Sandman, because he was turned 
 into a sissy in this game. But Venom proves to be somewhat of a challenge in the main boss fight, 
 and it sometimes can be frustrating trying to work the confusing Wii controls during the battle. 
 My only complaint about Venom is how retarded he looks. They did not do the comic justice in this 
 game.
  
  In closing, I know this review wasn't very helpful, but I just want to close by saying that this 
 game is far too easy, and the only gimmick this game had going for it on the wii loses it's novelty 
 after just a few missions. The idea of swinging the remotes like spiderman swings his arms may 
 have sounded good on paper, but it's quite a pain in the A$$. Rent it and beat it in 4 hours like 
 I did, and you too will wish you spent your money elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamgian
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 11, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  No webslinging upgrades, you can't tie people to the streetlights, and the gang missions get pretty... redundant. 
 I feel like Activision rushed this product so they could release it at the same time as the movie. 
 I got to 50% on the first day... if it weren't for Twilight Princess I probably would have finished 
 it the same day...
  
  Like everyone says, it's like they took #2, and ripped all the coolness to shreds. Hell, the first 
 game is almost better than this one, aside from the fact that you can't go lower than the buildings. 
 What happened with games today? It seems like developers are just putting products out there without 
 running them through the QA department. This game had potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrayneDrayne
Rating: 3
Date: May 11, 2007 4:58 am PT
Review:  I foolishly ran out and bought this game after reading the review on the 360, thinking the game 
 would be much the same. I couldn't have been more wrong. This is a lazy, poorly done and spectacularly 
 dull.
  
  My expectations weren't high, all I wanted was Spiderman 2, on the Wii, with the badguys from the 
 new movie. Instead I have a stripped-down version of number 2, with horrendous graphics (I wouldn't 
 mind, but they are so uneven. J Jonah Jameson has a higher quality skin than Spider-man himself!) . 
 When the developers ran out of buttons, it seems, they simply decided to leave the excess features 
 out. You can't grab enemies, use your spidersense, use bullet time, grapple enemies, or even web 
 up enemies. Combat mostly involves punching enemies repeatedly. A number of other combat techniques 
 do exist, but none of them do damage comparable to a simple punch combo, so for the most part you 
 will avoid them except against enemies who require certain moves to defeat easily.
  
  The black suit does play a larger part in this game than on the 360 and PS2, but simply serves 
 to strip the last of the fun from combat. Put it on and you become strong enough to defeat almost 
 all enemies in a punch or two. Any slight challenge that exists is instantly removed.
  
  Bosses, conversely, go the other way. They are weak on the attack, but have huge health, meaning 
 that, with a few exceptions, boss fights are long, painstaking and dull affairs.
  
  Webswinging is quite good fun on the Wii, although tricky to come to terms with. All you will use 
 it for, however is swinging from mission to mission, as there is no longer any fun in exploring 
 the city. Random missions no longer appear, but are generated when you press the - button when 
 an indicator pops up. There is also little to no reason to want to do them, as they grant only 
 a minuscule amount of experience, and there isnt even a reward system or statistics page like in 
 number 2.
  
  Simply put, this game is an ugly, poorly designed and spectacularly boring mess. I have a thousand 
 other grievances that I havnt even touched upon. Don't buy or rent, even if you are a massive fan 
 of the games/movies, you will only be dissappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattias838
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 10, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to put this as bluntly as I can, Spiderman 3 is fun to play but besides the fact that 
 it's Spiderman 3... it is nearly exactly like Spiderman 2 with some minor changes. Like I said it's 
 fun to play and all but first of all it was way to short and it not really anything new. The graphics 
 haven't improved a great deal if at all, and the environment you play in which is New York hasn't 
 changed at all from the last Spiderman game, not that it would but you'd think they would put something 
 new in so that players will have something new to play with but no. In short this game is not worth 
 buying... borrow it and you will most likely finish the story within the time you have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natebayne
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 10, 2007 4:29 am PT
Review:  First off let me start by, this game is better than everyone gives it credit for. I have actually 
 sat down and tried to play it rather than play 5 minutes of it and decide. The graphics are not 
 as horrible as everyone says, yes when you get up high they are pretty bad, thats the ONLY time 
 they are bad. Other than that its pretty enjoyable. The One-liners and the jokes do get bad, but 
 the core gameplay is actually enjoyable. It is fun to swing amongst the buildings actually using 
 2 hands. This game definatly doesent deserve a 4.7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peeker9923
Rating: 6.4
Date: May 9, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  So heres whats wrong with spiderman 3 for the wii: Bad graphics, bad framerate, bad combat, and 
 it's just too short. Heres whats good about spiderman 3 for the wii: swinging around with the wii 
 remote and nunchuck is extremely fun. Swinging around new york will keep you busy for hours.
  So in the end, this game is clearly not as good as the games that came before it, which makes it 
 hard to reccomend. But, unlike gamespot, I do think that this game has a really good story. If 
 you havent seen the movie, this game will tell you exactly what you need to know, plus, there are 
 even more awesome villains to fight than in the movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waZelda
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 9, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  It really is a huge dissappointment to me. Maybe it is because nintendo is uncapeble of working 
 on a deadline (if a Zelda game is first annouced to come in Q1 2007 you can bet it will come in 
 march 2008) . Anyway. As you start of, you'll find the controlling quite simular to other wii-games 
 like Zelda TP. You learn more tricks on the way, by using hero points, which you get when you do 
 quests. However the figthing doesn't really get much different and the quest doesn't either. After 
 you have played the game for an hour, you're possibly already sick of the figthing. The only time 
 the figthing will be different is when you face of others with super powers. However, the figthing 
 really isn't better then either. After like three hours, the only reason I took the main quests 
 was because of the story. However the story is good. It follows the comics, which makes it quite 
 nostalgic for ex-fans like me (I was a fan until 2003, when all the comics was bad) . It is not 
 just the villains in the film, like Sand-man and Venom, but also tou've got the lizard, Kraven 
 the hunster, Mr and Mrs. Morfeus (or Morpheus, I'm not quite sure) . What I expected to be the best 
 thing in the game was to just swing around using the wii-remote. And it was as well. Though you 
 migth find spidey aiming for another building then you attended, you will get the hang of it and 
 it really feels great. Manhatton is big and you migth use a couple of minutes swinging from an 
 end to another. However that's about the only thing that is good. The sound isn't great, Peter's 
 vocabulary isn't what it should be (you'll be bugged every time he open his mouth, and there are 
 far to much bugs in the game to make a high gameplay score. The graphics on New York migth not 
 be to bad, but the people looks just stupid. Sand-man doesn't look good at all. So my tilt will 
 be high because of the swinging and the story, and the gameplay migth get a little because of the 
 swinging, but on the others, I'll give a low score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LavisFiend
Rating: 6
Date: May 8, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Let me first state, that I was really looking forward to this game. I was reading the article that 
 was covered by game informer, and it sounded preety great. It stated that it would have; action 
 sequences, freedom, tons of side quests, and a very fulfilling experience controlling black-suit 
 spidey.
  
  And it haves all that... only, from READING it, it sounded like great fun, and that it would be 
 a welcome title to the wii library as it was a spidey title, with great promise...
  
  Oh no... it was a lie. Instead of a fulfilling experience, what we have here, is a cash in spidey 
 title that, to me, feels rushed in order to get the game out along the release (as they knew it 
 would sell better that way.)
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  
  Ok, we all know that the wii is the weakest out of the 3 systems in terms of graphics, but this 
 is just sad. This game dosen't show any signs of it being a next gen title, it looks like a gamecube 
 title, but of the worst quality. The 6-7 citizen models are REALLY low quality, and look horrible. 
 The draw distance between building textures however, was suprisingly good, and offered preety low 
 pop-up, but it was there. The buildings looked sort of bland and boring, but they were tolerable. 
 The enemies are bland, cookie-cutter, boring models that really offer nothing to the eye.
  
  Meanwhile, looking at the character models that SHOULD look good, look preety decent. Spidey 
 looks great, could look better, but looks decent enough. The other character models for Green Goblin, 
 J. J., M. J., etc., also look alright, but could use some more work.
  
  The cinematics of the game make the character models look sort of cartoonish, in a bad way. A very 
 common thing will happen during these cinematics as some don't run so smoothly, they clip a bit 
 and the backgrounds suffer during these moments.
  
  Sound: 6/10
  
  The only thing that actually boosted this to a 6 then rather a 5 is that a vast majority of the 
 cast from the movie voiced their corresponding parts. The civilian voices have every ethnic group 
 you can imagine, but they are not really that good. Sometimes, the game glitches up, and when you 
 rescue a girl, a guys voice will chime in, and vice versa. It happens much more regularly than 
 you might think. Shame shame.
  
  It's a spidey game, brace yourself for very cheesy dialog. Spidey chimes in with very cheesy lines 
 at the most unwanted times, and the enemies/civilian dialogue really makes you wince at how horrible 
 it is. If I ever have to hear, My Spidey senses- LOSERS! or You are a spider, I am a WINDSHIELD! 
 one more time... I will commit honorable samurai suicide.
  
  The sound effects are alright. The web *fwip* and *whoosh* noises sound ok, but the whack noises 
 that are associated with hitting or getting hit are bland. I think there are only 4-5 music tracks 
 in the whole game, and they try to convey a feeling of epicness, but fail, as they grow old fast, 
 and are ultimately forgettable.
  
  Story: 6/10
  
  The story, in short, sucks. It is stories like this that I do wish that they followed the movie. 
 The game only covers a few segments from the movie... I'd say the segments make up about 15-20% 
 of the overall story... the other 80% is filler mess that makes no sense whatsoever.
  
  Controls: 7/10
  
  The controls are passable. Webslinging is preety nifty, as you hold Z to 
 jump, then while you are airborne, while you continue to hold Z, you swing the controller to websling 
 with whatever hand you hold the nunchuk with. In order to swing with your other hand, you just 
 hold the B button on the wiimote and repeat the same motion. Camera controller is something else 
 I found interesting. You hold the C button on the nunchuk and you TILT the Nunchuk in whatever 
 direction you want to look, and the camera corresponds to where you tilt.
  
  Combat is handled by waving your wiimote and mixing in an A button press to toss in a strong attack 
 here and there. It is not the most flashy of combat systems, and it is preety boring, but very 
 easy to do. What I did find annoying however, is that, although there is really no case of reading 
 issues with the controller, you tend to get hung up on walls alot, making fluid web-slinging not 
 such an easy task to perform.
  
  Gameplay: 6/10
  
  Ah, the meat of the game. It is here where people really come for in a game, and if this fails, 
 the game does as well. This game suffers from repetitivity. I can't stress this enough. it is not 
 HORRIBLE in the sense of being too hard, too easy, etc.
  
  It is just boring and repetive. Allow me to explain this further.
  
  The creators stressed 
 freedom and tons of side missions. We have this, but not in the ways you would think we would. 
 The side missions, are horrible. There is NO variety in the missions whatsoever, you are basically 
 playing the same mission, over and over, in just a different order and maybe a different objective 
 here and there, TO TRICK YOU into thinking that it has variety. but it does not.
  
  To break this up even more, if I was to take every single objective this game has to offer, the 
 count would be around 6-8 objectives... spread across 100+ sidemissions... sounds like it would 
 have some variety? heh, think again; Every side mission is comprised of around 3-5 objectives. 
 Each objective from each side mission takes away from the total overall count of what the sidemissions 
 offer. So from just playing, I dunno, maybe 4-5 missions, you have played everything that the game 
 could offer you from side missions... and from that point up, it just reorganizes it in a different 
 order.
  
  So in short, if I were to take every possible order of all the missions, I would probably be around 
 6 UNIQUE missions... that all suck. Sure, they even go so far as to switch minuscule things to make 
 you think you are doing something different, but they are so minor, it does nothing to save it. 
 They mainly just change the item you are trying to retrieve, and/or the occupation of the person 
 you are trying to rescue.
  
  Now, you are probably asking yourself, how could they even add any variety to that? It is so simple...
 
  
  Shorten-the-friggen-side missions. It's a SIDE mission, it shouldn't last longer than 3 minutes... if 
 THAT. Shorten the length of the missions, you don't need objectives, and if you do, keep it at 
 2-3, NOT 3-5... If they only had shortened the length of the side missions, they would actually 
 come out offering more variety than they do now... oh, did I mention that the side missions last 
 around 8-10 minutes?
  
  That's right. You will be playing the same few sidemissions, over and over and over and over again... 
 for around 8-10 minutes each, 5 if you get lucky and the objectives are not strewn all over the 
 place. It makes playing the side missions a test of patience, and it is such a shame, because had 
 they worked on them a bit more, I would actually bother trying to finish sweeping up all of the 
 gangs, (after the 40-50 sidemissions I have played... I grew fed up with it) but I don't plan on 
 rescuing another fruit pie, or saving another squad of powered cops that can handle the deed of 
 stopping evildoers by theirselves.
  
  So the freedom aspect starts to become preety bland, as the side missions offer nothing for you 
 but the same mess you had just completed 8 minutes ago, what is there left to do? Well, you can 
 search the massive city for 100 meteorites that do nothing for you, or you can participate in city 
 trials that are preety boring, the only payout being you get a medal for the deed that earns nothing 
 but bragging rights that you actually are collecting the 50 medals.
  
  What's left? Story mode... Which is the only redeeming factor of the game, not for the story aspect, 
 but because you can actually play a mission that is not the same like the hundreds of side missions. 
 You will do certain things, depending on the mission, from rescuing people from buildings, to chasing 
 down an evildoer, to combating generic thugs-wait, you already combat generic thugs in the hundreds 
 of side missions.
  
  Which brings me to another thing, combat... It is very dull. The AI is horrible... There is no 
 challenge to it. Swing your wiimote, swipe your nunchuk down to dodge, lather rinse repeat. SURE 
 you can up the difficulty, to make them SEEM tougher, but thats only on account that their DEF-OFF 
 is raised, their AI is unchanged. So now they just take longer to go down... great.
  
  Dark Spidey was a big disapointment. All he does when he transforms is get stronger... ooo... now 
 he can kill enemies in 2-3 hits!!! *yawn. Truthfully, for the first hour or two of obtaining the 
 suit, I never once activated it, because their was no virtual change but a different string of 
 combo moves that dark spidey utilizes, and the obvious strength growth. Another thing that bugged 
 me is that, he shows no dark traits during the change. Why can't I punch the generic civilians? 
 Why can't I get the cops angry at me during the process? I will tell you why, because they didn't 
 work hard at all during it....
  
  All Dark Spidey is in this game is just a costume... with strength benefits... way to go Activision.
 
  
  At least the boss battles are interesting. The only thing interesting about them however, are the 
 action sequences, which are preety fun. You follow the onscreen prompt when you are told, perform 
 the actions, reap the benefits. It's a shame that the game didn't utilize them enough, as it was 
 the only thing I was looking forward to through the whole mission as I was knocking generic baddies 
 left and right.
  
  Oh yeah, you have a skill web where you put in your Hard-Earned experience points to gain skills 
 to better spidey (but you can probably GUESS what they consist of, it's the same mess as every 
 other game; stronger attack, longer health, more combo, etc)
  
  Replayability: 5/10
  This is going to strongly depend on how you feel about the game when you play it. It offers a good 
 deal, but offers it as filler to make you waste time playing it when you get nothing out of it. 
 You can clear out all the gangs, gather all 100 meteorite fragments, take 35 pictures, and do city 
 trials to gain 50 medals, so it has content, but it has no driving force to get you to carry on 
 with it.
  
  Buy or Rent:
  Do yourself a favor. Rent. Do NOT buy this game. Why? because it lacks polish. It is rushed to 
 the defination, and it is overall boring. Buy it ONLY if you liked it when you rented it. I doubt 
 you will though, a rental is enough to get what you want out of it.
  
  Conclusion:
  I am disapointed. This game didn't fulfill any expectations I have had, and it gave me a very bland 
 and generic movie adventure that I can only describe as a boring title altogether.
  
  POINT BREAKDOWN:
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  Sound: 6/10
  Story: 6/10
  Controls: 7/10
  Gameplay: 
 6/10
  Replayability: 5/10
  
  37/60=0.6 ROUNDS TO 6
  
  Spiderman 3 scores a 6! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskillz101
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 8, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  I get a sense of deja vu when I play this game, as if I've played it two times before... Spider 
 man 3 is a fun game, but it gets a bit repetitive, and frustrating at times. Game spot gave this 
 game a 4.7, and I don't know why! I voted a 6.5, thats the least I could've given it. The graphics 
 are okay (for Wii) and a little bit underdeveloped, but who plays Wii for graphics? Not I. Though 
 the swinging gets kind of annoying and frustrating, when you hit the wrong building or take an 
 hour to travel 100 feet. and the storyline is far from enticing. the game is fun. The Hero Ability 
 thing is neat, also. I think the ability to upgrade yourself is a good idea. The announcer usually 
 jokes around, and I actually laughed a few of the times. Other than the little technical glitches 
 (which are not so much glitches are they are poorly designed) like the swinging, which can be very 
 fun, it is a fun game. The only thing that makes me turn it off is the repetitive game play. When 
 they send you on a mission, you sometimes do things over and over and its very boring. For example, 
 you have to kill guys to extinguish a bomb on a building, then you crawl on the sides of the building 
 (which gets frustrating when you fall off from the controls interfering with each other) and deactivate 
 7 others -- two times. The boss fights get old and frustrating, because you usually need to do it 
 two times if your on anything above sidekick skill level. All in all, a good game to rent, but 
 I would not buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario-Luige
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 8, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: This was the only huge downfall to the game. There were glitches like I couldn't even 
 count. One glitch even made the screen all black and I had to start a new game. Also the camera 
 control is stupid. Hold C and tilt. Why not have the angle follow you. 4 out of 10.
  GRAPHICS: The graphics were amazing. Well on a nintedo scale at least. I'm sure PS3 and 360 graphics 
 beat it by a long shot but this is nintendo so give them a break. 9 out of 10.
  SOUND: The same phrases and missions over and over make the voices blend and it just doesn; t sound 
 right. Other then that it is perfect. 7 out of 10.
  VALUE: 60$ is not worth it. WAL-MART however had it for 50$ which is more worth it. 9 out of 10.
 
  TILT: Honestly I love the game. This is my favorite spider-man game. So a 10 out of 10 on my tilt.
 
  OVERALL: A lot of flaws in the gameplay and bad voices but after you get used to it it is a pretty 
 fun game! 7.4 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killip
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 8, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  Ok when spidey 2 came out it was amazing for the 1st time ever u got to explore new york as spiderman! 
 the concept alone brought me tingles. Anyway that game was awesome then ultimate spidey came out 
 which was a walk backwards for some reason it just didn't feel as good. Now with spidey 3 we get.... the 
 same!.... only worse.. ok to explain it. You can do exacly what you can do on the 2nd game swing 
 round new york (which is slightly bigger this time) doin random missions and progresing threw the 
 story great! but where is all the new stuff? well they give you a black suit which is in the film 
 and it makes u a little bit stronger and faster. Its cool but i wouldn't call it a step forward. 
 then there is the fact that the more you play it the more noticable the glitches are (as in they 
 happen all the time!!) glitch after glitch at one point my wii froze up and i had to reset the 
 console! the character models look ugly apart from spidey and they main villans, there is some 
 nice lighting effects too. Sound is good but again when it hits pedestrian its dull and crap and 
 for some reason u get diffrent voices from the same person? wtf?. The main treat of the game is 
 swinging round as spidey with the wii remote it feels awesome to actualy use the remote to swing 
 and in most cases they use the remote to good use. Overall though the game is the same as it was 
 3 years ago only glitchier more dull and the story does not tie in with the film at all, but the 
 remote features are great fun and some times the graphics can look good. It a gamble if u buy it 
 now maybe wait till it gets cheaper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilovemiepie
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 8, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3 for the Nintendo wii is realy not much more then a rather weird attempt to make the 
 players realy feel like Spider-Man.
  
  When you, for the first time, start up Spider-Man 3 , you'll notice that luckily that this game 
 was specially created for the Wii.
  I personally think, on that point, Spider-Man 3 is one of the best games that aply the Wii's special 
 controls.
  It realy feels great to swing through the enormous city by practicly shooting weblines from your 
 controllers.
  YES, controllers, because on your choice, you will be swinging only with the Wii-mote or with both 
 the Wii-mote and nunchuck.
  I, offcourse, recommend the last option.
  Fighting is done by a combination of movements with the Wii-mote and nunchuck and the A, B and 
 Z.
  
  However, how great the swinging and fighting is, at a certain point your beginning to ask yourself 
 why the developers put so much of an efford into the game's controls and seemingly totally forgot 
 the graphics.
  Spider-Man's model is beautifull and there are some nice lightning effects but that's about it 
 when it comes to graphics.
  The water in the game looks like floting stone and sometimes buildings have the habbit of popping 
 up right in front of your face.
  Also the game's engine slows down with more then 8 characters on screen and Spidey sometimes gets 
 stuck in invisible walls.
  
  All with all, if you're a true Spider-Man fan and graphics are not the only thing you care about 
 you should definently check this game out; if you're not don't bother sticking you're web to this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brookb4644
Rating: 4.1
Date: May 8, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  This game is an insult to all other games... apart from the other crap ones. Strongly advise nobody 
 to buy this game.... unless ofcourse you have no taste in games... if you want a good wii game get 
 ssx or madden. Anything but this crap. The graphics are terrible. The gameplay is clunky. The sound 
 is the best part of the game and its still mediocre. I dont see why activision are so big... Yeh 
 they have beauties like call of duty but how can they pull something this shambolic crap out. I 
 can sya anything good about the game but i need to fill 100 words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarcusMaximus04
Rating: 1.8
Date: May 8, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  The gamespot review doesn't even come close to covering everything wrong with this game. Just about 
 everything in the game including spiderman himself looks terrible (much worse than any game I've 
 seen on the gamecube even) , glitches occur almost more frequently than things work correctly, and 
 the voice acting is beyond horrible. This game feels horribly rushed with frequent glitches where, 
 for example, someone you're carrying will suddenly dissapear and reapear floating half in the ground 
 in front of you. I don't even know what's going on with the voice acting but just about every one 
 of the people on the street has a mis-matched voice. I ran into a big fat guy with a woman's voice, 
 a woman dressed up in a suit who sounded like a male wrestler and numerous other strange combinations. 
 The brighter sides of the game came from the narration by Bruce Campbell (hilarious) , the voice 
 work of venom (which actually sounded a lot better than he did in the movie) , and the gameplay mechanic 
 of web-slinging through the city (although this existed in Spiderman 2 for the gamecube and it honestly 
 looked a lot better.) All in all this game is horrible and definately not worth the $45-$50... 
 maybe if it was free it might be worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shocker-x-
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 8, 2007 3:47 am PT
Review:  i know at this stage if time, graphics, sound, all that stuff is wanted, but this game lacking 
 in thoes catagories, grows on you, and becomes extra fun, the swining once you get used to it, 
 is like an extention of your body, the camera and combat cntrol is no THAT bad, it can be better, 
 but many people
  are yelling at the combat controlls, when personaly they dont suck that much.
  
  Graphicly 
 this version could look a tad better then what the Xbox 1 version would look like, that texture 
 thing is forgivable, considering most of the times you wont be swining that highanyways, but in 
 overal use of the textures, they look swell, for a wii game, especialy when your Wii is hooked 
 up to a 480P HD tv with the component cables.
  
  sound wise there is no that much, but it gets the job done... meh
  
  i have had a lot of fun 
 with Spiderman 3 for the wii, if you have time and a few bukc, go rent it, most likely you will 
 want to play it longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkknightFXR
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 5, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  The game deserves more than a 4.7, I gave it an 6.8... I think I was being too nice but yes, the 
 characters could use a little work, and the people could've sounded more like they're into it but 
 still the main character voices still fit the part well enough if that your one of those people 
 who just zero in on the talking and not the action going on around the place you should get a life 
 and just continue the game.
  
  Spider-man I thought looked amazing compared to the game, and for Wii graphics everything was fine 
 it's not like they can just pull off a PS3/Xbox 360 and have perfect frame rates. The combat could 
 use a little work but still if you have a brain of your own, increase difficulty of the game, and 
 try mixing up the combos yourself don't just hope the game will get fascinating doing one thing 
 over and over again, it's meant to be interactive so get interacting and not repeating.
  
  The streets could've been filled up more, the grass could've been better, but the buildings were 
 fine, and it's kinda obvious why the detail would go away when you distanced yourself, 1) it's 
 a Nintendo Wii, it wasn't built to be graphically powerful, they didn't even want to try to compete 
 they just wanted to make money 2) You can't exactly see detail from a distance... unless you got 
 some eye attachment that would give you the amazing ability to zoom in on every little piece of 
 cement and see every crack the building had. Well that's my rant and review, Overall Spider-man 
 3 satisfied my needs but not my wants so it's good enough for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilmaycryrulz
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 7, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Swinging on the webs is really fun although sometimes you go to the wrong place when swinging and 
 the graphics are bad but i would rather play a game that had really bad graphics let a really fun 
 game then play a game that has over the top graphics but be more dull then listening to your girlfriend 
 whineing about how we don't spend enough time together our some other crap. This game also has 
 pretty good wii motion control for a game that is on every system. So the game is pretty good which 
 makes the wii prove again you don't need good graphics too have a good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathwatch28
Rating: 5.4
Date: May 7, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Ok new spidy game on the Wii you say, great.
  Innovative control system you say, well lets have a look then.
  Where do i start. It feels very 
 familier if you've ever played either of the other games before with the exception of the new wii 
 mote web slinging which is harder than it looks, but after a few hours you will roughly heading 
 in the right direction of were you are ment to be going. That said i found very hard to get on 
 the rooftops in a hurry i. e. during a timed mission when it's vital to reach the roof before the 
 clock runs out.
  Graphics arn't great but its on the wii so thats expected, but explosions look nice as well as 
 the flames other than that pretty typical lookin cartoony image with half tidy textures.
  Now on to the fighting which i found almost next to imposible to hit what you want . There is now 
 lock-on system apart from some very random crosshairs that only seam to target the furthust away 
 enemy rather than the one standing next to you hitting you with a bat. It would appear that to 
 kill a group of baddies just violently wave your mote and nunchuk round until all dead.
  Also before i go i would also say that i have only just beat the first boss (which was incredably 
 frustrating) and only done a few missions and are already 25% through the game!!!????
  
  Hope i was helpful. Good luck Spidy fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FGFX
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 7, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  This game wavers between good and bad, leaning to bad. The control scheme is OK in certain parts 
 like web-slinging, thanks to the the Wii-mote. The downside: The fights are boring. You have a 
 ****load of moves, but the fighting controls, not just on the Wii, but all systems, are hard to 
 grasp. It has a medley of new villains like Lizard and Shreik, to name a few, to go along with 
 the main villains Sandman, Venom, and New Goblin. But the boss fights are too easy or too hard. 
 In one fight against Mega-lizard, you have to just roll out of the way in front of generators to 
 shock him, then you just wrangle him into the others. Some others are really hard and the button 
 thing they stole from GoW2 comes up very randomly, so you will almost certainly fail unless you 
 have a quick mind.
  
  All in all, this is not what it is hyped to be. The best part, as always, it the web-slinging, 
 but the rest is unpolished and just down-right boring at times. If you're a hardcore Spider-Man 
 fan, this is for you to sate your appetite for more web-slinging. Otherwise, this is just a rental 
 job for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnnyRageing
Rating: 8
Date: May 6, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  I Think My Head Line Says Enough, The Game Is Suprisingly good and grows on you after you get used 
 to the not too impressive graphics the amazing controll of you web-slinging, camera issuses that 
 make you wanna slap some one and ah not to responsive combat system not to mention the lack of 
 slow motion and black and white spidey sense the the 360 and ps3 versions have but too be truthfull 
 this version is very different but not really in a bad way and the game has alot of missions and 
 storyiney too get through from street crimes too petty gangs and and super villains we know and 
 love/Venom/New Goblin, SandMan KingPin And More Plus Two Additional Only for Wii. And Too Boot You 
 Get Too Switch Between Good And Not Soo Good/Red Suit/BlackSuit. But Straight Out This Verison Is 
 Just Plain Fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkHero42
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 6, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Well I must say that it is fun. I guese the side-effects are true (upplift in joy and the feeling 
 of being Spider-Man) . But the one thing that ticked me off was that the storyline was so short. 
 I just wonder why they did that. But other than that its awsome with all the new stuff you can 
 do like Black Suite. But theres another problem, why it there a time limit to using the Black Suite? 
 Seriously. But its still a fun game to play and its very challenging to do all of the stuff. Im 
 glad I got it. I still like the narrorater, hes very funny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imshoasian
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 6, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  Spider-man 3 the game for the nintendo Wii
  its out
  and people.. dont really seem to like it to much but
  dont let that keep you from giving it a 
 go
  rent it
  barrow it from a friend
  give it an hour or two
  if you dont get at least a little bit into it.. your a better man then me
  
  short story
 
  
  a decent fight system
  
  a new take on the web slingers mode of transportation
  
  and of course words of wisdom from Bruce Campbell
  
  my only real problem with this game is
 
  price... and it seemes a bit like a port from the ps2
  but that might be saying alot
  
  i had fun with this game
  -_- now i just have to collect emblems
  12-50
  not quite there.. 
 hah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goldeneye127
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 6, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  Altough the actual web swinging is enjoyable web combat is lacking it said new web combat and all 
 they did was make it suckier. Then there's the upgrade system which is ok at best. Photography would 
 be enjoyable if you didn't get wacked in the face every time you try a picture. The black suit is 
 stronger than your normal suit but you have to take it off every fifteen minutes or you pass out. 
 Storyline is 2 hours of easy enemies and and boss fights plus you get gyped on two villans Kingpin 
 and Calypso.
  I don't care about Calypso but I was looking forward to Kingpin.
  After that there's the fact that they only made the collectors edtion for Ps3 not a big tragedy 
 but still the collectors edition is kind of cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firehawk110
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 6, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  this is a great game, you can swing around town, you feel like you're spider man, people who say 
 the controls suck just suck at the game. It took me a half hour to get used to the controls, and 
 when i did it rocked. Swinging around the city is one of the most fun parts of the games, and it 
 feels so intuitive the whole time. buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it1!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthSamus
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 6, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: New moves and unlockables make it really encouraging to progress through the storyline 
 and do missions to gain hero points (yes, they're back) . Instead of gaining multiple hero points 
 at once, you fill up a meter that, once it's full, lets you unlock a 1 point upgrade or save up 
 for a better one later in the game. Web swinging is extremely intuitive, and it's fun just to swing 
 around.
  
  Graphics: Excellent, except for the occasional time when the framerate slows down. It's not enough 
 to do much, as it's only for half a second, but it is noticeable. The characters have been kicked 
 up a notch, and look great. Also, when you are swinging really high, you will notice that distant 
 buildings will lose their textures. It's not any different from the other spider man games, but 
 it can really make you think, Okaaaaaay... 
  
  Sound: All the spider-man movie themes you've grown to love. Bruce Campbell makes many more comments 
 than ever before; he really went all-out in this game. Believe me, it's a good thing. He turns 
 times when you can be frustrated fighting into a laugh. Also, the whole cast is here to voice the 
 films. The voice overs are what you'd expect, and J. Jonah Jameson still manages to be hilarious 
 in the cutscenes.
  
  Value: With a couple of unlocks and things to find, this game will leave you playing WAY after 
 you finish the game. Also, you'll continually put this game back in the Wii just to swing around.
 
  
  All in all, it's a great game that has not been getting the reviews it deserves. The controls are 
 extremely fun and intuitive, and that's what separates the Wii from the Xbox 360/PS3/PC version, 
 not the lacking storyline or graphics. If you didn't love SM2 and USM, rent it first. Otherwise, 
 do yourself a favor and ignore the reviews for once. You'll be doing yourself a favor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reggie186
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 5, 2007 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man 2, in my opinion, set some standards for what movie-based video games should be. Spidey 
 2 allowed the player to actually feel like Spider-Man, swinging through the city and protecting 
 the innocent from the villians of New York. How ironic that Spider-Man 3 for the Wii, a game thats 
 controls are supposed to make the player feel that they are Spider-Man, is a lot less effective, 
 and overall, just a much worse game.
  
  In the game, you play as Spider-Man, acting to clean up the streets of New York City. The city 
 has four gangs that rule it through neighborhood supremecy, and super villians cause mayhem in 
 various places across the city.
  
  For those who are looking for a game that allows you to play the film, Spider-Man 3 will just not 
 please. Rarely does it follow the plot of the film, and when it does it changes many things (things 
 that I will not mention, at risk of spoiling the film) . The added bosses (meaning the ones that 
 are only in the game and do not appear in the movie) are not given very interesting stories, and 
 in the case of some, not given any story.
  
  The gameplay of Spidey 3 is a little tricky. The IGN review got it right... swinging around the 
 city with the Wii controls is really fun. It works well, and is much more entertaining than anything 
 else in the game. The problem is: fighting with the Wii remote and nunchuck is tedious and awful. 
 Battles are all so by-the-numbers, and the controls really just feel sloppy.
  
  Graphics for the game seem to be a hot topic, as it is being slammed for having a low frame-rate, 
 and the game overall just looking ugly. I found that most of the actual gameplay was not that bad. 
 Swinging around the city looks like it did in Spider-Man 2 (maybe a tad better, but not much) . 
 The graphics really suffer in all of the cut-scenes, which are by far the worst I've seen on the 
 Wii. Rather than looking like Peter Parker, the figure looks like a Toby Maguire robot, with really 
 oily skin and robotic eyes. It's very ridiculous, and actually quite entertaining in how bad it 
 is.
  
  The cast of the film came to do the voices for their characters in the game, so that's very nice. 
 What's not very nice: the quips that just repeat over and over. It gets especially bad in the fight 
 with Venom, in which Topher Grace just keeps repeating the same 3 phrases over and over again.
 
  
  Speaking of that fight, difficulty in this game is really bizarre. Throughout most of the game, 
 it seems far too easy. I found that it's actually a chore to die in this game... except for in 
 that fight with Venom. That fight hits the gameplayer like a ton of bricks, because they really 
 have to step their game up. I'm not complaining because it's hard... I'm complaining because it's 
 the only hard part in the entire game, while the rest of the game plateaus at such a low difficulty 
 level.
  
  After completing the main quest in the game (which took me no longer than 7 hours) , there are various 
 things you can do. First, there is a sidequest involving snapping photos of every villian you encounter. 
 This can be a kind of fun distraction, but there's really no reason to do it, as your pictures 
 don't even save. A list of the villians appears in your scrapbook with check marks next to those 
 that you have photographed. There's no apparent reason why anyone would want to complete this quest, 
 as it doesn't seem to have any real reward. Like GTA San Andreas, the city has been overtaken by 
 street thugs, each controlling specific neighborhoods. You can take control from the gangs in each 
 neighborhood, but after a couple of trials it just proves to be very tedious work, and rather unneccessary. 
 This game isn't fun enough to warrant spending more time that you have to.
  
  Overall, this game is a huge disappointment. I can't even recommend Spider-Man 3 to die hard fans 
 of the series, as I'm 100% sure it will just disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillingRemmie
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 5, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Spiderman 3 is a missed chance because of the short gameplay but it isnt a real big problem cus 
 there will be alot of things to do after you beat this game. Swinging around and just beat stuff 
 up and jump from high buildings and stuff. It gives (me) the feeling like i beated Crackdown (X360) . 
 Not because of the gameplay but because of the free feeling and jump high.
  The graphics are not special but its one of the better graphic titles on the Wii in my opinion. 
 Maybe its a bit expensive for the short gameplay but if you hav money thats not a problem ^^
  If you like jumping and climbing and swinging around and beat up bad guys buy this game. But if 
 you wanna have a game that has a really long storyline go with Zelda or something.
  Conclusion: In my opnion a great game with some missed chances.
  
  Thanks for reading my review. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarherolover
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 5, 2007 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Much hype has been surrounding Spider-Man 3, which I have yet to see. But, it is a fact everybody 
 knows: theres always a video game tie-in. Yep, heres it. Spider-Man 3, however, is not cheap like 
 other movie games. In fact, it is great. The controls are very fun to use, and innovative in every 
 way. The graphics are good, not great though. And, on the overall, Spider-Man 3 is just a great, 
 fun game to play. A must own for most Wii owners. Spider-Man 3 for the Wii gets an 8.8 out of 10.
 
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 8
  Value: 9
  Tilt: 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAREDJR
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 5, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  The controls for swinging can be tough to get used to, but Activision and Vicarious Visions headed 
 towards a more realistic approach. Swinging can lead you in the wrong direction sometimes but can 
 be corrected once the learning curve is overcome. Graphics are both beautiful at times and just 
 plain ugly. During cutscenes characters can walk through solid objects or hover above the ground 
 when they arent supposed to. It's a good challenge overall and Spidey fans should be pleased with 
 the amount of objectives to complete. However, on the other hand some players may be distracted 
 by constant cries for help. Either way the game can be beaten in a day, maybe 8 or 9 hours tops. 
 It's fun, but hardcore gamers might reconsider buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukefartedagain
Rating: 4.1
Date: May 5, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  The controls aren't very good, especially while fighting. Web swinging takes a little time to get 
 used to, but is ultimately fun. There aren't a lot of fighting options to choose from. You basically 
 have anywhere from 3 -6 move combos that involve shaking the Wii remote back and forth.
  
  The game doesn't follow the story very closely. In fact, you only see/fight Venom at the end of 
 the game. You fight Sandman a couple times, and you fight New Goblin once. Granted this is pretty 
 much how the fights in the movie take place, these fights are boring, easy, and take only a few 
 minutes. As for the alternate story lines, they aren't worth anything. The Wii version has only 
 a handful of extra villains, including The Lizard, Morbius (a vampire) , and his wife Shriek. These 
 missions are also boring and don't tie into the main story at all. It would have been nice to see 
 some more villains like the PS3 version has.
  
  As for the sound, not the greatest. Most of the voice acting is flat and emotionless. Sound often 
 cuts out at the end of a cut scene or in the middle of a random sound byte when something else 
 is going on. Many parts of the game don't feature any music at all, which equates to a lackluster 
 adventure. Even while web swinging around the city, music rarely plays, leaving you bored and wanting 
 to quit the game.
  
  The game has waaaaaay too many loading times. After everything you do, the game takes about four 
 or five seconds to load. After you defeat a boss, load time. After you stop thugs from fleeing 
 the cops, load screen. Even when you do a crime patrol, which involves a series of goals to stop 
 a gang, a load time pops up after every step of the particular goal. This is extremely frustrating 
 and tiring.
  
  The graphics are decent. Close ups show flaws with the shading. While talking to people, the camera 
 moves to a closeup behind Spider-man. The shadows on his back are blocky and don't smooth out well 
 as he sways. The cut-scene graphics (as expected) look a lot better, especially Venom. Overall 
 the buildup of the game left much to be desired. This game could have been much better, seeing 
 as how the movie was amazing, and the other versions of the game had more to offer. It was a mostly 
 boring experience, with a few moments of happiness and excitement. If anything, I would suggest 
 renting it, because I feel like I just wasted $50. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 123dcb
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 5, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is Awsome. THe bad thing is i pre orderd it and After i got i beat in 2 days only playing 
 3 hours a day or less. This game has a few bugs and glitches. There tons of cool things you can 
 do after you beat the game. And to be honest i had no trouble with the controls and the controls 
 work great. Motion controls are very responsive. Not too easy and not too hard. This is a superhero 
 game done right. There are some serious frame rate issues someties though. There is still the problem 
 of peoples mouths not moving when they talk. I can ultimattley definetly absoulety reccomend this 
 game for anyone with A nintendo Wii. Thanks for reading my reveiw 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jediknight00
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 5, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  All right it is a good adventure game, especially cuz, Wii doesn't have all that any games. The 
 controls are tricky and hard to get used to, but once you get the hang of it it really pays off 
 and to be honest i don't see a major graphical change between this version and the 360s or PS3s 
 and i've played all of them.
  So, overall I think this game is a nice break from Zelda and Super Paper Mario, I would've given 
 it a 10 if would cost 35 bucks. I hope Gamespot makes an entirely different review for it and other 
 multi platform games on Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragon376
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 5, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  It is so sad to see such awesome controls mechanics rushed out with an unpolished game.
  
  So many ship it bugs (bugs that are not important enough to fix when running out of time) all through 
 out the game, the wii is capable of much better graphics than that, there are frame rate drop once 
 in a while and I can tell that a bunch of features have probably been cut just because the ship 
 date couldn't be pushed out since it had to come out with the movie.
  
  Not enough resource have been spent on this game. I wish companies would start treating the Wii 
 like a next gen console that is worth a full investment.
  
  On the good side, the controls scheme is wonderful, a lot of time and effort must have been spent 
 to make the controls right. This game is worth buying just for the fun of going though NY city 
 as a spider. I want to congratulate the SE's and Producers for still making the best of the little 
 time they probably had to make this game.
  
  This was a game that had the potential of getting perfecxt 10.0 score and didn't get it because 
 it is so unpolished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefan06
Rating: 7
Date: May 5, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the game was announced, I had been looking forward to it for a long, long time. Now 
 that the game is out and I've beat it, I think I can now give an honest review, so here we go!
 
  
  Graphics- Fantastic lighting and the city itself looks great. There is a lot of pop-in though, 
 but it dosen't bother me too much. Though the cinematics are rather choppy. Spidey also has a wierd 
 halo around him like the PS2 version of Spider-Man 2.
  
  Sound- Honestly, there isn't a whole lot here. There is only 3 or 4 different music tracks the 
 whole game, and the voice acting is terrible. (except J. K Simmons) I mean, come on Tobey, your an 
 ACTOR, so why not ACT instead of just saying whats on the piece of paper. Sometimes when they are 
 talking you can even hear a bit of a microphone effect, which tears it to pieces. It also dosen't 
 help that some African-Americans have Asian accents, some guys have female voices, and some females 
 have male voices. The controller speaker also makes typical web splurt sounds, but you may find 
 yourself turning it off since it can get annoying.
  
  Gameplay- I'll say it right off the bat: the controls are AWESOME. When I first did the tutorial, 
 I couldn't web swing for the life of me, but after playing for a bit, I could web-swing like a 
 pro. The fighting also holds up surprisingly well. While all the cool combos from Spider-Man 2 
 are gone, there's still a plentiful array of attacks, and almost all of them make good use of the 
 wiimote and nunchuk. Some boss fights are better then others. Some are great some are pretty generic, 
 but they're still fun. What does suck about gameplay is the random crimes. Heck, very few of them 
 even are crimes, and there are very few different types of these random crimes to begin with. Why 
 are we delivering fruit pies and posing for tourists? What happened to shootouts, carjackings, 
 and break ins? Hell, I'd even love to help that stupid kid get his stupid balloon back, as that's 
 more sinister then most things in here. One last thing about gameplay: The Black Suit. Have to 
 admit, I love the Black Suit. It looks cool, extends Spidey's health bar, attacks are stronger, 
 and you are slightly faster. You can't use it too long though, eventually you need to take it off 
 or you'll black out (no pun intended}
  
  Overall, die hard Spidey fans will go gaga over the controls and general gameplay, but most people 
 should try renting it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stixkrkm
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 5, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I love Spiderman games, but this game, Im sure, is better and easier on a different system such 
 as the Xbox 360. I actually still havent beaten the game. Swinging around the city is very equivalent 
 to Spiderman 2 the game, but more fun with the Wii controls, although it still doesnt make you 
 feel much like Spiderman still. Combat is kind of annoying and straightforward. Yeah, I am not 
 too happy of the combat system, not much of a fan. And that is what Spiderman is about too, that 
 and swinging around. In my opinion, and I'm sure other's too, this game is too similar to the last 
 Spiderman game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 4.4
Date: May 5, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  frist off my big beef is, the fighting enemy side brain dead dudes, why why cant we have enemy 
 that looks great and fights with some brains. lets see hit kick hit and they die, then off to some 
 more of the same. why do we get this kind of crap, why does companies come out with this can of 
 crap year after year, when you played games like gears of war god of war2 zelda we as game players 
 know what works and is fun to play, there is no darn way i am buying this game, i would not give 
 19 bucks for this game, a rent from gamefly for a weekend game yes, and the wii better get going 
 with something new and great here, i dont care if the wii controlls work great with web swinging, 
 not going to give 49 bucks to be swinging, give me some great games sick of this half baked stuff, 
 i want a great game, thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fang_lord
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 5, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so lets get 1 thing straight, who ever said this doesnt standf up to PS1 graphics, HAVE YOU 
 SEEN A PS1 GAME RECENTLY! FFS lo.
  
  Now, to the review:
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Spider-man 3 has some pretty nice effects, and the charatcer design of spiderman is very nice. 
 This City it self, although not as detailed as the 360 or PS3 versions, has a HUGE draw distance 
 (although as being a weaker console does have a draw distance that actually isnt noticable) , the 
 city still looks nice, there is no loading times whilst swinging around, taking a cab (you can hop 
 onto a car and hitch a ride for a bit lol) and the bad guys, well they look pretty nice to. Once 
 again, do you have any idea how bad a PS1 is? god...
  
  Camera can also get wierd, but NO WHERE NEAR as annoying as PS3 or 360 version.
  
  GAMEPLAY
 
  
  Well, the gameplay is fun... Swinging around NYC is especially fun, once you master the art of web 
 swinging, it becomes SUPER FUN, whetther you go 1 handed, or 2 handed, is up to you. The Story 
 is as GS said, loosely related to the Movie with a few marvel villians making an appearence. There 
 are loads of side missions, though can get repetitive, they are fun and exciting enough to do for 
 experience and doesnt seem like a MUST DO thing, as they are mostly optional. If you have EVER 
 played god of war, you will soon encounter a button combo styled thing, but with motion senseing! 
 These are cool, rather fun and help break up the action. To me, this game feels like a mix between 
 Spider-Man, Crack Down, and God of War, it has a sand box feel to it and has great combat, its 
 not especially tricky, but theres alot of moves that can be learnt, and alot of cool web attacks 
 (smashing an enemy into a car/building/raod sound fun???) Now, the BLACK SUIT! This evil thing 
 makes Spidy stronger, tougher, faster, and look cooler! You can literally punch a guy across the 
 street, grab him with webbing and fling him to the other side, i mean how cool is that? Also, the 
 more you use it, the more it controls you, so fight alot and be prepared to have to make a hastey 
 costume change, but its not as simple as that, you have to do a combonation of moves to do this, 
 and it gets harder and harder the more you use it... and it looks pretty cool when you try to take 
 it off :D
  
  SOUND
  
  Well the sound from the Wii mote is clean, and sounds comicy, but fits in nicely. Theres music, 
 but you tend not to hear it much. The sound effects also sound spider-man'y which is good, and 
 the voice acting is generally pretty good.
  
  CONTROLS
  
  Now, the controls are rather hard to pick up in some areas of the game, eg. Web Swinging, although 
 once you get the hang of it, it becomes easy, and second nature, which is nice. The camera controls 
 are strange, but very useable, and although not entirely practical, still easy to muster and use 
 effectivly. Attacking is simple, and quite fun, with Black spidy having a HOLE NEW arsnal of attacks 
 and combos, which makes playing as red and black very different. The controls are not glitchy, 
 but the camera can Ocasionally get in the way, but its not really that obstructive if you use your 
 head.
  
  OVERALL
  
  Being the first of its kind, id say this is a very good Sandbox Action Adventure game, with 2 new 
 bosses, and 1 extra gang to beat up in this version, it makes it that much better. The controls 
 handle very well, graphics are better than PS2 but not as good as PS3 or 360, there is NO slow 
 downs that i have encountered (unlike other versions) and i belive that this game even with its 
 few faults should definatly be added to your wii collection if you want some thing different to 
 spice up your wii experience.
  
  Overall: A solid game worth its &pound;35 price tag
  
  8.5/10 definatly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuigiEchidna
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 6, 2007 2:18 am PT
Review:  Well, sequel time already huh? As a famous zombie slayer with a sharp wit once said. Yup, thats 
 right folks; with the release of the movie and the game everyones been going Spider-Man mad. The 
 movie in my opinion was pretty good, but its up to you whether you want to see it. Does the game 
 live up to that? It does but ehnot so much. Read on in the review. Now, people are saying that 
 it does not matter with the Wii because it makes up for it with gameplay, right? Thats true. But 
 with visuals that Spider-Man 3 has, the Wii can do much better then this. Obviously were not going 
 to have visuals that can match up to the Xbox 360 or the PS3, but come on! Theyre not that bad 
 though and on the ground level they can look pretty damn detailed but somewhat jaggy. Another positive 
 point is with the Special Effects, especially with the CSI system changing the city depending on 
 your negligence or care of the city. If But when youre looking out on the Empire State Building, 
 on that beautiful morning horizon the city looks like connect the the building blocks they're that 
 bad. The models to have an improvement over Spider-Man 2 because the models for the characters 
 actually look like they have emotions, but still. Oh, did I see one pedestrian model having six 
 different voices too? Worst one out the lot. Well. what I can say about the audio and music? The 
 music is the usual fantastic action score, heck; I think I recognised some tunes from the film 
 itself but most of the time it is silent. It makes that more atmospheric however. The voices are 
 good with the movie cast. Tobey Maguire is there along with James Franco along with other members 
 of the cast, but Kirsten Dunst is basically nowhere to be found. Did she not want to do the game 
 or something? Ah well. Bruce Campbells narration is particularly entertaining.
  
  Now lets see. as far as the gameplay goes, Spider-Man 3 does extremely well. Seeing as this is 
 the Wii version, motion controls are absolutely fantastic. Your controllers, Wiimote and Nunchuk 
 are basically Spider-Mans hands. You either hold B or flick the remote to swing with one hand, 
 or hold Z and flick the Nunchuk and swing with the other hand and you use the analogue stick to 
 steer. You can still point in the direction you want to go so it is fully immersive. You also fight 
 by shaking the Wiimote in many kinds of complex positions while pressing a button, while seeming 
 simplistic, it can actually be pretty fun and I looked like a total **** trying to do the Web Rodeo. 
 You can unlock combos, but some moves from Spider-Man 2 are missing. For one, you cant web people 
 up anymore; rather you shoot web balls at them. That is missed at first, but it can still get considerably 
 annoying. You cant sit on lampposts either as well as the sprint button being missing. The charge 
 jump does return though from Spider-Man 2, which was highly more beneficial then Ultimate Spider-Mans 
 Double Jump. You can also upgrade Spidey as you go along in a similar fashion to FF10s Upgrade 
 system other then this time the grid is a web. I actually applaud Vicarious Visions for making 
 a clever system like that. Yeah, I know what youre thinking. The film had the black suit! Like, 
 can we wear it in the game?! The answer? Yes you can. Unlike the PS3 and 360 versions (according 
 to my knowledge) , you can switch between the black suit and the red and blues right off the bat. 
 Spideys strength in this suit is practically ramped up and hes awesome at fighting, but theres 
 one problem. Spend too long in it, and the symbiote starts to crawl up the screen, literally reducing 
 your vision. To get it off, you have to do motions with the Wiimote to remove it. If you decide 
 to BE A MAN, GO BLIND as a friend puts it, hell black out and youll wake up in another part 
 of the city. Combat however seems to speed up this process. This is actually a pretty clever way 
 of giving people freedom with the symbiote, and yet showing it can take a toll on you. If there 
 was any flaws or nitpicks in the gameplay it would be its justrestrictive in comparison to Ultimate 
 Spider-Man, Spider-Man 2, and the Next Gen versions. Dont get me wrong, it is still free roaming, 
 but at times it feels like a hub to many other levels. Lets do the random crimes for example, 
 instead of them happening in real time, you get a police call about them and press minus to initiate 
 the mission. Queue Loading Screen for two seconds, do mission, loading, done. Not as bad as Sonic 
 The Hedgehog for the 360 for example, but it can get annoying. The lack of Subways and and sewers 
 for free roaming instead of just in missions are missed as well. I'm still not finished yet, but 
 even after you've finished the story, the variety in side missions are still going to keep you 
 coming back for more as well as the 'Spider Emblems'. Overall, Spider-Man 3 is a good game, but 
 it falls short in some aspects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Patch5129
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 5, 2007 1:25 am PT
Review:  All in all this is a bad game, but there are things that are already making me sigh about this 
 purchase. I know one should really gripe with less then 5 hours into the game, but some thing just 
 dont feel good about it.
  
  The Controlls
  In theory, the web slinging controlls for the Wii sound great, hell, thats whey I bought this game 
 to begin with, the way the controlls are featured. But in all honesty, I spent more time gnashing 
 my teeth in frustration with the web slinging then enjoying it. I am sure there is a better way 
 to controll the directional swing, but I cant see it.
  
  Graphics
  Nintendo has always been known to put gameplay above graphics, but this game really pounded that 
 detail in. I dont know how this game looks on the PS2, PS3, or the 360, but on the Wii, it just 
 looks....... awful, be it ingame or cutscene. Just awful.
  
  Voices
  I like that the actors did star in this game for the voice overs, but hearing Tobey's voice, even 
 after a few minutes, does noting more then remind me how much I disagree with him being Spider-Man.
 
  
  Fun Factor
  I salute Nintendo for making a new and creative way to play a Spider-Man game, but like I said, 
 so far its more frustrating then entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gohoanq
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 4, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  all i know is that the graphics are.. i have to say horrible. i wouldnt even compare them to PS2 
 graphics.. maybe.. but probably PS1.. also.. i have seen a lot of bugs and glitches in it already.. sure 
 i think its pretty damn fun using the Wiimote.. but i really must say that as one of the biggest 
 spider-man fans around.. this game really does disapoint me alot.. i brought it home expecting a 
 great game.. instead i got what looks to be a poorly put together and very un thought out gaming 
 experience.. at the very least you should rent it first.. or at the very least try it out at your 
 local game store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noelveiga
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 4, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  It seems this game is a love it or hate it thing. The truth, however, seems to lie somewhere in 
 between. This isn't a broken game, but it's not actually fun except in small moments that are few 
 and far between.
  
  First, the controls are way more complex than you'd expect... in some areas. Others are actually 
 too simple. For instance, you can swing with either hand, but the direction in which you throw 
 the web line isn't the direction of your swing or even left for nunchuck, right for wiimote, it 
 seems to be determined by the analog stick. That means you need to shake your wiimote while pointing 
 with the analog stick, then switch the analog to control Spidey's arc, then switch again for the 
 next swing. Add to this two more button presses and releases to be coordinated if you want a speed 
 boost and you got yourself a control scheme actually more complex than the one on SM2. But, then, 
 you can't throw two lines at once, which makes the whole swing with both hands thing completely 
 useless. Unless the dual web is something you unlock (and I think it's not) , this is totally pointless. 
 All dual handed swinging does is make you go a little faster.
  
  On this game, Spidey seems to have wider array of potential anchor points when swinging, and some 
 points the game considers valid options are almost below or behind your character. Imagine you're 
 swinging from a very long string of rope and suddenly you get yanked backwards. Can you visualize 
 where you end up if that happens? Well, that's how swinging goes most of the time here. Also, Spidey 
 now likes longer lines, which makes his arc wider, which in turn causes you to get way off track 
 if you stick a single line to the wrong place. And streets are also wider to accomodate the longer 
 swing, which makes navigating rooftops by jumping nearly impossible. It doesn't help that the useful 
 forward jump in SM2 has been missing from the series since.
  
  You press C and tilt the nunchuk to move the camera. It works, BUT you can't use it at the same 
 time you swing or fight and this, again, renders the feature useless. In Prince of Persia you didn't 
 need to press a button to move the camera by tilting the remote. That was better. This game should 
 have abandoned the two handed swing in favor of a hand controlling the swing and the other handling 
 the camera. Combat is simplistic and repetitive, but not worse than in previous games. There's 
 just one combo that increases in length. You start it by swinging the remote, stop it by pressing 
 A, which ends it with a strong punch or an uppercut (if held) . Using webs has more options, but 
 it can't be comboed. Boss fights are a mixed bag. Most have you dealing with normal enemies while 
 you wait for the boss to set himself up for an attack. At times you have an interactive cutscene 
 that doesn't look that good and presents no challenge whatsoever, since you always have more than 
 enough time to react. Boss fights tipically happen in a wide open, flat space that looks pretty 
 bland. Having played the wonderful boss fights in Ultimate Spider-man doesn't do the ones on this 
 game any good, either. No Rhino thowing flaming cars at you this time. Graphics overall are better 
 than the PS2 version of SM2. It still has that weird halo around Spidey when he's swinging in full 
 daylight, but Spidey's model looks better. When you actually manage to make a full, high speed 
 swing, the arc is wide and nice and gives a sweet feeling of speed. You rarely manage to link more 
 than two or three of these in a row, no matter how good you get at handling Spidey. The game simply 
 makes stupid choices for you when throwing webs.
  
  The city does pop up more than in previous games. It goes really flat really fast, so if you take 
 time to look down from above the view is awful. It looks a bit better close up, and the game seems 
 to try to stay away from open views, which is probably a bad choice. There are also a few annoying 
 glitches. For instance, Spidey doesn't seem to be able to climb to the top of the Daily Bugle building 
 just by moving up. He gets to the small ledge on the top and falls back off. You need to jump way 
 over the rail to get there, and you'll be going there a lot, so you'd better develop a way to reach 
 it without climbing (as I said, harder to land on top of things this time around) . This happens 
 often on surfaces that are smaller than Spidey himself, and gets really annoying. Even on non-glitched 
 surfaces you can easily slip, since the web-zip move is mapped to B+Z, but Z is also the jump button 
 and it will make you jump away from the wall if your timing is a bit off. Other annoyances include 
 the black suit itself, that works as a power up instead of a plot point. You trigger it and it's 
 good for a couple of minutes, until a bar fills and you start getting dizzy from it and have to 
 do a minigame to go back to the normal suit (losing the extra life and strenght and resetting your 
 adrenaline bar) . The minigame gets more difficult later in the game, consuming more time and making 
 it harder to change suits in the middle of a fight. It also seems to be a short game. In 2 hours 
 I got to a 25% completion rate on the main story, and I took it easy on the plot missions. It only 
 has 5 of the 10 storylines of the 360, PC and PS3 versions.
  
  Battling the gangs is boring and even more tedious than the old random events. You still get random 
 events, but this time they're global. You hit a button to start them, get teleported to the place 
 and solve them. Gang fights are similar to Ultimate Spider-man combat tours in that you have to 
 do several small missions in a row. The problem is these missions are often as pointless as the 
 old city missions, or more. They include a whole lot of delivering delicious fruit pie , straightforward 
 combat and actually lots of missions that only make you go a place and open an object. Doing one 
 of these gang tours will give that area to the police. After a while you'll see a prompt and the 
 areas on the map will change as in a board game to represent changes in control areas. Areas you've 
 cleared always go to the police, and the rest change more or less at random (though the game lets 
 you predict the next moves so you can influence them) . The idea is nice, but the actual missions 
 are boring and strangely paced, so the system as a whole is boring and more annoying than interesting. 
 You don't HAVE to do the missions, but they give XP, which is needed for upgrades (and if you don't, 
 people will start insulting you when they see you) . Besides, free roaming crime solving is the 
 whole point of this game. Which is my next annoyance. The game doesn't feel free-roaming. It has 
 a small loading time whenever you start or end a mission, which is fine, but it also has a fade 
 to black that breaks the pace. And since there are no real-time crimes on the city and you need 
 to sit through one of these loading screens every single time something happens, the game feels 
 like an empty hub-city that takes you to each level instead of a living metropolis. I haven't played 
 the Treyarch game (my PC won't run it and I don't have a next-gen console) , but I'm sure it's actually 
 a good game. This one isn't. It's not Superman 64, by far, but it's your average movie license. 
 Vicarious Visions fails again to develop an interesting game. Their name on the box pretty much 
 means a bad game is inside at this point.
  
  Oh, and the mistery PS2 version nobody talked about during development? It's this game. A port. 
 Probably looks worse, though, because the one thing this one does right is using the shader upgrades 
 in the Wii to do some nice lighting on characters (a bit like Red Steel did) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kungphooey
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 25, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  ahh, spiderman one was so fun. simple, fun, lots of cool combat moves and some fun in the web zipping 
 department, Shocker and green goblin were fun to beat up and throwing thugs off buildings just 
 never got old.
  
  Then spiderman 2 came out in a freeroam city, boy that was amazing. That game improved on the 1st 
 in every way, except combat was simplified a bit and character models were a bit off once and a 
 while.
  
  Now 3 is out, and it is god awful. This game has "made by three stupid people in a week" written 
 all over it. The game has two highlights, minigames and..... well i guess theres only one highlight 
 then. 
  
  graphics are awful, gameplay is awful, story is awful, music and voice acting are brutal.
  
 
  Star fox 64, a ten year old game, looks better, plays better, has a better sence of speed, and 
 has better voice acting. I'll take slippy over mary jane any day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geetarz451
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 15, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  alright, now that i've played the entire game, my view has changed significantly. though the use 
 of the wii remote and nunchuck is intuitive and is definitely fun, ive noticed many bugs and ive 
 noticed when swinging high up in the city, windows and details on the buildings take a vacation (only 
 happens during daylight) .. we all know the wii can handle that so its a little disappointing to 
 see that happen to NYC in this game. the missions get kind of boring and repetitive and its a little 
 strange how when you're returning a purse you got back from a mugger, you return it to a man..!?! 
 overall, if you really really want this game, get it when the price drops. i expected a lot more 
 and that's why i jumped on it, and i have to say, i almost regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSPplayer04
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 28, 2007 10:29 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game...
  It controllers very good. I bought this game today and I can say I got my moneys worth. I love 
 web slinging around the city with the nunchuk and wii mote.
  If you like Spider Man movies get this game even if you did not like the Spider-Man 1 and 2 games... 
 This is different in a good way.
  
  Graphics - They aren't ps3 graphics but that was expected and the controls make up for it.
  
 
  Gameplay - Game play is pretty good. I like the fights
  
  Controls - Best part of this game. The web slinging is good, the fighting controls are a plus to
 
  
  Sound - The sound is great it puts good use to the wiimote's speaker.
  
  Value - Well worth $50
  
  Tilt - I dont know what tilt is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blk-Gnome
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 4, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Now, this is just my personal opinion from things i have encountered in the game as of now (approximately 
 60mins of play time) .
  
  GamePlay: This is how spider-man was meant to be played. the controls take some getting use to, 
 but once you have them down it makes the game that much better. you now feel like spider man, not 
 just a player. swinging through New York feels great, the combat is a little blan but with some 
 power ups you can get cooler moves that spice it up a little.
  
  Graphics: it shows the SM3 team didn't spend their time to pump out state of the art graphics (yes 
 the wii could do much better) but they also designed the game to get back to the cartoon. this 
 is very apparent during the night with all the buildings with their lights on (reminds me of the 
 cartoon so much its not even funny) .
  
  Sound: so far its the usual smack sounds and such, you can hear the wind rushing past you as you 
 web sling around the city. its pretty good but your not gonna be blown away with how this game 
 sounds.
  
  Length: this game looks to be pretty short if you just rush through the story line, 1 hour and 
 14% complete. so I'm taking it easy, and just powering spidy up. so it wont be terribly long, but 
 you can increase the length by trying to get spider mans abilities maxed out or just swing through 
 the city for a while (which is so much fun, you never know how hes gonna swing. Personally i just 
 alright turn here, now here... so much fun)
  
  overall, i would suggest picking this game up if your looking for a fun game for the wii, or just 
 a spider-man fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camble
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 4, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Spiderman 3 Wii Controls
  
  I bought Spiderman 3 today for the Wii. It reminds me of the Playstation Spiderman game that was 
 heavily based on the comics. Not because it looks similar or is closer to comics than previous 
 Spiderman games, but because I feel like a homonculus at the end of the web as I try to swing through 
 the city. The Wii controls are really well done. Attacking is not haphazard wand waving, but precise 
 combo control through controlled movements. The web swinging, which seems to define this games 
 appeal, is hard, but in a good way. I had gotten used to playing Spiderman games so that after 
 the first game for PS2 that was based on the first movie, I was able to pick up Spiderman 2 and 
 Ultimate Spiderman and start swinging like a pro after just a few minutes of reaclimation to the 
 controls. Not this time. Now I am having to work to gain full control of my Spidey powers, a task 
 that immerses me in the game rather than putting me off. Not only do you control each hand when 
 web swinging using the nunchuck and remote flicks, but the webs are smart. They will only attach 
 to actual objects, and the web shoots in the direction you point either hand when flicking web. 
 This leads to an overwhelmingly immersive feeling as the world around you becomes touchable through 
 these webs. It is truly an amazing feeling. Oh yeah, any doubters about the graphic capabilities 
 of the Wii should be won over by this game. Spiderman's suit is bright, shiny and colorful. I'm 
 sure that the PS3 and the XBOX360 will boast that there system has better, more polished Spiderman 
 3 editions, but for my money, the Wii's graphics look damn good (and I don't even have it connected 
 with any better cables than what came in the box) . The price of the system and the game is lower 
 on the Wii, and it comes with the awesome control scheme. Who cares if the graphic quality is a 
 little bit lower? It's like the difference in cassette tapes and CDs in that there is a difference, 
 but it is so subtle that the difference is only noticed by those who are looking for it. So far, 
 I think this is my favorite Wii game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christoff14
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 4, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  here to have a look at User review, but to my disbelief there were non. This may be because the 
 game was released today, maybe not. Anyhow, I decided to go and buy it anyway BEST GAME ON THE 
 WII, it's easy for me to say this as i only have this and wii sports at the moment, but i've played 
 most of the games released, owned between me and my mates and this is my favourite.
  
  The controls, although at first are hard to get used to, are amazing. I thought the godfathers 
 controls were impressive, but it's met it's match. i also thought the graphics would be a bit 'meh' 
 but they're the best that i've seen yet . The sounds of the game are also great, a 'pow' as you 
 hit an enemy, a 'whoosh' as you swing, everything that you could want.
  
  After only 40 minutes of play i would recommend this to anyone and infact, if you played and just 
 'enjoyed' the second spiderman game, controls aside, you'll LOVE this game.
  
  The time spent playing is just an estimate, and i've only had the easy bits so far, which get you 
 straight into the game.
  
  The attributes I've given it may seem a bit strong, but from what I've seen in wii games so far 
 this is what I'd give it. I've given it a 10 for tilt because my first impression is amazing, and 
 the value is because of all of the content available from what I can see.
  
  Cheers for reading, Chris 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
