-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: SSX Blur
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/ssxblur/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Cartoon-character look fits the game.
 learning curve is mostly spot-on.
 basic controls are excellent.
 great music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Ubertrick controls are inconsistent.
 slalom events can be frustrating.
 occasional animation hitches, frame-rate issues.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 27, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 7.5, 61 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 869 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports Big
Developer: EA Montreal
Genre: Snowboarding
Date: Feb 27, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
SSX Blur has its moments, both joyful and frustrating, but it winds up being a solid entry in the 
 SSX series. 

  When the original SSX launched for the PlayStation 2 back in 2000, it included an in-your-face 
 logo screen of EA Sports Big that was complete with a big, booming voice pronouncing the name of 
 the publisher in no uncertain terms. Seven years later, the SSX series has debuted on the Nintendo 
 Wii with SSX Blur, but both the logo and the voice talent have mellowed -- less Danzig and more Dan 
 from accounting. To a certain extent, the same is true for the game itself. While SSX Blur has 
 moments of frustration that will have you raising your own voice, it remains another solid -- if 
 a bit more mellow -- entry in the SSX series.  

          Forget the poles and skis. All you need to hit the slopes in SSX Blur is your Wii Remote 
 and Nunchuk.     

  Certain ingredients in the SSX formula never change. Your goals in Blur remain the same: tackle 
 a number of challenging snowy peaks in a variety of events and tournaments that run the gamut from 
 straight downhill blasts to the finish line to trick events that have you pulling off increasingly 
 more complex tricks. You must do all this while taking on a colorful cast of characters, many of 
 whom have returned from previous entries in the SSX series.  

  While you won't feel out of sorts in the SSX events, the controls are a different matter entirely. 
 As you might expect from any game on the Wii, SSX Blur controls very differently from the other 
 games in the series, as well as any snowboarding game you've ever played. The good news is that 
 for the most part the controls work beautifully. You use both the Wii Remote and the Nunchuk accessory 
 to control your character; the Nunchuk does the lion's share of controlling your character when 
 his or her board is touching the ground, and the Wii Remote controls your character when he or 
 she is in midair. When the controls work well, such as steering your character by using a combination 
 of the Nunchuk analog stick and titling the controller left or right, it feels really good, adding 
 an entirely new dimension and feel to zipping down the mountains. The sensitive controls are buoyed 
 by fine character animations that show off each bump and undulation on the peaks, giving you a 
 real sense of being on the mountain.  

  Unfortunately, the trick controls don't always keep up, although the basics are there. For example, 
 to execute a jump, you simply move the Nunchuk controller up quickly or press the A button on the 
 Wii Remote. Once in the air, you move the Wii Remote in any direction, and your character will 
 respond with a variety of flips and spins that at first feels like a revelation. But after a while, 
 it begins to feel more than a bit random. Sooner or later, you stop caring about the exact trick 
 you're pulling off and begin moving the remote around in a random fashion, watching your character 
 pull off increasingly bizarre strings of moves that often seem disconnected from the controller. 

  The ubertricks are the worst offenders. To gain access to ubertricks, you have to fill up your 
 "groove" meter by pulling off tricks. Once you've gained enough groove, you can attempt an ubertrick 
 by holding down the A button and tracing a pattern with your Wii Remote. Small pattern icons pop 
 up onscreen, indicating various ubertrick patterns in your arsenal (and you can earn more ubertricks 
 as you progress through the game) . While you can get away without mastering ubertricks early in 
 the game, you won't get very far in the late tournaments without mastering at least a couple because 
 they provide huge point bonuses over your standard tricks. Here's the problem though: They don't 
 always work. We were able to get only the most basic of ubertricks to work on a regular basis and, 
 even then, not so much. It's almost as if the developers understand how tough the ubertricks are 
 because the game provides you with an ubertrick tutorial and a feature that let's you practice 
 patterns over and over (and over) in an ubertrick menu screen until you get it right. Whether it's 
 a matter of the Wii Remote not being sensitive enough, the trick patterns being too complex, or 
 some combination, ubertrick controls in SSX Blur feel like a failed experiment.  

          Race events in Blur are no-frills, suicide dives to the bottom of the hill.     

  If 
 you can manage to keep your Wii Remote strapped to your wrist (as opposed to smashed against the 
 wall in frustration) , you'll find the rest of Blur an enjoyable ride. For one thing, the learning 
 curve in the game is excellent (ubertricks notwithstanding) . Early in the game, the races are easy, 
 and the demands on your trick ability are minimal. However, it won't be long before you're regularly 
 tackling halfpipes for 800,000 points or more at a pop. One notable exception is the slalom events, 
 which seem abnormally difficult from the get-go and only get worse as the tournaments continue. 

  As has always been the case in SSX, Blur has tons of unlockables to explore, including new characters, 
 new outfits, new tricks to learn, and new skis or snowboards to pick up. The game is also well 
 organized. You can simply drift about on the snow, picking up challenges as you make your way down 
 the slopes, or you can make your way to specific areas of the three peaks in the game, which will 
 then automatically enter you into that competition. Finally, if you want instant access to the 
 different events, you can access all of the slope events and tournaments from a menu. The game 
 has a few too many loading screens, but getting from one event to the next is not too bad.  

  SSX Blur's game modes are straightforward. The single-player game features a tutorial to get 
 you used to the controls, a quick-play option to get on the mountain quickly, and a career mode 
 where you take control of any unlocked rider to compete in events and tournaments. Competing in 
 these events helps to improve your character's attributes. Multiplayer consists of either split-screen 
 competition in race or trick events, or hotseat events where players take turns in events and compare 
 high scores.  

  While elements of Blur will feel familiar, namely the recycled tracks, the game's art style feels 
 fresh. The character designs are more cartoonlike than before, which suits the Wii's aesthetic 
 just fine. The characters are animated beautifully, and little touches, such as a character being 
 covered with snow head to toe after a wipeout, are fun to see. Despite an overall fine sense of 
 speed to the downhill action, there are occasional frame-rate hitches that can drag things down. 
 In addition, it's not uncommon to get your character temporarily stuck in a corner (say, between 
 the edge of a cliff and a rail) . If you exit the playable area, the game also has a tendency to 
 warp you to strange spots. For example, during one slalom race we entered, we went over the side 
 of a cliff, only to be respawned far away from any of the remaining slalom flags. Worse yet, we 
 weren't penalized for missing those flags.  

          Ubertricks look great... when you can pull them off.     

  Another consistent feature 
 in the SSX series has been high-quality sound design, and that's still the case with SSX Blur. 
 The sound of the board meeting the snow is excellent, varying between the soft swish of powder 
 and the crackling skid of sheets of ice. The music, upbeat and slightly funky as always, is also 
 excellent in Blur. It morphs and twists with the various successes and failures of your jaunt downhill. 

  It's too bad that SSX Blur's controls are so uneven, because if not for the maddeningly inconsistent 
 ubertricks, Blur would be a sure thing. Unfortunately, there's nearly as much frustration to be 
 derived from this inconsistency as there is pleasure from the other quality features in the game. 
 This doesn't mean you shouldn't go out and pick up the game if you're a longtime SSX fan or a Wii 
 owner looking to get your snow sports on; it just means that you should know what you're getting 
 into beforehand.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (105 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  With so many Wii games suffering teething trouble as developers wrangle with motion-controlled 
 gaming, SSX Blur is here to show everyone how it's done. Instead of trying to mimic the controls 
 of the normal game with the Remote, the developer has completely rethought the way the game is 
 handled.
  
  Your boarder is manipulated almost entirely with the Nunchuk. You steer by tilting the Nunchuk 
 left and right and push the analogue stick back and forward to accelerate and brake. Yes, you could 
 steer with the analogue stick but this tilting system feels spot-on - you really feel like you're 
 twisting that board and making it slice into the snow. 
  
  
  Once you leap into the air, which can be done either with an upwards flick of the Nunchuk or by 
 pressing A, the Remote springs into action. Flipping it left or right sends your boarder into a 
 spin, while up and down movements make him perform somersaults and backflips. And a nice new feature 
 for Wii owners is the ability to throw snowballs - just hold B to scoop some snow and flick the 
 Remote to lob it at your target. 
  
  Uber tricks are back too, this time performed by gesturing with the Remote after charging up your 
 Groove meter. As always with SSX, the courses allow you to throw yourself ridiculously high into 
 the air, at which point drawing a large '0' with the Remote, for example, will get your boarder 
 spinning like a windmill. 
  
  This control scheme works brilliantly and the feeling that you're actually snowboarding is enhanced 
 by terrific use of sound and graphics. With gorgeous snow effects, detailed characters, fog and 
 solar glare, as well as a pumping soundtrack, SSX Blur is one of the Wii's best audio-visual treats.
 
  
  It's All A Blur
  Our only problem with Blur is the fact that the gameplay modes don't have much new to offer. The 
 single-player career works just as before - there are three peaks on which you prove your dominance 
 by winning events. These challenges will be familiar to fans, with half-pipes, stunt runs and races 
 on offer. 
  
  The multiplayer modes let you race split-screen with another player or you can take it in turns 
 getting your highest score in a stunt run. Both modes work well, although they're nothing out of 
 the ordinary. Fans might even recognise some of the courses as a selection of the best tracks from 
 previous games are here (albeit with a few new runs) . 
  
  Despite this old content, the hip graphics and awesome controls make SSX Blur feel like a great 
 new game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wescash
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  SSX Blur provides the adrenaline rush that you'd want in a snowboarding game. This is one of few 
 games that I can say I really enjoy playing with the wii controls. It takes awhile to get used 
 to it, but once you are carving down the mountain and performing triple flips off snowbanks, it's 
 impossible to imagine playing any other way. Move with the nunchuk, flip and spin with the wiimote. 
 Hold z to boost or grab, c to manual, and jump with the flick of a wrist. It feels so natural and 
 really makes the experience more intense.
  The graphics are nice and clear, and some of the soundtrack music is pretty catchy. The announcer, 
 DJ atomica, does tend to repeat himself, but I never felt myself getting tired of hearing some 
 of the cheesier lines. The multiplayer is fun, there are plenty of modes and courses to play, but 
 the lack of computer AI means only 2 player races and that hurts the quality a bit.
  The one player is where the game shines, with a nicely done overworld and tons of races, halfpipes, 
 jumps, and slaloms to participate in and get to the next tournament. SSX Blur is always challenging, 
 especially on the slalom levels, but the more you play the better you get. 
  Ubertricks are interesting. Wave the wii remote/nunchuk or both in a pattern to perform a specific 
 ubertrick and watch your points soar. I found them easy enough to pull off, and you can practice 
 them if you are really stuck.
  Overall, SSX Blur is a good game and it captures the snowboarding and skiing mechanism perfectly. 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: travisstaggs
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game in a Gamecrazy bargain bin brand new for 20 bucks, SSX Blur is fun once you 
 get use to the controls which are hard to get use to somewhat, this is the first SSX Game I have 
 played, yes I know theres more out, alright on with the review.
  
  Graphics: 10/10 The Graphics are great cell-shaded style graphics pretty much, the mountains feel 
 real.
  
  Gameplay: 8.5/10 This game is very fun, but the controls take awhile to get use to, if you keep 
 practicing and practicing andddd practicing you'll eventually pick them up very well, the nunchuck 
 controller does very well for the most part with this game, and the multiplayer is to shabby either.
 
  
  Sound: 10/10 I loved the music in this game very cool. wow, I sounded cheesy just then. 
  
 
  Replay Value: 8.5/10 replay value is very high if you have a friend thats will to play this with 
 you.
  
  Overall: 8/10 this game is great for its 20 bucks or less price tag and one of the few third party 
 wii games that doesn't completely suck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanim02
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  The SSX franchise started it's life on the PS2 when SSX 1 was released along with it at launch 
 in 2000. It was a revolutionary game with sweet graphics. Fast-forward to 2008, you notice how 
 much milking the franchise has had, so it would be only natural for EA to release yet another SSX 
 on the hottest console in the market. The end result is mainly one of fun and frustration.
  
  Design:
  
  Pros: Smooth user-friendly interface, Great deal of modes to play, Hot-seats 
 gives other players a chance to play, Top-notch SSX fun.
  
  Cons: No online-play, Very steep learning curve from the start.
  
  Score: 7.0/10
  
  The 
 SSX franchise has always been about going down a slope as fast as possible and being as stylish 
 as possible and Blur is no different. The game pits you with the same features as the previous 
 entries of the series, though the only gripe is that there is no online-play in the game. Seeing 
 as the Wii is capable of online-gaming and how the previous entries of the SSX series had online-play, 
 Blur just seems like a GC version of the series. The game does offer multi-player up to 2 players 
 split-screen and a cool feature found in most party games called the Hot-seat so that everyone 
 gets a fair share of playing. The interface is very cool and easy to use. It feels like you're 
 using a mouse as you click and select options. The game does have a hefty learning curve and will 
 take a lot of patience for anybody to enjoy the game to it's fullest.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Pros: The motion controls work!, Trick system isn't too hard to get used to, The game just feels 
 like it's made for the Wii.
  
  Cons: VERY HARD!!
  
  Score: 6.0/10
  
  There are always two things that matters when it comes to decent gameplay. One of them is that 
 it's playable and Blur succeeds with flying colors. The game works very well with the motion-controls 
 and feels very good just going down a slope with nothing but skillz. The game just feels like it's 
 made for the Wii and that's a huge accomplishment right there, seeing as many Wii titles just don't 
 feel right at home on the Wii. The other thing that matters most is a decent difficulty and that's 
 where the game fails to deliver. It truly is a game for the hardcore and it shows. The controls 
 aren't complex but if you go into the tutorials menu you will see so many thing you have to master, 
 it's ridiculous. It took me a whole weekend just getting decent with the controls but then there 
 is smart AI and the further you get on the peeks, the better and smarter become the AI. The game 
 certainly isn't impossible, but it's very difficult. Besides that, the game works very well with 
 the Wii mote. Many of the franchises main deals are back such as tricks, railing, half-pipes, etc. 
 The trick system is pretty simple, but the game doesn't offer the great amount which was offered 
 by SSX Tricky on the Xbox. All in all, good use of the Wii mote, but complicated as hell!
  
  Presentation:
  
  Pros: Sweet animation, Nice powder effects, A very glossy/stylish look, 
 Great music, Amazing sense of speed, All in all one of the best production values on the Wii.
 
  
  Cons: Some annoying textures here and there, A few clippings.
  
  Score: 8.5/10
  
  When people say the Wii can't handle next-gen graphics, they really don't have to when they can 
 simply make their games look much more stylish and colorful. SSX Blur is by far, one of the best 
 looking 3rd party games on the Wii, which isn't a port. As stated above, the game looks very stylish, 
 sounds very good and just has a sense of speed like no other. The game has a few clippings here 
 and there, but all in all the production values are very high with this one.
  
  Trash or not?
  The SSX series has been down hill for a while and this title is no mold breaker, 
 although, no matter what, it's one of the better 3rd party contributions to the Wii and really 
 shows the Wii can look just as sexy as most 360/PS3 titles. Sure the game may have a steep learning 
 curve and has no online-play but the motion controls, once mastered, feel very rewarding and the 
 game just looks spectacular and just hits the spot filled with the better Wii games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CodeBlack3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first, you might be reading the reviews seeing people saying "This game's controls are WAY 
 too hard". Well, they're not. The most common thing I've seen is that the tricks are too hard to 
 land, and yes they are, if you don't hit the A button before landing. The A button, for those of 
 you who didn't read the instruction book, will position your character for landing. 
  
  Ok, that was just there in case you might not get this game because of the complaints about the 
 controls, but now on to the actual review. 
  
  This game has amazing gameplay, with easy and challenging difficulties. In the end the game is 
 hard, because of the platinum medals that are required to beat the game 100%. These medals are 
 much different from the gold medal points. For example, in the Compilation Halfpipe, the scores 
 generally are around 400,000-500,000 points; I have gotten the platinum in that course, after getting 
 a some 3 million plus score. Like I said- major change.
  
  The controls in the game, as I said at the start, are pretty simple. The only harder control in 
 the game I found were the Ubertricks, or tricks that score the highest amount of points. To pull 
 of an Uber, you must first get your Uber meter to the right at level 3 or above. Afterwards, get 
 high enough in the air, and draw and Ubershape. If you drew it correctly, you will pull off an 
 Ubertrick. The shapes can be a little tough to draw sometimes, but if you draw a simple shape good 
 enough, your character will do a harder Ubertrick, giving you more points.
  
  The graphics in the game are nothing special compared to the PS3. The sound is great, and so is 
 the music. The DJ adds comedy, generally though by saying things that make no sense at all.
  
  Overall, it's a good buy. The only things I will complain about is one, some of the courses 
 can get a bit annoying. And two, the collectibles in the game can be very annoying, and will be 
 required to unlock the Yeti outfit. 
  
  For those of you who are family friendly, here's some concerns you might have. The game does involve 
 the comic mischief as in the rating, but they're not very bad with things such as throwing snowballs 
 at your opponents. Violence wise, i just said- snowballs. But that shouldn't harm anyone. The only 
 other thing is sexual content. One of the women characters slightly shows her stomach, but you 
 have to look very closely to really even see, so I don't get bother at all by it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VGobbsesser
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 29, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Started back in 2000, the SSX franchise almost remains to be a genre on its own. After all, how 
 many other snowboarding franchises can you think of? Fortunately for being in a class of its own, 
 each new installment turns out to be a solid title, and SSX Blur for the Wii is here to continue 
 that traditionif you can call it "traditional." SSX Blur attempts to be a "best-of" game, mixing 
 up some of the tracks from yesteryear for a new release, and giving the entire game a fresh new 
 styIe, but the real deal breaker here are the new Wii remote controls. The final product remains 
 to be rough around the edges, but it hits the nail on the head in so many places, SSX Blur may 
 have you pining for a sequel.
  
  The modes in SSX Blur are more-or-less back in one form or another. There's the "Quickplay" mode, 
 allowing you to squeeze a couple quick rounds of play whenever you'd like. There's "Multiplayer," 
 allowing two people to race against one another split-screen, or allowing up to four people to 
 participate in the turn-based "hotseat." The "Career" mode returns again, where you'll be spending 
 the majority of your time, and finally, there's a "Tutorial" mode, which plays a much more significant 
 role more so than any other SSX game. 
  
  The most jarring change in the latest installment is the new Wii remote control scheme. Titles 
 like Super Mario Galaxy and The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess kept the core control scheme 
 of their predecessors, adding a few "Wii" twists in places only to benefit the overall package, 
 but SSX Blur throws away most of the comfort of familiarity concerning controls, and goes back 
 to square one to create a unique (if foreign) method of control.
  
  Even the trivial action of moving left and right has been shaken up. Movement is dictated by tilting 
 the Nunchuck attachment in conjunction with the analogue stick, with grinding on rails functioning 
 similarly. Jumping is handled by quickly flicking the Nunchuck up. The "on the ground" tricks stick 
 with the usual button commands, occasionally with some of other means of input; board presses, 
 for example, comprise of pressing the C button and tilting the analogue stick up or down, and pressing 
 the "B" button with a flick of the Wii remote causes your character to throw a snowball, which 
 are quite handy in distracting any competitors.
  
  The "in the air" trick system has received the brunt of the revamp. While in the air, quickly flicking 
 the Wii remote left, right, up, or down results in a different move. Tilting the Wii remote up 
 results in a back flip, tilting to the left results in a spin in the air, and so on and so on. 
 Grabs are done by holding the "Z" button, and quickly tilting the Nunchuck in any direction (with 
 the analogue stick used to "tweak" the grab) . Your groove meter fills up as you perform more tricks 
 throughout the race successfully, which will allow you to boost and perform Uber moves.
  
  Uber moves, which are lavish, cinematic tricks that serve to give you tons of points and just look 
 cool, are executed by "drawing" a shape in the air while holding the "A" button. The catch while 
 performing any type of trick is to "cancel" them at the right moment; because tilting the Wii remote 
 lacks any force feedback or tactile feel to "end" a trick like an analogue stick would, the "A" 
 button functions to end any trick, allowing you to either start a new one, or prepare for a landing. 
 If you don't manage to "cancel" in time, you'll end up crashing to the ground, resulting in you 
 having to shake the Wii remote and Nunchuck to recover.
  
  If it sounds like a challenging control scheme, it is. Most companies have touted their games are 
 "easy to pick up and play," but SSX Blur demands patience and practice to master itperhaps more 
 than some will be willing to handle. The change is so dramatic, it is inevitable that some will 
 never adjust to this wildly different means of control, and the game gives you little in terms 
 of customization. The most you can do is either to choose the option of skis (which results in 
 a fairly modest change of tricks and a new button for pivoting) , and the option to adjust the sensitivity 
 of the Nunchuck-analogue movement. The most you can do is allow full analogue control, but this 
 seems against the spirit of the new control scheme.
  
  Those willing to master their skills and spend a few hours in the Tutorial, however, will find 
 that the new control scheme is a bit more rewarding. Because you are in full control of everything, 
 it's much easier and much more satisfying to do the exact trick you'd like.
  
  Adversely, the new control scheme has a couple of problems. Because the trick system is centered 
 on waving the Wii remote, it's just as easy to flail your arms around, and still rack up a lot 
 of points. Experts will enjoy the accuracy it can give you, but others will dislike the temptation 
 of redundancy. And sadly, the Uber moves system is inconsistent. It's thrilling when you can execute 
 them, as they look great, but around half the time, it's unresponsive, or registers the wrong shape. 
 There will be times where you will tire yourself out trying to draw a shape in the air when nothing 
 is accomplished.
  Overall, while the new control scheme gives the game a "love-it-or-hate-it" vibe and has a number 
 of quirks, it can deliver a great sense of satisfaction, and adds a good deal of challenge to the 
 game.
  
  Which is good, because (with the exception of the slalom event) a bulk of the game isn't overly 
 difficult. You'll be spending most of your time in the "Career" mode, where you can travel across 
 the peaks, and compete in certain challenges and tournaments. The main three events (Race, SlopestyIe, 
 and Half-Pipe) aren't very difficult on their own, and oftentimes, the main challenge can be completing 
 them under the time limit. The slalom event, however, is sadistically hard. It centers on weaving 
 in and out between flags, but the turns required are far too demanding. Luckily, the control scheme 
 is not part of the problem in this respect, as the challenge is just as high with full analogue 
 control. All of these modes extend to the "Quickplay" mode, and some to the "Multiplayer" mode.
 
  
  The track designs are solid, but also contribute the relative ease of the in-game challenges. Almost 
 all of the stages are returning tracks from the previous games, with a few additions and alterations 
 here and there. While they are good, there isn't much in the way of variety; most of the stages 
 are just downhill treks down a snowy mountain, and none have any demand of urgency or variety like 
 the latter tracks of the previous SSX games. The track design is solid nonetheless, but it feels 
 oddly subdued.
  
  Similarly, the styIe and audiovisual presentation also feels a bit subdued, but this may be due 
 to the new cartoon look. SSX Blur looks slick, offering some great bloom and lighting effects, 
 and the entire game has a pleasant cartoon look to the game, which adds to a slightly more inviting 
 atmosphere. The new cartoon look, however, doesn't deliver as big of an impact as the previous 
 "teenager" look, which is a small trade off. There are just a handful of blemishes in the game, 
 such as a few frame-rate dips or low-polygon boulders, but they do little to detract from the experience. 
 The game has 16:9 and 480p support, which will be appreciated by those with higher-end televisions. 
 
  
  The audio, composed by Junkie XL, adds a dynamic feel to the game, as it morphs and changes as 
 you race, oftentimes getting stronger when you are doing well, and outright stopping when you come 
 to a halt. Much of the audio sounds great and catchy, but it lacks a bit of punch, as much of the 
 morphing and music itself is a bit "softer" and subtler. The menus are colorful and easy to use, 
 but are a bit simplified, since they are comprised of large, awkward shapes, and some of the screens 
 also suffer from the dreaded "a little too small to read" text. The audiovisual presentation is 
 great, and is perhaps one of the best on the Wii, but like much of the game, it's difficult to 
 shake the feeling that it's being held back.
  
  The game offers a great deal of replay value, as the "Career" mode has enough challenges and tournaments 
 to keep you busy for a while, and also offers a ton in the way of unlockables, such as concept 
 art or even entirely new tricks. The "Quickplay" and "Multiplayer" modes will also entertain you 
 long after you're finished with the "Career" mode.
  
  A couple of the design choices, such as the subdued track design and presentation, are questionable, 
 and the control scheme still isn't quite perfect, but the entire game is so well-done, you will 
 find hours of entertaining gameplay in SSX Blur. The foundation of Blur is filled with so much 
 promise, the next SSX game for the Wii should be a thrilling new title, granted, if they iron out 
 most of the current issues. SSX Blur delivers one of the best sports experiences on the Wii so 
 far.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dean_Harper
Rating: 7
Date: May 25, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Ive been an SSX fan since Tricky, and ive got to say, this IS a good game. However, it lacks the 
 simplicity in tricks that Tricky and On Tour had. Both of those games were much more customizable 
 in characters and had a better track system. Blur has great art design, but it lacks (at least 
 to me) the certain elements of On Tour and Tricky that made them great games. The Wii controls 
 make it somewhat hard to steer and hard to even land a trick, while Uber Tricks are practically 
 impossible to do. For one, there arent many jumps high enough to pull one off, and for another, 
 when you "draw" the shape with the remote, the game rarely picks it up that you did one. I have 
 to say, however, the races are very cool graphically. The cast of characters i was disappointed 
 in slightly because the characters i grew to love in Tricky weren't included, or their character 
 design was changed dramatically. Sometimes, the unlockables are very hard to unlock, especially 
 the two other mountains you can board (or ski) on. All in all, though, if you are a fan of the 
 SSX series, I encourage you to buy the game because it does give satisfaction and can be fun. However, 
 this game isnt really for anyone new, and for those easily frustrated, is better left on the store 
 shelf.
  
  -Dean 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 5
Date: May 13, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  This was a great game when ti came out as it took SSX to new levels! Adding the wiimote sensing 
 controls gave the game much more playability and more to offer than the previous editions of the 
 game.
  
  I would recomment this as a solid rental as it can have some giood play value but will get old 
 after a few days or hours of playing. You will have a blast runnign through teh courses but they 
 do get iold after a while and run out very quickly, there simply isn't enough more stuff to offer 
 up in the way of more courses.
  
  There are definately some clumbsiness issues with the way that the game controls. My wife had a 
 hell of a time getting most of the spins and controls to work well for her but for me they were 
 pretty easy and therefore I would give it a mixed results in the control department.
  
  Graphics and sound quality is pretty good and surprisingly well done for a wiigame and the environments 
 are well thought out but they do get old and repetitive.
  
  Definately try to rent this one for a week to get the feel for it and enjoy it while you can, because 
 after a while you will put it down and get bored with it. Give it a try tho! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: galaxybrawler
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 4:45 am PT
Review:  the game for me was just plain frustrating and annoying i found the controls very confusing and 
 never got the hang of the ubar tricks. it has a good multiplayer side to it though. the 1 player 
 is pretty good aswell. the graphics are pretty good and the sound isnt bad at all but the controls 
 for me were just too confusing and whenever i wanted to break i would accidently press boost and 
 send me plying down the mountain. but i guess that kinda got me into the game by the way i really 
 ski and snowboard rolling down the montain with all limbs all over the place. the game really takes 
 skill and it deffinately should of had some sort of wifi part to it. the scenery in the game i 
 thought looked very authentic and the choice between skiis and boards was a great idea. the character 
 list is better than the last but i liked the last ssx game more. (easier controls) . i reckon if 
 your not an unco like me then you will probably enjoy the game but i would say not worth more than 
 $60 new 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rustymilk24
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 20, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  when i came home from the store with this game, i was not even that excited to play it. it was 
 only 20 bucks so i thought i might as well get it. i was wrong. this game was fun at first but 
 then i played it for a couple days i got really bored of it. it is decentat best if i am in a good 
 mood, but otherwise, i really dont like this game. some will argue that i did not give this game 
 enough of a chance, but with games that are good i like them for much longer than 3 days. i give 
 this a 6.0 i guess if you find this at a store for 5 bucks get it. but dont exepect it to be an 
 extremly fun adventure. i mean it is fun while it lasts but it does not last long enough. i know 
 this is my first review in a very long time but i will start writing them again. bottom line this 
 game is not very good and i suggest you to not get it unless it is for a very very very low price. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: V-Dunstan
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2008 4:03 am PT
Review:  In my opinion, SSX Blur is quite a nice game but it just dosent fill in the shoes of the predecesors. 
 Well first off lets look at the controls. The controls are very frustrating, there is a very deep 
 level of detail with the wii remote movement, and it is quite hard to pick up. That being said, 
 I don't think the controls are dodgy, they work well but are just very, very hard to master. It 
 is quite a short game and also has a lower replayability than SSX 3 I also noticed that many levels 
 bear a similarity to SSX 3. I don; t know if they were trying to sneak that past, but it really 
 felt like a game i had already played. The graphics and presentation are a nice touch. Nothing 
 overly exciting, but it gets the job done. Same applies with sound just solid, nothing special. 
 So closing comments are: Okay addition to the series, very similar to SSX 3 in level design (unsure 
 of focus) nice visuals, nice sound. I find that out of SSX Tricky, SSX 3 and SSX Blur, Blur is 
 definitely the worst, not to say that it is bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedtaker
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  ssx blur for the wii could be funny and exciting at times but most of it is trying to master the 
 really hard ubersas to do the uber tricks you have to make funny shapes with the remote but it 
 is so hard to do. in the game you select a character and race with him/her o go do tricks or if 
 you want collect uber tokens wich let you unlock even harder ubers to do, the ubers arnt even that 
 good, I mean the ones on 3 and tricky are way better. the Graphics are kinda good though, the snow 
 and all that looks nice but all the characters seem deformed. speaking of characters, there are 
 all the basic characters like mac simon and all them but they dont go much in-depth enough, and 
 the commentater on blur is dj atomika, and ive got to say that razzelle from tricky is way more 
 funny although atomika might say some funny stuff now and then. but something really bad is the 
 music, I hate it, most of the tracks are punk, witch I hate, all they do is sream and you dont 
 even uderstand what they are saying.
  But in the end ssx blur is pretty fun but could be improved by quite a bit like making it like 
 ssx 3 but for wii, but, there are some good things about it like multiplayer is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljlrj
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  I've been a little dissappointed with the average review score for SSX blur (brought down mostly 
 by fat degenerates at Gamepro who are so bad at reviewing, that they have to do it out of 5, instead 
 of 10 like the rest of the world) . I picked up this game yesterday and I have been having an absolute 
 blast. Its absolutely necissarry to start the game in the tutorial, or else you will be getting 
 trashed race after race. After about 15-30 minutes of getting to know how to play, you are ready 
 to hit the slopes. Let me say first that SSX blur is a very long game. It will take about 10 hours 
 to just beat the game with 1 character, of which there are a whole lot in the game. It that sense, 
 it's all the more reason to buy it.
  One thing that people have been trashing a lot are the controls. Either, they honestly suck at 
 the game, or they never played it. After a bit of practice, the controls are a breeze. You tilt 
 the Nunchuck to carve, and can also move the control stick for added steering. For those of you 
 worried about having to jump by flicking up with the nunchuck, stop worrying, you can use the A-button. 
 I hardly ever use the Nunchuck to jump. Once in the air, spins and flips are performed by flicking 
 the Wii-mote to the side or up and down, respectively. It's fairly simple, the only criticism being 
 that I found it difficult at first to do flips and spins at the same time (flicking diagonal to 
 the northeast, for example) . After a while, you get a hang of it, but it has to be precise. Also, 
 grabs are done by holding down Z and moving the Nunchuck the same way you would for flips and spins. 
 Moving the control stick will tweak your grab, something that I wasn't expecting. Most of the time, 
 you will have to press A before you land in order to land safely. Another great thing about the 
 game is the ability to pick up and throw snowballs at opponents while racing. You simply press 
 and hold the B button in order to pick one up and then flick the Wii-mote and release the B button 
 to throw. The game does a fantastic job of knowing where you want to throw, so if you aim right, 
 most of the time you will get a hit.
  The most common complaint that I have heard about this game is the controls for the uber tricks. 
 No, it's not perfect, but they aren't as bad as everyone says either (if you're not a retard) . 
 To perform an Ubertrick when your groove meter is sufficiently filled, you hold down the A button 
 and draw a shape on the screen (a heart, a "Z" shape, a loop, etc) . Its not that hard to do, really. 
 I think that most people have just been trying to do them too fast, or dont press the A button 
 soon enough, or too soon, for that matter. The trick to performing Ubermoves is to take your time. 
 RELAX. Now you shouldn't go so slow that you finish drawing your shap while your own the ground, 
 but you really have to draw your shape to preciseness and you need to make sure that the jump you 
 launched yourself off of got you a sufficient amount of air, because as far as I have played, I 
 haven't been able to cancel an Ubermove mid-flight, so I'm just gonna stop trying and accept defeat 
 when I foolishly perform one off of a simple bunny hop. The other word of advice while performing 
 the Ubermoves, is to make sure the remote is where its going to be when you start the drawing. 
 So many times when I started playing, I found myself swinging the remote up to the left so I can 
 start to draw a "Z", only to have my rider perform a spin or a flip unwantedly. If you remember 
 these tips, you should be find and I don't see why it should be a problem to be talked about anymore.
 
  Now that I have set some common misconceptions straight, I will sadly tell you that SSX Blur is 
 not a perfect game. The faults I find with it aren't that big of a deal, but they do take away 
 from the overall SSX experience. First of all, there aren't any cutscenes where the riders talk 
 trash. Cutscenes in past games were what made me want to smoke my rival down the hill, and really 
 made me hate some of the riders. Not only that, but there isn't any big trash talking while riding 
 either. If I was in an all-out snowboarding race with insane jumps and crazy tricks, you wouldn't 
 be able to shut me up! I don't know why EA Montreal took out the trashtalking, so now I have to 
 yell at the noob that just ate my powder instead of letting Mac do it for me! But hopefully it 
 will be back in the next installment.
  The final problem I have found with SSX Blur is the new art style. Is it just me, or has anyone 
 else noticed the cartoony new character looks? For goodness sake, Psymon looks like a white Bob 
 Marley without eyes! But while that does still annoy me, it doesn't matter much when you are carving 
 down the mountain at blurring speeds (literally) and your character is covered in white powder.
 
  The last thing I will mention about Blur is the multiplayer. Eh, its a bit shallow, but certainly 
 not boring or a waste of time like critics have been calling it. If you play with 2 people, its 
 fun, but you might get bored after a while because it really just feels like you two are playing 
 alone. If you play with 3, you will have a blast, and will get in some great target practice with 
 snowballs. But, if you play with 4, you could seriously be playing SSX Blur all night long and 
 never get tired.
  Bottom line, SSX Blur is a great game and a worthy installment into the series. The unique control 
 set brings something fresh to the SSX franchise, and it is a very welcome addition. If you have 
 ever been a fan of any SSX game at any time ever, chances are you will love blur. If you've apposed 
 SSX games ever since it debuted on the PS2, you probably won't be swayed into accepting it. But 
 if you're like me, and are one of the Wii owners with only Zelda and Wii Sports in your collection, 
 this game is an absolute must buy, especially if you've got friends that won't leave your Wii alone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baller10dw
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is underappreciated. It's one of the best ssx game out there. This isn't the best game 
 ever though. It is a tough game. It's hard to land the tricks and the Uber trick is really tough. 
 But I think that all the other ssx games are just really good too. This isn't a bad game. The Wii 
 mote is used solid. It's really tough to get used to, but once you do get used to it, it becomes 
 really fun. 
  
  On career you can go down a whole bunch of different runs. The goal is to unlock Peak 2 and 3 and 
 the peaks only get harder. It has slopestyle, half-pipe, slalom, and race. The characters are just 
 like the other ssx's although some new ones. The game really isn't all that different than the 
 other ssx series except it's for the Wii. It also has sking on it, and that is pretty sweet. 
 
  
  This game is very solid and If you like snowboarding, this is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_gluv_me_wii
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  this game is good and the track designs are just insane whether your looking for a freestyle track 
 with rails and jumps or your after a massive open track that is absolutely built for adrenaline 
 this game is for you there is no real storyline and the graphics are not realy a jump from on tour 
 but this game is so good because its just naturally fun!! 
  
  SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur 
 SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur 
 SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur 
 SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur 
 SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur 
 SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur 
 SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur SSX Blur 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iain-Kinloch
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  SSX has been around for quite a while now ant to be honest, it was starting to loose its Special 
 feeling. You know,  And Ok, you do much of the 
 same in SSX Blur but the way you line up for your jump and the way you actually do the Ubertricks 
 is what makes it better.
  
  You see, instead of tilting the analog stick, you also have to (well choose to, anyway) tilt the 
 nunchuck to turn. By using the analog stick and tilting the nunchuck you can carve paths in the 
 snow so accuurately its amazing. It takes a while to get used to it but its worth it.
  
  As for ticking, well doing spins couldn't be easier. You jump by flicking the nunchuck up and then 
 you just flick the remote in the direction you want to spin. Grabs are done by holding the Z button 
 and tilting in one of four directions. I never had any difficulty with any of these controls at 
 all, so ... yeah.
  
  Ubertricks are always the thing I look forward to most in SSX games, and I'm happy to say they 
 work. I'm amazed GS said the Ubertricks don't work at all. I have made a point of making sure I 
 wasn't imagining things before doing this review, and yes, as I thought, the Ubertrick DO work. 
 Once your in the air you have to hold down the A button and draw a shape with the remote (sometimes 
 with the nunchuck aswell) . I prefer this to just pressing buttons because it requires skill not 
 speed which admittedly, was a mistake I made. To all of you out there struggling to do Ubers, just 
 draw the shape nice and slow, then you'll be able to pull off Ubers about 90% of the time.
  
  The graphics are good but not great. A very good Gamecube or maybe PS2 game could manage these 
 graphics. That's not to say they are bad, there very good graphics, but the screens for SSBB and 
 Super Mario Galaxy put this, and many other Wii games, to shame. Having said that, all the characters 
 look great and the mountain itself is good too.
  
  Like I said before, the music is awesome. When you pull off amazing tricks and keep going really 
 fast, you get rewarded with brilliant music where loads of instruments do their part. But, if you 
 bail or completely stop, then you dont gat any sound apart from the wind if your high enough, or 
 the swishing of the snow if your low enough.
  
  With loads of challenges, events, tournaments and a fairly good multiplayer mode, there is enough 
 here to keep you going for ages. I must have clocked about 40 hours now and I'm still using my 
 first character (although I just ride around in Free Ride a lot) . SSX Blur not only looks good, 
 but it has faboulous music, great controls and a huge amount of stuff to do, this is not a good 
 game, its SSX as it should be, fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruffbum
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  First off i just want to say that i am pretty new to ssx games, other then playing then a bit at 
 firends houses, i have never owned one.
  I have read alot of reviews that complain about the controls of this game, and i just plainly cannot 
 understand them.
  AT FIRST, this game is tricky to master but, if your a hardcore gamer and you like to master things, 
 asi would imagine most SSX players should be, then this is simply fantastic.
  The wii controls are pretty flawless, and add soo much to the game. while there is less move variety, 
 its made up for by the pure thrill of just controlling the game, and i would say that it gives 
 the game a slightly more realistic feel, as it takes alot more skill this time to pull off moves 
 and so there is a bigger reward. The UBERtricks are tricky at first, but once you get what you 
 are suposed to do i would say they work about 90% of the time, which to be honest is the same as 
 with typing buttons in to do combos. It just takes skills and precision to pull off.
  Much like alot of wii games, the controls have recieved alot of stick, but i would say that after 
 owning a wii for almost a year now, this is not the consoles fault at all, it is purely just because 
 this is a new system and takes different skills to master.
  The content of the game is satisfying, but pretty much just your run of the mill ssx format with 
 no surprises. if your looking for a game to really get you into the wii interface and control style, 
 look no further then this (and perhaps monkeyball [another grossly underrated game} ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bombolulu
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 26, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  I used to love the SSX games, but the frustration in playing SSX Blur has caused me to start to 
 hate them. The slalom events, as well as the ubertricks in general, DO NOT work in this game. I 
 was at the point of slamming my controllers against the wall (broke something else instead) .
  
  Graphics are nice, sound is okay, some of the other events are also alright. But the frustration 
 caused by the gameplay in SSX seriously makes my blood boil.
  
  SSX Blur often doesn't seem to recognize the fact that the controller is at a 90 degree angle (indicating 
 a sharp left/right turn) and instead often chooses to go straight ahead. Also, the slalom courses 
 in one of the tournaments actually starts with a jump to the right of a flag which you are supposed 
 to pass by the left, making it virtually impossible to change directions before the first flag!
 
  
  Finally, the ubertricks..... even though I finally wound up completing 80-90% of these (the easy 
 ones) , it took a frustrating amount of time before I was able to do them. It just didnt pay off.
 
  
  I read in another review that the game starts becoming fun when you have put in 20 odd hours practicing 
 the game. I know I dont want to do that, if you dont either: dont buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NFSspeeddemon
Rating: 3.3
Date: Aug 14, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  SSX has created the worst game in their entire series. SSX Blur is a snow-boarding and skiing game 
 with awful controls that make you wish it was never made for the wii. The controls make it hard 
 to do ordinary events such as slaloms and trick matches. You have to move your arms in awkward 
 positions to do ordinary tricks. The only fun part of this game is the racing which isnt even 
 that great. During the races it seems as though youre moving at one mile per hour. It drags on 
 through the entire race until you finally cross the finish line and then get criticized by the 
 announcer for coming in last. The multi-player is pretty awful as well. You can choose if you want 
 to race with only two people or take turns with up to four people in a hot seat round. The only 
 thing worse than the multi-player is the music. There arent real songs and when you wipe out or 
 slow down the music comes to a screeching stop. I wouldnt recommend this game to anyone who enjoys 
 having fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: impromptustar
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 11, 2007 7:38 am PT
Review:  There are a few things I really like about this game. First of all, the graphics are really good 
 for an early wii game, and really take advantage of the Wii's capabilities. Secondly, features 
 such as the Ubertricks are a great addition to the game, in terms of using the new Wii technology.
 
  
  However, there are still a couple things not to like. The ubertricks are not as responsive or as 
 cool as I would have hoped, they need more trails per peak, the challenges are hard to find and 
 keep track of, and the slalom is WAY to hard. In slalom, the character will just automatically 
 start thundering down the slope, and then when you try to turn your character, you have either 
 lost control and he/she will just keep going down the hill, or it will just crash, and you probably 
 by then have lost. Also, multiplayer is lacking a little bit in terms of game modes you can play; 
 there are only 2 to chose from. Seriously, add more next time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necorium
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 27, 2007 12:57 am PT
Review:  Firstly, the ubertricks are not impossible to do. Everyone is saying they play, play, play and 
 get frustrated because the ubertricks are so hard. That's rubbish. I went through the tutorials, 
 tried out the uber tricks on the practice screen and i'm nailing ubertricks just like i did on 
 previous versions with gamepads.
  
  The graphics are great, it is a challenging (but fun) game and its everything i wanted from a Wii 
 version of SSX. I would really recommend that you buy this game if you have a Wii and are looking 
 for a challenge. Overall, great game!! The controls are a bit weird at first because i've never 
 played anything like it. Tilting the nunchuck to turn is very fun indeed. You really start to get 
 into the game after a while and i find myself moving to the music and racking up great combos just 
 keeping with the beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMario_46
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great Graphics and original soundtrack - Tons of events to choose from - When you master 
 them, the controls work great - Plenty of weird yet lovable characters - Nice sense of speed
  ________________
  
  
  The Bad: No online play - Controls are very difficult to master - Hard 
 difficulty 
  ________________
  
  SSX blur has to be one of the hardest games on the wii, not only because of the game itself but 
 also for the very difficult controller. I've never played any of the ssx games before, so i was 
 skeptical about picking this up. 
  
  The purpose in the game is ski and snowboarding racing, but there are also other events. The main 
 game is divided in three peaks, each with it's own set of events and difficulties. It sounds simple 
 but as you progress the game gets harder and harder. There's a lot of events in the game, from 
 the usual racing to trick points pipe line and many more, though the high level of difficulty is 
 frustrating some times.
  
  The gameplay isn't simple, in fact it may take over two hours to play this game perfectly. Movement, 
 speed, and jumping is controlled through the Nunchuk, you can move and steer by tilting the nunchuck 
 in the direction you wish to move your character - this particular use of the wii's motion controls 
 feels great. You can also jump with the A button and swing the wiimote in any direction to perform 
 tricks, the basic controls are great; though its hard to perform your desired trick so in the end 
 you'll just start doing random movements. 
  
  To do the ubertricks (they're some kind of special moves) you have to fill the groove meter by 
 doing tricks, after this a small icon will appear on the screen telling you to draw a specific 
 shape with the wiimote such as a heart or a treble clef. The problem is that the ubertricks are 
 extremely hard to pull out, when you do them it's very satisfying; but you wont do them much. And 
 it's disappointing and frustrating at the same time because in later tournaments you'll need to 
 use the ubertricks on a regular bassist to win. Overall, the gameplay would be better without the 
 ubertricks, but what are we going to do?
  
  The graphics are superb, the snow and lighting effects are great and the characters animations 
 are awesome, the cell shaded style really fits the game. Though there may be some glitches, but 
 you wont see them that often.
  
  The sound is also excellent, there are many great sound effects in the game and the music is great. 
 The voice acting is done by the DJ atomica of radio big and you'll enjoy his talk during the game 
 because he's really cool.
  
  The game really fails in the multiplayer department, it's up to four players and no online, plus, 
 the extremely hard gameplay makes it even harder to convince a friend or a family member to play 
 it with you. The replay value is in the career mode, each character has it's own carrer and unlockable 
 skis or snowboards and that makes you comeback everytime to unlocked even more stuff. The game 
 also has an excellent sense of speed and you really feel like you're on a mountain race.
  
  Overall, this game is great, the high challenge level restricts the game to hardcore audiences 
 only, but if you have the patience and don't throw your wii remote at the wall you're going to 
 have a blast with this game because it's excellent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiirdawgs
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jul 13, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Well what is there to say you think this would be just as good as it's last gen predecessor's this 
 time with motion sensitive control How can you go wrong. Here's how. Bad control scheme that is 
 unresponsive, use's the nunchuck more than the actual wiimote for motions, bad single player mode, lack 
 of trick variety, too complicated to do more than the simplest tricks. Oh and did i mention the 
 graphics. They are abomination to video games a horrible eyesore and a crime against humanity. 
 Because when you speed up you can literally see pixels around the boarder you play as. In total 
 this game is total crap and i thank god i didn't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesemonkey199
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  SSX has been one of my favourite videogame series', ever, so when a Wii game was announced I simply 
 had to get it.
  
  The game looks fantastic, some of the best graphics and sound on the Wii so far, the game is quite 
 long anyway and the are the challenges and the multiplayer mode to try which give it plenty of 
 value.
  
  This game should have been perfect but the one thing has stopped it from becoming perfect are the 
 controls. Sure you can see the interesting control scheme that EA have given it but it really takes 
 away the fun of the game as you put every bit of effort into actually turning your rider. That 
 is not the point of the game, the point of the game is to fly down mountains at super fast speed 
 and pull off amazing tricks, but with the horrible motion controls you couldn't even pull off a 
 standard trick, let alone an uber trick.
  
  If you can master the controls then stick an extra 1.7 onto the score because it could of been 
 the best game ever, but if you don't want too shout at the TV with immense frustration, then it 
 is better to leave this one be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tadurham
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 3, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Blur's gameplay on the Wii is very different that the gameplay on the PS2 for the SSX family of 
 games. The cartoonish characters on the Wii as opposed to more real-life characters on the PS2 
 definitely gear this game to a younger audience. I've really enjoyed what I've played of the game 
 thus far, though, as I'm a big fan of the series. Gameplay - frustrating because of the challenging 
 controls. Kids will think it looks fun but will give up quickly. Adults might actually win out 
 due to perseverance. Graphics are very nice for a Wii game. Sounds is quite enjoyable too as it 
 ramps up the better that you play. This is definitely a value if you love the series; rent it first 
 if you've never played the series before. My tilt: Very fun game that, I think, will last for many 
 hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nickfury101
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 7, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  With many Wii games getting tacked on controls, it's almost refreshing to see EA has really put 
 it's time into thinking of cool ways to control your ability to snowboard. This is this games main 
 strengths and it passes with flying colors. SSX Blur is not a completely original title, rather 
 it is a reworking from past tracks in this classic franchise. This being said if you are a long 
 time fan of the series this may seem like a letdown in terms of content originality, however if 
 this is your first trip into the franchise, then you really have nothing to worry about as there 
 is a lot of content here to play through. Like I said earlier controls are the main thing going 
 for in this title, and at first you feel totally lost. This is why I highly recommend going through 
 the games tutorial before ever venturing onto the snow. This is to say you will not be able to 
 pick this game up in just 10 minutes, rather given a good half hour in the tutorial you should 
 be carving snow in no time. As for graphics the game looks really decent especially compared to 
 some of the more rushed games on the Nintendo Wii. When all is said and done, SSX Blur can be considered 
 a rousing success. However if your are looking for a game which you can pick up and play in a matter 
 of minutes, you may be a little put off, otherwise the title is strongly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kungphooey
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jun 2, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty poor. WHen you first start it up it's all flashy with bright colours and it 
 hurts your eyes. THen you get a really impressive intor movie, then it goes downhill from there. 
 The gameplay is hard and bad. You tilt the wii remote to do flips and use the b, c, z buttons to 
 grab. That is okay, and the tricks look pretty cool, but you can't mix them and it's insanely difficult 
 to do uber tricks. The level system is weird. You go down a hill till you find an event you want 
 to compete in, then you do it/ The events vary from one on one races to halfpipe things. Also carving 
 with the numchuck is hard and doesn't work very well. No real improvements in the gameplay.
  
  The grahpics are very poor. The characters look too cartoony and looking nothing like their 
 counterparts from trickey, 3 or on tour. the lines that follow the players as they spin is distacting 
 and annoying, and everything si blurry, like the title suggests.
  
  There is little talking in the game, and poor sound effects. The only highlight is the radio DJ 
 who every now and then says somthing kind of funny on interisiting. Little value, you'll get tired 
 of this game pretty soon. Just rent it and see what you think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabz_95
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 31, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Well everyones heard of Ssx
  
  Probably the only snowboarding series ever
  And thanks to some great wii controls from Ea this game is better than ever!
  
  First of all 
 the graphics are amazing in this game! There is immense detail in the scenery and all around the 
 game. From mountains of snow from the small details of your snowboard the game just proves that 
 wii can produce excellent graphics. The game also looks amazing when you are snowboarding around 
 in career mode
  
  The clever wii controls in the game is the new highlight for the Ssx series. To move around you 
 have to push your analogue stick in the direction you want to move in and you also have to tilt 
 the nunchuk in that direction aswell. This works very well and never lets you down. You also can 
 jump into the air by flicking your nunchuk. The wiimote is mainly used for tricks. If you spin 
 your wii mote around your character will spin, if you flick it up your character will do a flip 
 etc.
  There are also uber tricks in the game. An uber trick is where you hold the a button and you make 
 a shape in the air and you do a great trick. You have to be good at tricks in the game because 
 thats how you get your boost up and without boost you could never win.
  
  The sound in the game also is great. The more tricks you do and the more points you get the better 
 the music gets. Musical notes start spinning around your head and the music just gets better and 
 better.
  One issue with the game is that it has some frame rate issues as sometimes for about a tenth of 
 a second the game just freezes. The game also has good replay value as you can always come back 
 to unlock more things.
  Overall i think this is an excellent ssx game produced into the wii with great controls and if 
 your a fan of ssx games or is just looking for a great game buy it :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ped101
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 16, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  SSX is a world famous series with thousands of fans. SSX 3 for Gamecube was an excellent game, 
 with a great soundtrack, and an excellent gameplay. The title came to the Wii and high expectations 
 were set, mainly due to the excellency of the previous title... and it was a total letdown. The 
 controls, although innovative, relied too much on the Wiimote to control the snowboard, which demanded 
 the player to hold it perfectly still. The Ubertricks were made impossible, because very complicated 
 movements were needed. And overall it is just a copy from SSX 3 with a bad soundtrack and gameplay. 
 The graphics though look beautiful and the snow that covers the players when they fall was beautifully 
 designed, however those points do not cover up the several flaws of the game. My personal grade 
 to this game is a 6.5, because since it was a copy of the SSX 3, it couldnt go too wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rooster2991
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 12, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Ill start by syaing ssx blur is a good game, and you should play it. But its also not a great game 
 and more of a rent than a buy. The graphics are good, some of the best on the wii to date, and 
 the sound isnt bad although there is no voice from the characters in the game. The biggest issue 
 is the playablity. The system works after some getting used to, but you end up just flailing your 
 arms around like an idiot really. Also, Uber tricks are insanely difficult, and just plain frustrating. 
 There is no reason that they should have made them so hard to pull off, and it is something that 
 should be tweaked.
  
  SSX Blur shows promise for snowboarding games on the wii, it just isnt as polished as id liked 
 to have seen. With some minor renditions, a next game would be very inviting. Overall its a good 
 game though... Give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wima5ter-134
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 8, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  i myself am a snowboarder, so i was happy to play a snowboarding game. But when I started, I found 
 it quite hard to get around. There are many different areas and levels to the game, but you have 
 to snowboard down the mountain to find it, and if you pass it you can't go back. Another thing 
 I thought was dumb was the uber-trick mode. Going down the hill to the levels, you could find uber 
 plaques, and every one had a different way to do the trick some was an 'A and others were just 
 odd symbols so to do a move you would have to make this symbol with the Wii mote, which I always 
 found confusing. The game also chose for you what symbol to make, making it harder for you to do 
 it. There was also the multi-player, There was all these choices for split screen mode.... but, 
 it was only 2 player. For 3-4 players you had to go to not split screen mode, which was very confusing 
 to play. It was also incredibly hard to unlock new mountains/levels. Fun but, as I said, some very 
 confusing parts to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frodnekcod
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 6, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: My initial reaction was that it was too difficult. But the tutorial proved that it was 
 a good functioning game and could be a fun experience. But then I came across the slalom. One of 
 those things that you suck not because you suck, but because the dev. s airballed. Its frustrating 
 and I nearly screamed and swore at my little brother when he talked to me because I couldnt handle 
 it. It starts you off, you go down the peak trying to stop and then you crash through the course 
 unable to hit the goals with unresponsive control until you fail. I can't believe that ign and 
 g-spot complained about the ubertricks, you can pull them off fine, its the slalom you gotta worry 
 about.
  
  When you race, its actually fun but the tricks are a bit subpar. You can try one of 8 tricks (4 
 grabs, one in each direction, and 4 spins, one in each direction) and itll work fine. But its not 
 even worth it because you can get way more points by just spamming the wii remote with motions. 
 And while the beginning races move your rider with good fluency, the later ones start the unresponsive 
 control and losing when its not your fault. For example, you can lose a race by being flung from 
 a jump then blindsided by a tree and stuck there till youre in 6th place, and thats where i started 
 getting frustrated with the core gameplay, and the AI never screws up like that so there is an 
 unwarranted difficulty by battling the gameplay..
  
  Grpahics: Great once again initially, but the larger environments glitch out and stutter and there 
 are jaggies on the characters. Decent lighting but not superb.
  
  Sound: Has a couple good tunes thatl have you jamming, and the music getting funkier as you do 
 better is a neat idea, but the radio guy is a bit annoying.
  
  Value: A decently long game for those who think they will enjoy it, but im giving it to gamestop 
 for store credit.
  
  Tilt: Nuff said, wasn't my favorite game, excite truck and zelda smarter decisions. Cant believe 
 GS and IGN complained bout the ubertricks, they definitely werent the biggest problem of mine, 
 i acutally thought they were fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackLeague
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 4, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  First of all i must say that this is the first SSX game i own hence the whole game is brand new 
 to me.
  I realise that some fans of the series might have felt a bit dissapointed by the title cause its 
 kind of repeting from the past ones.
  SSX for the Wii is a catcy , beutifull title. The graphics are colourfull , the gameplay is a blast 
 and the sound is groovy and cool.
  
  Gameplay: At first i was kind of disapointed by the gameplay of SSX.
  Using the nunchuck to curve 
 and the wiimote to do tricks gave me a hard time.
  most frustrating was that i was crushing on trees and my inability to land properly.
  Once you 
 get to learn the game , you are gonna love the style of it.
  Ubertricks are still extremely hard to do , i ve only done 4 so far. But in general SSX's gameplay 
 gives you the feeling of skill and achievement , the tricks that you see on the screen are not 
 just happening , you are actually swinging the mote and doing them.
  
  i wont go on a long review i just have to say that once you get to learn using thewiimote you will 
 FEEL how COOL this game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fang_lord
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  Once again, gamespot have under rated another Wii game... this game may not be perfect, but no game 
 is, whilst this game seem to lack a good control system at first, you will quickly realise how 
 much fun this game really is...
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Well, the graphics on SSX Blur are in my opinion, amazing, you can see for miles, and there arent 
 many jaggies, and from what iv seen, 0 SLOW DOWNS (wtf are GS talking about? frame rate issues? 
 my ***) . Unfortunatly, in Multiplayer the draw distance is noticeably shorter than single player, 
 but this is to keep the frame rate down, which id say is a fair trade.
  
  SOUND
  
  Personally, i do not like the style of music in SSX Blur, but it does grow on you. The sounds comming 
 from the Wii mote are nice and clean sounding and dont cut out for no reason. The sound of grinding 
 snow is very good. And finally they have put in an effect (im not sure if this was in previous 
 games as this is my first SSX game) that when you crash the music stops, the it restarts quitly 
 as u build up speed, and the faster you go the faster and more interesting the music gets, which 
 i think is an excellent effect.
  
  CONTROLS
  
  As with all Wii games the question you will most likely be asking is : how do the controls handle? 
 . Well, at first they seem, awkward, complicated and frustrating. But after about 30-60 mins of 
 gameplay, the controls will sudenly grow on you, and you will be doing triple backflips with a 
 720 spin with ease. Moving is as simple as pushing the analoge stick forward to go, and tilting 
 the Nun-chuck to turn, and pulling the stick back to slow down, pretty simple isnt it? To jump 
 you simply flick the nun-chuck up and for tricks you move the wii mote up and down for a front 
 or back flip and side to side for a spin left or right. You can easily make HUGE tricks by combng 
 these simple gestures. There are more advanced tricks which you will find wen u play the game. 
 One more thing... the dreaded UBER TRICK... Gamespot are right, the uber trick is almost impossible 
 to pull off, and it looks good, but this is the BIGGEST problem with the game... you dont even need 
 them, so personally, i dont care if i can do them or not.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Although the career is shortish, it is very fun to do the large variety of events. these include: 
 Stalom, Halfpipe, race, big air, slope style and a few other challenges. You play through 3 mountains 
 competeing in events, challenges and tournements. Every event you complete you unlock it for use 
 in quickplay, or multiplayer which is cool, but is expected of every game imo. Challenges however 
 are different, these comprise of a 1 on 1 race or event and if you win, you unlock a new outfit 
 for your charatcer or a new pair of skiis or a new board. Certain boards give you certain boosts 
 in stats which will help you do certain events more easily. Multiplayer is great, but unfortunatly 
 you cant add Bots to spice the races/events up a bit, but its still solid. Quickplay is gd if you 
 want a bit of practice or if you want to mess around on your fav tracks doing your fav events. 
 Although you start off with a small selection of characters you will quickly unlock more and more 
 by finishing events and tornements.
  
  OVERALL
  
  With a Solid but slightly lacking multiplayer, the unesesary uber tricks and the short campaign 
 this game is definatly worth buying, as it does wat any gd game should do: Make you have fun. This 
 game a VERY enjoyable game and although its not a MUST BUY game for the Wii its definatly a game 
 you should consider buying. Game Spot have definatly under rated this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pac1234
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 29, 2007 6:09 am PT
Review:  this game is real sucky at first because of its controls but as you keep playin it and u know how 
 to play its real fun.. the grapghics are good and it has some good tracks. the new uber thing takes 
 alot of practice cuz u need to draw ur special moves and the wii mote and nunchuk sometimes doesnt 
 pick up. the sound is the same as on tour but with nice music. as u keep doin tricks the music gets 
 deeper but when u crash it and starts over. the characters has nice and way differ from 1 another 
 they added a couple of new boaders. if u have a wii u need 2 get dis game its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mandeep1295
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 23, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  This game is great and if ur looking for a game that will occupy for hours thats fun and good multiplayer, 
 then just go and buy it NOW.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in this game is great. The controls are very hard to master at first and 
 i hated the game but then i got used to them and i loved it. This game is very fast and hard at 
 times, especcially on slalom events. The controls are spot on and i dont know why every is moaning 
 bout ubertricks. there hard at first but if u do them rite/, THEY DOOOOOO REGISTER.
  
  Graphics: good snow effects and great character animation but frame rate could improve. the mountains 
 in the background look absolutely  Like in gran turismo hd. 
 No im not jokin especially in 420p progressive scan mode.
  
  sound: the bst thing in this game, improves as u improve, worsens as u worsen. enuff said.
  
 
  value: last for a long time. lots of replay value and plenty to keep you occupied here.
  
  tilt: EMAIL AND TELL ME WHAT IT IS mandeep1201@hotmail. co. uk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huxx
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 23, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  Well, where can I start? When I first got SSX: Blur I was quite doubtful, I'd seen a few screen 
 shots and an advert or two and really only bought it on a gut feeling. I was hoping that it would 
 utilise the Wii remote's features well, I was hoping that it would come with a good soundtrack 
 that put me in the mood and I was also hoping that it would have substance but at the same time 
 not require a huge amount of thought. And by god I am I glad I bought SSX!
  
  Despite my original problems with the controls (I only had my Wii for a few days at that point) 
 I have been very pleased with my purchase. EA have done a great job taking advantage of the Wii 
 remotes capabilities. With a flick of the wrist to the side you spin, another flick upward will 
 cause your character to do a back flip and a flick downward will, obviously, cause you to do a 
 front flip. Combining moves is as easy as it gets and it lets you pull off crazy triple backflip 
 720's which certainly rack up the points. The difficult part of pulling off tricks is the 'uber 
 tricks' (which, once got to grips with look amazing) . To successfully pull off an 'uber trick' 
 you need to first make a shape with the Wii remote while holding down 'A' which can be quite hard 
 to get right and secondly you need to leave yourself enough time to land said 'uber trick' which 
 is a surprisingly long time. If successful with the 'uber tricks' then you can put points on the 
 board like no other.
  
  SSX: Blur doesn't just have a few slopes on one mountain, heck no! EA thought about variety and 
 provided us with 3, yes 3 different peaks. Each with their own styles and individual slopes. You 
 can, once unlocked, free ride on each peak to collect 'uber tokens' which lets you unlock different 
 'uber tricks'. As well as the standard slopes on the 3 peaks, you can do the other riders challenges 
 which vary from winning a one on one race or grinding 300 metres of rail within two minutes.
  
  Now, I haven't mentioned many flaws. A simple reason really, there arent many! Unfortunately 
 though, this is an un-biased review and I need to mention these flaws however small! At times, 
 the game doesn't respond to your attempts at a sharp turn (tilt the nun chuck to the side you want 
 to turn as well as the joystick) which is very frustrating during a slalom race. Front flips can 
 be quite hard to pull of as it isn't a natural movement to flick your wrist forward, unless you 
 are holding the Wii remote vertically.
  
  Overall, I am pleased with my purchase, but only because I didn't think much of it to start with. 
 If you go and buy it with an idea that it is superb you will be disappointed, however approach 
 it with an open mind and you will be pleased. The game isn't a must have, but if you are looking 
 for a nice change and a game to have fun with; SSX might just be the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scurran007
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 23, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  The game itself has good graphics, The controls are not bad, although I could have sworn I stuck 
 a landing or two by pressing A and it still had me flat on my face. The Ubertricks are fun, when 
 you can pull them off. The problem here is, after awhile, unless your a big snowboarder or Skier, 
 it kind of gets boring.
  There is nothing wrong with the game.... just kind of specific in appeal. It may very well appeal 
 more to the younger crowd (Under 30s) Now, that is not to say the game is without merit. It is 
 well executed, looks like they spent a great deal of time on it. I am satisfied with the spending 
 the 49.99 on it.... so its not a waste, but for me, at least, Excite Truck was much better. I feel 
 that Excite Truck appeals to a greater diversity of people. Graphics are about an 8
  Sounds - Blah... not sure if I can use my own sounds tracks, like I can in Excite Truck... but the 
 music that comes with SSX Blur sucks.
  Wii Controls - about 7 -not bad... nothing to complain about in fact it does work well for this 
 kind of game.
  Play -Well, here again, I am not a fan of snowboarding, I bought the game to try something new... Its 
 fine, as far as it goes, but I felt it was too repetitious.
  
  Over all this game is about a 7 for me,.,,, if I was a snowboarding fan, an 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umd1998
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 21, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Colorful, great-looking game with excellent style and soundtrack
  Cons: Steep learning curve for controls
  
  Nintendo wants gamers and non-gamers alike to be 
 able to pick up the Wiis wireless, motion-sensing controller and easily play intuitive games.
 
  
  With a learning curve as steep as the mountains you snowboard down, SSX Blur is not one of those 
 games. What it is, though, is a fresh direction for the long-running SSX series  and the best-looking 
 Wii title to date.
  
  To use the game's parlance, the controls are uber tricky, dude. SSX Blur will have you shaking 
 both arms in every direction like the drummer for a heavy-metal band  its the Wii's unique version 
 of button-mashing. But the controls are exhilarating once you get accustomed to them  and it takes 
 hours of diligent trial-and-error for that to happen.
  
  The Wii remote is used for mid-air flips and spins. The nunchuk attachment handles jumps and board 
 grabs. That may seem simple, but it's not. Gestures, rate of speed and ramps can result in seemingly 
 endless combinations.
  
  The controls for SSX Blur bring to mind the old adage about Texas Hold'em poker: minutes to learn, 
 a lifetime to master.
  
  And gambling certainly comes into play when you're trying to string together mid-air moves -- because 
 if you attempt one gesture too many before hitting the ground, you'll wipe out and get zero points. 
 New to this game is the Groove Meter, which rises as you string together aerial acrobatics. Fill 
 it to perform an Ubertrick by tracing a pattern on the screen for bonus points. Five levels of 
 music play as the Groove Meter goes up  better tricks, better music. The sound effects and voice 
 acting are excellent, as well.
  
  SSX Blur, created exclusively for the Wii, is polished and complete -- this is no rushed tech demo 
 like the infamous Red Steel. 
  
  The weaknesses of SSX Blur are baffling and unnecessary. At first, it appears you need to snowboard 
 down the mountain to each event. The instruction manual doesn't explain that you can pause at any 
 time and go straight to races. And neither the manual nor in-game instructions divulge the importance 
 of finding Ubertrick medals. Getting one unlocks it for use in competitions. And without Ubertricks, 
 it's impossible to win the Big Air, Slopestyle and Half-Pipe events.
  
  Winning unlocks more characters, gear and events -- which include tournaments, head-to-head challenges 
 against other characters and solo trick competitions.
  
  Slaloms are the game's most brutally difficult event. So it's unfair that you must win slalom tournaments 
 to unlock two other mountains and all their corresponding events.
  
  Multiplayer also is disappointing in SSX Blur. It offers just two modes: Splitscreen, in which 
 two gamers face off side-by-side, and Hot Seat, which allows up to four players to compete, one 
 at a time. In the end, the positives for SSX Blur far outweigh the negatives. The game looks, sounds 
 and controls great -- if you're willing to put in the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sykil
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  SSX is really about one thing: fun. SSX Blur doesn't change that. Although it's not the classic 
 that SSX3 or Tricky were, it's still a great game, and well-worth owning.
  
  As far as gameplay goes, Blur is just as fun as the others. The Wii controls are very intuitive, 
 nowhere near tacked on. Many people have complained about the ubertricks being hard pull off, and 
 while I don't find them _that_ hard, they're certainly not made to be easy -- much to a few lazy 
 reviewers' displeasure. Hold the Wiimote level and you should be able to pull them off with ease. 
 If not, go to the pause menu and select Ubertricks to practice or hone.
  
  The graphics are solid, though I do miss the daytime/nighttime dynamics of SSX3 -- the visuals 
 in Blur are the same, bright 24/7. Although they're still good, it's a small touch that could keep 
 things more visually interesting.
  
  Music is this game's strongest showing, as it has been in the past, especially in SSX3. While this 
 one is not as great as SSX3, it's close. Great, funky grooves. In fact, it really makes you want 
 to play the game more, which is a sure sign of success. Pull off some tricks and the music swells, 
 which is really neat.
  
  All in all, it may not be a super-duper-classic, this is a rather underappreciated entry into the 
 series -- and my personal favorite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeyHeyMyMy
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 14, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  SSX blur is a compilation of several different SSX snowboarding games. It features great, though 
 hard to get used to, controls, and the core gameplay is overall very good. However, the game's 
 single player story mode is very disappointing. Why? Because of a lack of character personality, 
 as well as frustrating slalom modes and challenges that just aren't that fun. The graphics are 
 great however, with nice snow effects. The sound is good, with some nice beats, but the DJ is annoying 
 and the effects don't sound too great. It's got ok value, since it's got a nice multiplayer and 
 quickplay mode, but the core singleplayer mode doesn't last long.
  Overall, SSX almost nails the snowboarding formula on the head, but lacks the singleplayer punch 
 to make it all the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  The SSX series has long been a formidable entry into the passionate sport of downhill skiing. Previous 
 installments in the series have shown just how capable the series is at giving the gamer an extensive 
 feeling of what it is like to be racing down snowy slopes and executing outrageous maneuvers high 
 above the ground. While the latest version on the Wii exemplifies these points rather well, the 
 loose and clumsy controls will make you feel rather angry with SSX and the entire downhill skiing 
 scene altogether. Despite that, the overall feeling of tricking out on a snowboard is still as 
 fun as ever.
  
  In SSX Blur, players can choose from a wide assortment of playable characters, boards and outfits 
 for different campaigns and multiplayer modes. Every track involves a simple trek down the side 
 of a giant mountain on which players must race, trick, or maneuver their way down to the bottom. 
 Depending on the situation, players are asked to do different things, such as grind the most rails, 
 hit as many targets as you can with snowballs, or simply be in position number one at the finish 
 line. The wide assortment of modes and features in every race will offer plenty of incentives to 
 play each level over and over again for quite some time.
  
  But even all of the different modes cannot hide how hard it is to accomplish even the simplest 
 of tasks. In a lighter sense, the controls drag down the speed of SSX Blur, which can go from incredibly 
 easy to understand to insanely bad. In the beginning, expect to be overjoyed by how simplistic 
 it is to pull off numerous tasks and how exciting the sensation is once you rack up enough points 
 to advance through the game. The basic controls require you to hold the remote in one hand and 
 the nunchuck in the other, and pressing forward on the analog stick to accelerate your character. 
 Once airborne, you can move the remote in different directions to perform spins, flips, and other 
 various maneuvers. You can even throw snowballs this time around, which can be used as a method 
 for taking down rival racers or hitting target markers scattered throughout the courses.
  
  However, the easiness of the controls ends there as everything soon goes downhill, as the controls 
 become much more frantic and random as time goes on. Once you start earning enough points you can 
 unlock super moves called ubertricks. Ubertricks are essentially moves that make your character 
 do all sorts of routines in midair quickly before he lands again. While they may look very cool, 
 executing them is another story. Once you have a full power meter, you can unleash an ubertrick 
 by holding A in the air and than moving both the remote and nunchuck to match the on-screen icon. 
 Numerous times have we tried to sync our controller with the icon on screen with nothing to happen 
 immediately afterwards. The ubertrick tutorial, which stresses the importance of timing, even seemed 
 to be faulty as it never correctly acknowledged button presses or controller movements. There are 
 times in later races when performing tricks seemed like a game of luck, often waving both arms 
 randomly to execute some of the tougher moves. Expect to spend a lot of time trying to master the 
 controls, because the steep learning curve will no doubt leave many gamers in a mad rage.
  
  SSX Blur is in no way a bad game. In fact, it pulls out what it is meant to do rather well 
 and the game is fun for a good portion of the time. If you can look past the non-uber controls, 
 than there is plenty in SSX Blur for everyone to enjoy. Blur still has that same SSX charm and 
 feel, with a new artistic look that feels right at home on the Wii. There were never any moments 
 of serious graphical problems, although sometimes the visuals in the later races jerked around 
 a bit, often causing the character to get stuck behind imaginary walls or go through solid objects. 
 These moments are very scarce and arent too easy to pick up on since youll be moving so fast.
 
  
  Multiplayer has also been added to give the game a friendlier approach to newcomers while giving 
 devoted fans something worthwhile to come back to. While you can essentially only race and perform 
 tricks, multiplayer mode is exceptionally fun to play with friends, and trying to best each other 
 in scores is always a rewarding experience. Split-screen offers a chance to race against each other 
 in various unlocked tracks, but the smaller screen makes navigating and controlling that much harder 
 to managea shameful blemish on a solid experience. Perhaps an online mode in the future could 
 make the multiplayer experience an even more worthwhile.
  
  While the controls could have been a lot better, SSX Blur is an admirable addition to a series 
 that is all about having fun. Dont let the controls drive you away from this game, as there are 
 more goodies to be had if you just spend some time with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Np_Pro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Weaving the Nunchuk left and right is a great way to turn. It takes practice, but who says thats 
 bad? Then you get to a jump. You pull up on this Nunchuk and you're in the air. Now you use the 
 Wii-mote to pull off tricks. Left and right for spins, up and down for flips. Holding the B-button 
 lets you do grabs. Its a lot like button mashing without the buttons. The trick give you groove, 
 and once you have enough groove you can do an Ubertick. But not when you start the game. Not because 
 you need to unlock them, but because you physically can not do them. But if you practice you can 
 get the tricks down, which makes the game great. I wasn't really enjoying it until I mastered the 
 Ubertricks. But don't buy this game expecting everything to come naturally. While jumping may be 
 intuitive, the rest of the game is not. Ubertricks aside, the game is great. The graphics, while 
 cartoony, look good. The snow affects are nice and pretty. The music rocks, and gets better as 
 you get more groove, although it seems like their are very few songs. Its fun. It also gives you 
 a chance to do what you like. I like to race, but there is plenty of room for tricks and other 
 stuff. If this game looks interesting to you, play it. If you think you'll like it, you probably 
 will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarherolover
Rating: 3.1
Date: Apr 9, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  On the back of the box, it says blurring speeds . Yeah, and blurring speeds is my grandma. SSX 
 Blur looks good, but don't think that way. The controls are very sloppy, and at times can have 
 you screw up and that. The graphics are very poor, ecspecially the loading screens. Oh, and the 
 Extras the give you are concept art. Who the beep wants concept art? It feels slow, unfinished 
 and terribly polished. SSX Blur is a rental only for HARDCORE (and I mean really hardcore) SSX 
 fans. Otherwise, stay away. The game is just another bad thing about america. It's about as bad 
 as bush. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nedarbi
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 9, 2007 1:09 am PT
Review:  lots of unlockables, characters, levels and cool moves make this a great buy. too often do i see 
 games that try so hard to make there gameplay good and fail. ssx: blur instead makes it easy to 
 do but adds those little challanges to make you want to keep playing and get better.
  
  the controls feel so smooth and natural that i was making major points in no time flat. its nice 
 to not have to think about how i am moving and instead i have tons more fun. when i read the gamespot 
 review it talked about non responsive ubertrick moves. once again i really dont know what they 
 were thinking. they work fine to me. you draw the move in the air and it copies it perfectly for 
 you and looks amazing to watch. its also handy that it gives you a option page to practice each 
 one.
  
  there is so much i could say about this game but it is more just a game that you have to experience 
 yourself. all in all the motions are smooth the gameplay never gets boring and there is lots to 
 do to keep you busy. to paint a better picture, it brings me back to the 1080 days on the 64. a 
 must buy for all Wii owners! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carnin
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 8, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Well I was waiting for SSx blur for the begining of the announcement and I was realy crazy excited 
 but when I out my hand on it everything change. On the Wii version I thought the motion sensor could 
 work perfect like Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess. The graphic is pretty good wor some of the 
 Wii title. I hope it would be much better next time of the improvement and more SSX element in it 
 there is alway a next time. So I give SSX Blur 7.3 out of 10. I would recomended this game for whom 
 gamer who really patient about the motion, so try to rent this game if u have a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HavQ-san
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 8, 2007 3:38 am PT
Review:  SSX Blur is the newest game in the SSX series. First of all, the graphics. The graphics really 
 are awesome, the powder snow, the cool characters and everything else in this game, well, wow. 
 Nothing can beat the feeling when you fly above the hills doing insane combos, but the feeling 
 goes flat when the mote doesn't want to obey you. This brings us to gameplay. The &uuml; bertricks 
 are too hard to do, and the character just doesn't want to land the tricks properly. It's quite 
 random, the tricks you hopelessly try to do, the backflips from ground.. Still, it works, but after 
 an hour a day, it just gets boring. Now, the sounds. Nothing bad about it, but hard to make any 
 good points. I was dissapointed, for there was no soundtrack, but it worked out good in the end. 
 The music changes the more you do tricks, and if you fall, it stops. Of course, the DJ of Radio 
 Big, Atomica, is again hosting the game. After he says the same things five times in a row, it 
 gets almost annoying. Well, eve though there are more bad things than good things, Wii has a small 
 variety of games this far, so this is one you should try, anyway. If not buying, rent it or buy 
 a used one.
  
  The Good:
  + The Feeling.
  + The views.
  + The sounds.
  + Takes time to clear.
  
  The Bad:
  - Very, VERY hard to learn.
  - The controls/&uuml; bertricks.
 
  - .. The gameplay deserves 2 minuses.
  
  The Description:
  If your Wii's gathering dust in the corner, here's something you might want to try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnknownHedgehog
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 7, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  Well, this is it. The fifth installment in the smash SSX series and the best so far. This is also 
 the series' debut on the Wii. It may look like a challenge at first, but as you keep playing, you 
 get better. But remember, the levels get harder as you advance. You will need a Nunchuck to play 
 this game. You use the Nunchuck to steer, jump, balance on rails and use your boost. You use the 
 Wiimote to perform spins, flips and Ubertricks. Anyway, like in SSX On Tour, you'll be able to 
 hit the slopes with either a snowboard or a pair of skis. You won't be able to make your own character 
 however, so you'll just have to stick with the ones you get. You'll start off with a few characters, 
 but as you keep playing, you'll get more. In Career Mode, as an SSX pro, you need to stay ahead 
 of your opponents, win competitions and conquer peaks. You can either skip straight to the level 
 you want to play or explore the peak for a while and then run into a new level afterwards. You 
 can either play a single event such as a Slopestyle Showoff, a Slalom, a Race, a Big Air Showoff 
 or a Half-Pipe Showoff, or you can enter a tournament which includes several events. To stay ahead 
 of the tournament, you need to at least qualify. If you don't do well, you can get kicked out of 
 the tournament. This affects your rank in the leaderboard. If you get in 1st Place in the 1st Heat 
 of an Event, you can skip straight to the 3rd Heat! Pretty cool, huh? In this game, there's a new 
 way to perform Ubertricks. When the Groove Meter is half-full, when you jump, if you see DRAW UBERSHAPE 
 at the bottom of the screen, you can press and hold the A Button and draw in several shapes. (eg. 
 A heart or a coathanger) You don't hear as much voiceovers as in SSX Tricky. You normally hear 
 the music more. And get this: the better you do and the faster you go, the more groovy the music 
 sounds. If you're not moving at all, or if you wipe out, the music stops. But when you get going, 
 the music starts again. Well, for the first time ever, snowboarding action came to the Wii and 
 has given smiles to many sporty gamers. Not even Wii Sports and CoolBoarders can compete with this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DTbikerider9
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 4, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  SSX Blur is on the wii with awesome presentation including sound and graphics. Thats right the 
 graphics are some of the best on the wii currently they show the beauty of snowboarding in the 
 snow covered mountains. WHen you fall you also get snow on you and overall the depth in graphics 
 and detail is amazing for a wii game. The sound is even better. While you land awesome combos and 
 stellar tricks the music gets more and more intense but as you mees-up or fall the music starts 
 slow again. ALL music incorperates a good flow in the game through the gameplay. The other envirement 
 sounds such as animals or your snowboard hitting ice, snow or anything else are also nicely done. 
 NOW with yhe gamplay. The layout like any other ssx game 3 peeks about 20 characters and snowboards 
 you do the math. THeres different kinds of races, half pipe and big air challenges to keep ya busy. 
 BUT the controls are plain awefull. These controls make you not want to play the game. The controller 
 layout just doesn't work with the trick you'll be pulling off. Also some of the characters are 
 badly done with their skills and abilities so theres another lacking feature. All in all its a 
 pretty good game with awesome presentation but controlls and character depth lack very, very deeply. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: presto7640
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 3, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Blur feels like a smaller, less impressive version of SSX 3. You have your choice of five or so 
 characters at the beginning of the game, with the chance to unlock several more. There are also 
 boards, skis, and clothing to unlock, but far less than were available in SSX 3.
  
  Most of the controls work great (I especially like using the nunchuk to carve) , but there is certainly 
 a learning curve. The only exception is the uber tricks. To perform an uber trick, you have to 
 trace a shape shown to you at the bottom of the screen; some are more complicated than others. 
 With practice, you can perform them fairly consistently, but there always seems to be some element 
 of randomness involved. To be perfectly honest, you can trace the shape exactly as it is shown 
 on-screen and nothing will happen. You have to draw it how the designers intended you to draw it, 
 which is a problem since you have no reference to help you figure out how. It took me quite a while 
 to get a feel for it, and I still experience phases where all of a sudden I cant do one of the 
 tricks anymore  one that I had no problem with before. Needless to say, this becomes a significant 
 source of frustration when you absolutely cannot figure out what youre doing wrong.
  
  Even with the difficulty of the controls, I still find that I am having no trouble winning events 
 and earning unlocks  In fact, its happening a bit easier than I feel like it should. This made 
 it difficult to give this game a difficulty rating, because the controls are hard to get the hang 
 of... yet, paradoxically, the game is fairly easy.
  
  The graphics are fine - not great, not bad. The characters have a cartoony style to them, which 
 doesnt seem as crisp as it could be.
  
  The music is nice, and becomes more intense as you perform better on the slopes, but there isnt 
 enough variety in it. Also, if you liked having EA tracks in other SSX games, youre out of luck 
 here. However, the DJ does return.
  
  A few annoyances are still left over from other SSX games. At times you will simply bounce off 
 the front of a rail, even though you were lined up with it perfectly. Also, some parts of the mountain 
 look like they are part of the course, when in fact they are off limits  this was a pet peeve 
 of mine in SSX 3, and Im not glad to see it again.
  
  Blur does deliver the speed and insanity that makes SSX a great series; it just doesnt have as 
 much of it. If you like the series, I would still recommend it despite its faults, but try to get 
 it on sale because Im just not sure that its a $50 value and make sure you have the patience 
 for some trial and error with the controls. If youve never played SSX before, you might want to 
 rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nears_puzzle
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  This new, cartoony, and very fun game should deffinetly be in any Wii owners collection. In this 
 instalment , you (like wise to On Tour) , have the ability to use skiis or a snowboard. There is 
 a gud balance between the items in that some have more trick, speed, etc. Also, the creators have 
 decided to make the game more artsy and cartoony = small characters, insane tricks, big boards/skiis, 
 etc. In my opinion, this was a great idea and a gud difference from the other SSX titles. The games 
 controls can be frustrating at times and the game is very challenging at times . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evertonlad5
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  Tiger Woods 07 or SSX Blur? That was the question I faced at Game the other day. I had enough money 
 for a new game and had narrowed it down to two. I was in desperate need for a good sports game 
 (longer than WIi Sports anyway) and these two were my favourite. After a while I decided to get 
 SSX. As a fan of the series I thought the new controls sounded interesting and it looked like a 
 lot of fun. I could remember the SSX 3 days, carving down the slopes of the mountains and having 
 a blast. With the Wii's new controls, I thought my experience would be enhanced. And I was right.
 
  
  Although not as good as SSX 3 (yet, I'm only on the first peak) SSX Blur is possibly better than 
 Tricky. Why? The new controls are great, it looks great, and sounds great. The graphics are very 
 good, the new art style suites the Wii nicely. In Widescreen 480p it looks brilliant. Add the new 
 controls and a refreshing sound track, Blur is a amazing game. However there are a few issues, 
 one being the frame rate issues. When carving down the mountain, your character seems to vibrate 
 insanely as you turn. Although not a massive problem, getting rid of it would make the experience 
 a whole lot better. And as for the ubertricks, you probably already know. However they are not 
 half as bad as people are making out. Just inconsistent.
  
  Overall, SSX Blur is a very good game for the Wii and is a much needed game in the drought we are 
 seeing at the moment. Lets hope it gets better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killermonkey97
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 27, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  In SSX Blur for the Wii, you do what you do for the other SSX games: choose your snowboarder (or 
 ski-person, as in On Tour) snowboard (and like On Tour, Ski!) through different peaks, and challenges, 
 and collect stuff that pop everywhere. The difference? Simple answer: Wii controls; innovative 
 Wii controls. Now that you get the gist, now to explain more about SSX Blur:
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Gameplay: SSX never seems to disappoint me. SSX Blur is no exception, despite it lacking in some 
 parts. But first, what you need to know about the game's gameplay. Well, in Career Mode, you start 
 choosing a character with the characters selected; skill levels low, of course. Then, you begin 
 to board. I didn't notice a game tutorial, but I was suprised how easy I learned these controls; 
 you might even be suprised how intuitive you'll find it. Basically, you use the nunchuck's control 
 stick to move your character down the slope. Tricks would include you moving your controller in 
 different directions, including the occasional button-holds, such as the Z button and the button 
 to speed-up and do quick jumps. And, really, that's all you would have to know. There might be 
 more to understand (such as the trick to grind) , and it might sound complicated, and in the first 
 few minutes, it is; but you'll learn everything quite easily quite quickly. Also, something you'll 
 notice on your TV screen is what is called the Uber-meter . As you progress through tricks, and 
 as long as you didn't bail or screw up your speed somehow, you can do tricks; max out, and you 
 can do amazing tricks, such as unreal spins, grabs, and even flips. The Uber-meter isn't anything 
 to lavish or hype over, but it sure does make the game give you something to strive for while your 
 striving for something else at the same time, which can make fun. Anyways, in career mode, you 
 will have to perform challenges. This is mainly races, trick competitions, etc. As you rank up 
 and progress, it will get only even more fun, and superbly designed at that. Overall, the main 
 meat of SSX Blur should turn out to be a fun experience. The problem? Well, there isn't much to 
 anything to look forward to after you're done with the game. There isn't anything to create, namely 
 no characters, which I wish did not go away here. That, and more stuff would've been nice, to further 
 lenthen the SSX experience, and the controls can be frustrating due to some feel of nonresponsiveness. 
 But really, there shouldn't be much to complain about gameplay-wise. It may lack in spots that 
 would've made this game better, but there's a thrill ride out of this game.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Graphics: SSX Blur's looks are, well, sort of blurry, but it is a sure a highlight of the game 
 itself. Though blurry, Blur has an good sense of speed, and makes the looks more appealing. Add 
 a nice-looking environment, and you get a mostly good-looking Wii game.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Sound: As the alternative can be a neat twist, it really shouldn't happen in some things. I really 
 wish that they left the trash talking and the licensed tracks. Sure, the radio announcer and the 
 unlicensed music is alright, and the fact that it the music stops and repeats itself everytime 
 a mistake has been made is quite interesting, there's just not enough of an excuse to take away 
 the liscensed tracks, let alone all the character's trashy attitude. The sound is all right, but, 
 oh, it could simply be better.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Value: Multiplayer and the career mode are clear highlights in the whole replay value department. 
 Otherwise, there isn't much to look for in this game. For career mode, there's plenty of things 
 to do and collect, and believe me, there's alot to collect. But afterwards, value narrows down 
 to offline multiplayer, which is, in fact, fun. SSX Blur is addictive, but there's not enough to 
 make this as addictive and varied as its predecessors. I'm not trying to put this game down or 
 anything; it's just the fact that SSX has had more variety than this.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Tilt: Sure, SSX Blur is more of a step down compared to what the previous SSX games offered, but 
 that's not saying that this isn't a good game for the Wii and even a good snowboarding (or skiing) 
 game, because the game certainly is. The controls, though a little frustrating at times (especially 
 at the beginning) , are pretty intuitive, and is one of the reasons SSX Blur made it fun for me. 
 SSX fans will have a slight disappointment of what's in store, but need not worry; there's still 
 fun enough here for at least a rental, but can be worthy for newcomers to check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricardo -- Diaz
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  I was first introduced to the snowboarding franchise on the Nintendo 64 with the excellent 1080 
 Snowboarding. Since then I have always had a keen interest in these types of games when I can get 
 my hands on them.
  I began my SSX experience with the second installment called SSX Tricky. This game was arguably 
 the best snowboarding game ever made purely for its intense style (never has an EA logo looked 
 so hardcore) , out-of-this-world Ubertricks and excellent cast of characters who draw you deeper 
 into the game's vibe. This being the case, I can't say I've had a negative experience with the 
 series and so any preconceptions I had about SSX Blur were entirely positive.
  
  I have heard many accusations about EA trying to milk the series for all it's worth and to some 
 extent I am not surprised. After all it's EA we're talking about here. However, the gaming giant 
 has decided to shake the franchise on its head with SSX Blur including a radical new control scheme 
 based on the Wii's motion sensing capabilities. Just like previous versions of the game, SSX Blur 
 gives you almost every imaginable way to carve down a snow-covered mountain on a waxed plank along 
 with those other things you might have heard about... umm... what's the word... skis!
  
  The main gameplay component is the Career mode which starts you off as a lowly grommet with almost 
 no skills and a single mountain slope to learn the basics. Events are placed at different locations 
 on the mountain and you can either make your own way to them or select which event to try in the 
 in-game menu. The list of events includes Slopestyle, Half-pipes, Races, Slalom, One on One and 
 many others and you progress by winning these events and unlocking new content, skills and new 
 Tournaments. These events can be quite challenging and you really need to practice and get your 
 skills up if you want to achieve any success.
  
  Speaking of practice, this game is no walk in the park. Not only does it take some degree of coordination 
 with controlling your character, you will find sticking the Ubertricks quite a challenge if you 
 aren't patient. First of all you carve by twisting the Nun chuck controller left or right. To dig 
 your edges a little harder for a sharper turn you can use the analogue stick in conjunction with 
 the tilting. This will seem a little disconcerting at first but once you get used to it, you'll 
 be carving and launching off ramps so accurately that you'll never want to go back to the old control 
 format.
  Nearly all of the tricks are performed by the remote except for grabs which use the Z button. Essentially 
 you press A to start your mid-air performance and finish it by pressing A again.
  
  The Uber tricks in Blur have been the subject of many discussions and have led to a polarisation 
 of opinions on the game overall. To perform Ubertricks in SSX Blur you must draw a designated shape 
 in the air while holding the A button. This can be quite difficult at first and, at times, becomes 
 quite frustrating. This is the very reason why some critics have lowered their overall score for 
 the game. However, and this is a BIG however, what these critics don't usually possess is time 
 on their hands to master the game. Some have said that the Wii has trouble picking up the movements. 
 What they fail to realise is that the Wii has the movement plotted to a reasonable accuracy. The 
 PLAYER was the one making the wrong movements and this is where the game really shines as a true 
 hardcore-gamer's game. You must LEARN the movement to perfection, and when you do you will be rewarded 
 with Uber after Uber after Uber.
  
  The soundtrack, produced by the breakbeat legend Junkie XL, is another integral part of the SSX 
 Blur experience and not just some background noise plonked into the game for no reason. Each time 
 you successfully land a trick your Groove Meter will build. Then for each segment of the bar you 
 reach, a new audio layer will be added to the soundtrack. Once you reach the limit of the meter 
 you will be graced with a brain-humping soundtrack that will send shivers down your spine as you 
 pull off every subsequent Uber trick in short succession. In addition, while you perform each Ubertrick, 
 the music drowns out and you're left with a matrix-style camera movement. The very moment you land, 
 the music roars back in a single, pounding beat and you feel an overwhelming sense of achievement 
 from it. This makes for a thoroughly enjoyable experience once you have mastered even the basic 
 Uber moves. On the other hand, however, there is a DJ who, like every DJ on this green Earth, loves 
 the sound of his own voice. Thankfully, he can be turned down so that the pumping soundtrack can 
 drown out his voice.
  
  Some of the gameplay elements in Blur are a little tame, just like the new EA Big logo as you begin 
 the game. When you finish a race it seems that there is some kind of ghostly audience cheering 
 for you because there is nobody to be seen on the sidelines. This is very disconcerting because, 
 say, if you've just completed the most gnarley trick combo in the world and you've glided elegantly 
 to the finish, you are shown standing at the finish line all on your own without a single soul 
 to be seen except for a few disembodied voices crying yay . Hardly a rewarding experience for a 
 game that relies on spending hours to perfect moves.
  Another mediocre aspect of Blur is that there is no narrative to give you a connection with any 
 of the characters' personalities. These guys are the raddest, baddest bunch of snowboarders (and 
 skiiers) in the SSX universe and yet there is not a single cut scene showing them smack-talking 
 the opposition or showing off how sweet their awesome skills are. While this may be an intentional 
 omission by EA, it is something which would have made this game trump the utter craziness that 
 was Tricky.
  
  The graphics in Blur are a step above anything that has been produced for the Wii and make the 
 game look very polished. From the funky animated menu screens, powder effects, excellent sense 
 of speed and the lens flare as you launch off a ramp and into the sunlight, the visuals are very 
 well presented.
  
  Overall SSX Blur is definitely a fresh new look on a franchise that is increasingly becoming worn 
 out with repetitive formulas. While there are some features that are lacking the pizazz that games 
 like Tricky dealt out by the truck-load, you are still rewarded where it counts and the game provides 
 excellent entertainment for your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 26, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Well it's not all bad, but I have to say that I am a little disapointed with EA's SSX first attempt 
 on the Wii. It's mostly because of the controls. We'll get into that as the review goes on. SSX 
 Blur is almost exactly like it's prior entries. There are 3 mountains in which you compete in 4 
 to 5 seperate events (Race, Half Pipe, etc.) . As you progress the game get harder, the AI smarter, 
 and you unlock characters and uniforms for your players. It's pretty much the same old idea as 
 past incarnations and other extreme sports games. The graphics do impress. The sun sparkles very 
 nicely off the snow, and the attention to detail is very nice. The animation is fluid with all 
 the contestants and the attention to detail is just as nice to them. It's one of the stronger graphiced 
 games on the Wii at this point.
  
  The music isn't quite as good as past incarnations, but radio BIG is back and full of comments 
 and hip hop like music. I do enjoy how as you pick up speed and do great tricks that the music 
 picks up and eggs you on to do more. The sounds and voice overs are nice enough and it's fun to 
 hear the boarders yell back and forth at each other. But here's where it seperates itself from 
 the other games. The Wiimote, it's the games newest function but bad implimentation. blur makes 
 you use the nunchuck and the wiimote, which to me feels ackward in a boarding game. I feel that 
 all the funtions should be on the Wiimote it's self and that the play should hold it horizontally. 
 The control scheme doesn't feel natural. Particularly since you have to use the nunchuck for the 
 turning and the speeding up, slowing down, balance, and jumping. It makes for a tired left hand 
 in my case. The Wiimote it's self does all the arial tricks. Awesome arial tricks that are easy 
 to do is what SSX is known for, well not in this case. It's VERY difficult to land a trick because 
 you really can't tell the character to stop performing. Furthermore if you are trying to do a ubertrick, 
 it's even more difficult to pull off because you have to do a certain drawing toward the sensor 
 with the Wiimote. It doesn't always pick up the drawing and often times you land flat on your face. 
 The controls aren't easy to pick up and go and feel ackward to me in this type of game. EA did 
 a great job adapting Madden to the Wii's new style, but SSX feels like it needs more work. Maybe 
 next time..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daspotjoel
Rating: 5.9
Date: Mar 26, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  Ok, just a quick note before i start the review: My noticably high score on the sound aspect of 
 the game is slightly bias, do to the fact that I simply love the self-produced music in the game. 
 SSX blur is the first ssx game to hit next generation systems (ps3, 360, wii) and also the first 
 snowboarding game on the wii (you probably already know this by now) . SSX Blur introduces wii's 
 motion sensitivity to its already fast paced, arcade snowbording game with extemely mixed results. 
 The first time I played the game right off the bat, I noticed that the graphics seem clean, easy 
 on the eyes, and runs on a solid frame rate ( I havent seen it drop from 60 yet) . A nice visual 
 effect is given when a character is snowboarding, the snowboard leaves a trail of parted snow where 
 the you have boarded, giving it a next gen look. The characters look good, but unaccurate from 
 the image they've been given in previous SSX games (even though the game takes place 2 years after 
 the last ssx events, the new look they give moby is quite obserd and looks like an all around new 
 character) . The characters also dont have any voice acting what so ever making them feel like random 
 characters snowboarding. The tracks look more normal than ever, and also the tricky moves seem 
 more believable and partially realistic (if thats your cup of tea then take it) . Since tricky, I 
 thought SSX was about doing over the top tricks like acually taking your feet off the board doing 
 the worm or spinning senslessly over top of your board on an artificially made mountain peak sorrounded 
 by a roaring croud full of vivaciousness and coucaphony! Graphics and sound aside what really makes 
 this game different is the controls, only made possible with wii's inovative motion sensitive remote 
 and nunchuck attachment. This also comes with mixed results. In the first hour of play with tutorial 
 help i was abel to carve down the slopes easy with just a slight turn of the nunchuck. You are 
 also able to do tricks by holding the the triggers and tilting the nunchuck in the direction given 
 for the tricks. That was fun.. for about 2 hours, and after a while I found myself flailing my arms 
 around like a congregation in a baptist church. This brings me to the almost completely comborsum 
 ubertrick system. I was simply dazed by the first shape given to draw for the trick, but besides 
 that, i never got it to work. I always winded up doing another shaped ubertrick which all in all 
 made me execute another. The system seemed rushed and that was primarily the main attraction to 
 the game. The overall experience seemed rushed, but it was still an ok experience that I can slightly 
 recommend to snowboarding game fans that dont know much about SSX, but to the diehard fans; no 
 voice acting from charcters, recycled levels, semi-realistic ubertricks, a slightly combersome 
 control scheme, Moby's appearence, and the sarchastic new EA BIG narrarator really hurt the SSX 
 name and I just cant recommend it to us. But, all in all, SSX Blur has awsome music.. lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mesayni
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 25, 2007 1:37 am PT
Review:  I should make it clear that I've been an SSX fan since Tricky. I was amused by Tricky, amazed by 
 SSX 3, and had a bit of fun with On Tour. So I was a little disappointed by the poor reviews given 
 to Blur but I decided to get the game because I'm a fan of the series. Long story short, I don't 
 know what all the negative reactions were about. This is not a bad game at all, in fact it's very 
 ambitious with its reworking of the control scheme and delivers a gaming experience unlike anything 
 I've had before. My only gripe really is that all the tracks and characters (besides 2) are old 
 and there's very little of the constant innovation that defined SSX 3 as the greatest game in the 
 series. But to me, it's obvious that the effort that might have been pulled away from designing 
 new courses has been poured into the control scheme. It just feels right, from steering with the 
 nunchuk to drawing ubertricks. It's not all easy, but it is all intuitive, a paradox that I feel 
 is essential to the Wii's continued success as something besides a kiddie console. Unfortunately, 
 this makes the game a lot less pick up and playable than other Wii games. On the good side, it 
 has tons of replay value and makes you feel pretty awesome when you pull off a string of spinning 
 ubertricks linked by a board press initiated with the nunchuk. It's always felt awesome in SSX, 
 just never quite like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetravman
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 25, 2007 12:49 am PT
Review:  SSX is now a well known series that proved to be more successful than any other games with powder. 
 You would think the developers will make this game alot like the other games, but it's not. Some 
 may notice a few things that are left in the dark. Downside to this, that it loses more variety 
 than any other SSX game. Create a character is taken away, shops is taken away, and my most favourite 
 multiplayer mode is also taken away, freeskate. This game actually feels rushed, or just an experiment 
 to test Wii controls. For whatever reason this SSX title has suffered many losses, it's still a 
 fun game, due to unique and different controls.
  
  Graphics shows it's shine and beauty in this game. The environment is fully interactive, the sunset 
 is so realistic whenever it blinds you, and crashing through tree branches just proves the grahics 
 are top-notch. Although, it isn't perfect. Character models are interesting to look at, but just 
 isn't high-qualilty. Also, when playing multiplayer, the environment isn't fully visible ahead 
 of you, so it can be difficult to choose any direction fast. Multiplayer in SSX games always suffered 
 through some issues, so it doesn't really matter.
  
  The gameplay is no-doubt, the heart and soul of this game. It's totally different then what SSX 
 fanatics are used to, and it's possible they won't be disappointed with this makeover. It may not 
 look like much by looking at the controller and think, how do you use this ? It can take a while 
 to get used to the controls, especially mastering special tricks. So be patient and enjoy the ride 
 after perfection (I know you will) . The music in the game will trigger a body part to start moving 
 with the beat. This game lacks a playlist with songs from known artists. Even without a familiar 
 playlist, the game still has it's catchy tunes that makes up for it. SSX games always has that 
 sound change when it comes to doing special tricks so the player can feel that bit of sensation. 
 This game does that, but also changes the sound when a wipeout occurs, or stopped completely. This 
 really lights the fuse of the action.
  
  As mentioned before, the game lacks variety due to missing elements that was present in previous 
 SSX games. This game as a career mode which you freeskate down 3 peaks and follow paths to certain 
 challenges or tournaments. Challenges includes racing, slopestyle, grinding distance, flags etc. 
 These challenges can be amusing and sometimes causes frusteration later on in the game. After finishing 
 career, there isn't much more you can do. Career doesn't have much replay value.
  
  Despite its lackluster elements in the game, this is a game worth checking out. First timers will 
 definitely love this game to the fullest. Elderly fans will enjoy the game, and hopefully accept 
 the fact that this game feels more like an experiment than an actual SSX game on Wii. Now, let's 
 hope that more perfected SSX titles are on their way to the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: selbie
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 24, 2007 6:06 am PT
Review:  I was first introduced to the snowboarding franchise on the Nintendo 64 with the excellent 1080 
 Snowboarding. Since then I have always had a keen interest in these types of games when I can get 
 my hands on them.
  I began my SSX experience with the second installment called SSX Tricky. This game was arguably 
 the best snowboarding game ever made purely for its intense style (never has an EA logo looked 
 so hardcore) , out-of-this-world Ubertricks and excellent cast of characters who draw you deeper 
 into the game's vibe. This being the case, I can't say I've had a negative experience with the 
 series and so any preconceptions I had about SSX Blur were entirely positive.
  
  I have heard many accusations about EA trying to milk the series for all it's worth and to some 
 extent I am not surprised. After all it's EA we're talking about here. However, the gaming giant 
 has decided to shake the franchise on its head with SSX Blur including a radical new control scheme 
 based on the Wii's motion sensing capabilities. Just like previous versions of the game, SSX Blur 
 gives you almost every imaginable way to carve down a snow-covered mountain on a waxed plank along 
 with those other things you might have heard about... umm... what's the word... skis!
  
  The main gameplay component is the Career mode which starts you off as a lowly grommet with almost 
 no skills and a single mountain slope to learn the basics. Events are placed at different locations 
 on the mountain and you can either make your own way to them or select which event to try in the 
 in-game menu. The list of events includes Slopestyle, Half-pipes, Races, Slalom, One on One and 
 many others and you progress by winning these events and unlocking new content, skills and new 
 Tournaments. These events can be quite challenging and you really need to practice and get your 
 skills up if you want to achieve any success.
  
  Speaking of practice, this game is no walk in the park. Not only does it take some degree of coordination 
 with controlling your character, you will find sticking the Ubertricks quite a challenge if you 
 aren't patient. First of all you carve by twisting the Nun chuck controller left or right. To dig 
 your edges a little harder for a sharper turn you can use the analogue stick in conjunction with 
 the tilting. This will seem a little disconcerting at first but once you get used to it, you'll 
 be carving and launching off ramps so accurately that you'll never want to go back to the old control 
 format.
  Nearly all of the tricks are performed by the remote except for grabs which use the Z button. Essentially 
 you press A to start your mid-air performance and finish it by pressing A again.
  
  The Uber tricks in Blur have been the subject of many discussions and have led to a polarisation 
 of opinions on the game overall. To perform Ubertricks in SSX Blur you must draw a designated shape 
 in the air while holding the A button. This can be quite difficult at first and, at times, becomes 
 quite frustrating. This is the very reason why some critics have lowered their overall score for 
 the game. However, and this is a BIG however, what these critics don't usually possess is time 
 on their hands to master the game. Some have said that the Wii has trouble picking up the movements. 
 What they fail to realise is that the Wii has the movement plotted to a reasonable accuracy. The 
 PLAYER was the one making the wrong movements and this is where the game really shines as a true 
 hardcore-gamer's game. You must LEARN the movement to perfection, and when you do you will be rewarded 
 with Uber after Uber after Uber.
  
  The soundtrack, produced by the breakbeat legend Junkie XL, is another integral part of the SSX 
 Blur experience and not just some background noise plonked into the game for no reason. Each time 
 you successfully land a trick your Groove Meter will build. Then for each segment of the bar you 
 reach, a new audio layer will be added to the soundtrack. Once you reach the limit of the meter 
 you will be graced with a brain-humping soundtrack that will send shivers down your spine as you 
 pull off every subsequent Uber trick in short succession. In addition, while you perform each Ubertrick, 
 the music drowns out and you're left with a matrix-style camera movement. The very moment you land, 
 the music roars back in a single, pounding beat and you feel an overwhelming sense of achievement 
 from it. This makes for a thoroughly enjoyable experience once you have mastered even the basic 
 Uber moves. On the other hand, however, there is a DJ who, like every DJ on this green Earth, loves 
 the sound of his own voice. Thankfully, he can be turned down so that the pumping soundtrack can 
 drown out his voice.
  
  Some of the gameplay elements in Blur are a little tame, just like the new EA Big logo as you begin 
 the game. When you finish a race it seems that there is some kind of ghostly audience cheering 
 for you because there is nobody to be seen on the sidelines. This is very disconcerting because, 
 say, if you've just completed the most gnarley trick combo in the world and you've glided elegantly 
 to the finish, you are shown standing at the finish line all on your own without a single soul 
 to be seen except for a few disembodied voices crying yay . Hardly a rewarding experience for a 
 game that relies on spending hours to perfect moves.
  Another mediocre aspect of Blur is that there is no narrative to give you a connection with any 
 of the characters' personalities. These guys are the raddest, baddest bunch of snowboarders (and 
 skiiers) in the SSX universe and yet there is not a single cut scene showing them smack-talking 
 the opposition or showing off how sweet their awesome skills are. While this may be an intentional 
 omission by EA, it is something which would have made this game trump the utter craziness that 
 was Tricky.
  
  The graphics in Blur are a step above anything that has been produced for the Wii and make the 
 game look very polished. From the funky animated menu screens, powder effects, excellent sense 
 of speed and the lens flare as you launch off a ramp and into the sunlight, the visuals are very 
 well presented.
  
  Overall SSX Blur is definitely a fresh new look on a franchise that is increasingly becoming worn 
 out with repetitive formulas. While there are some features that are lacking the pizazz that games 
 like Tricky dealt out by the truck-load, you are still rewarded where it counts and the game provides 
 excellent entertainment for your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolf8j
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 23, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  SSX Blur disappointed me. It seemed like they really rushed this game as much as they could. Gameplay:
 
  I thought that the general steering controls, and jumping was all OK with the wii. The problem 
 was tricks. Grabs arent a problem, and spins arent either. The small problem is with the flips, 
 as once your character starts spinning/flipping, the don't stop. However the main problem is ubertricks. 
 I've been able to pull of a handful of ubertricks and that's about it. In all the past games, all 
 you had to do was press two buttons and you did a trick, and when you let go they stop the trick. 
 With blur you have to hold down A, and then try to draw a random shape, while at the same time, 
 your character is plummeting to an uncomfortable fall, and then finally you have to press A again 
 in time to have them stop doing the trick. Also the lack of different uber tricks is annoying as 
 well, unless that is, i just wasnt able to see them, as its so hard to concentrate on watching 
 your character while doing 3 other things. Graphics:
  They pretty much took most of the old areas from SSX3, added a sun glare, and bam, theyre done 
 with the courses. The characters are the worst part graphically. In the past games i used to like 
 looking at my character, and saying they looked cool. In blur they look like a cartoon. Theres 
 also the lack of what your character has to wear. Sound: By far a great addition to the game. The 
 different beats added a feel to it. Also i liked the fact that if you started going fast (used 
 boost) or were on super uber, the beat would go faster. The only disappointment was that they didn't 
 have any choice where you could play actual bands instead of the beats.
  
  Replay Value:
  Like i said rent it first. Then if you think this is a game for you, buy it. (To tell you the truth, 
 id re-buy SSX3 if it were exactly the same except for the Wii, over buying this game lol.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GumbieuK
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 23, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Yet another very solid entry into the SSX series and with it's brilliantly mapped WiI controls 
 in my opinion it is the best entry into the SSX series.
  
  Great gameplay, nice graphics, great sound, a very fun game that at the same time can get VERY 
 frustrating as i have found out when i introduced my Wii remote to my bedroom wall i was so frustrated 
 with it.
  
  Different people seem to have different problems with the game, for example people are unable to 
 preform the Ubertricks but can complete the slalom no problem and for others it's the opposite 
 and that's the bracket i fit into, can preform the Ubertricks easily but really struggle on the 
 Slalom.
  Although the game play is great fun it can also just make you want to pack the game in. There's 
 some nice unlocks and nice tournaments, characters are easy to obtain and the also being able to 
 improve your stats is a great feature, and allows the earlier challenges to be completed more easily 
 to obtain a better score and medal.
  
  The controls are mapped well, although on the odd occasion do feel slightly random but it's not 
 greatly noticeable, Ubertricks are easy to pull off and generally match the symbols well.
  
  All in all a great Wii title and definately worth the money, a recommended buy to any Wii owner 
 or SSX fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wikkedclown17
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 22, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  SSX Blur. I read the review in EGM and they gave it a 7 point something. And i thought that was 
 a bit odd cause all other SSX games have gotten a little better than that. So I went out and rented 
 it and at first was pissed. I was about to track down the game makers and shoot them. This was 
 because of the controls. But after about thirty minutes to an hour and a little bit of sensitivity 
 adjusting, I was shredding slopes in no time. Gameplay:
  I suggest getting used to the control scheme before diving into carreer mode. Trust me, it'll help. 
 But after mastering the controls, story mode is great. You have to do pretty much what you've been 
 doing since SSX3. Unlock three mountains by doing competitions, grudge matches and other little 
 goals scattered here and there. Unlock new boards and characters in grudge matches. As in SSX on 
 tour, you can choose between skiis or snowboard.
  
  Gameplay: 4/5. Plenty of options but more never hurts. ;) Graphics:
  The graphics on the wii 
 haven't astounded anybody like the PS3 or X360 yet. But it's coming along nicely. The graphics 
 are a step above the SSX's on GC but won't wow you so to speak. Nothing special in this department, 
 but nothing for me to really complain about.
  
  Graphics: 3.5/5 Keep working towards it nintendo, you'll get it.
  
  Controls:
  The controls 
 in SSX Blur... hmmm. Well. I'll be honest. At first you'll want to shoot somebody. But after tweaking 
 it to your likeness and a bit of practice, you'll be havin' fun in no time. The snowboarding controls 
 are a bit easier but I perfer skiis cause its a bit more challenging at first. You Jump by either 
 hitting 'A' on the wii-mote or jerking up on the nunchuck. You carve back and forth by either swishing 
 the nunchuck back and forth or steering with the joystick. You can choose if you want to either 
 use just one of them or a combanation of both. You do spins and flips by jerking up on the wii-mote 
 and turning it left and right. you do tricks by holding 'Z' and tilting the nunchuck simultaniously. 
 Ubertricks are a bit of a hastle because now you have to draw a shape in the air when your boost 
 is full to get 'tricky' its is kinda boring and you look like a douche bag doing it. controls: 
 4/5 Good, but i could do with a bit more reactiveness on the default. also, get rid of the damned 
 ubershapes.
  
  Multiplayer: I really think EA big should have waited until nintendo online was up and running 
 for the wii so we could have online slope madness. But instead it has disappointing split screen 
 races. tut, tut EA.
  
  multiplayer: 1/5 I should smack the director of the multiplayer mode. GIVE US ONLINE RACES!!!
 
  
  Overview:
  SSX Blur is a sweet addition to the SSX series. Great challenges, fun tricks and plenty of extras 
 makes for a good amount of replay value. But sometimes unresponsive controls and lack of online 
 multiplayer will leave you feeling raped by the proverbial game demon. Also, you might feel the 
 creeping sensation of deja vu on some of the slopes. Don't worry, your not going crazy, they recycled 
 some of the segments on the mountains from previous SSX installments. +5 for trying to be sneaky 
 bastards EA, but -20 for getting caught red handed. All in all, its definatley a game to pick up 
 if you got a wii. But I'd definately wait until it drops in price; because $50 is like taking it 
 up the doo-doo hole from the game makers.
  
  SSX Blur: 4/5 Rock on, games like you make my nipples hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 22, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: To be completely honest, I played this game having never played any of the previous SSX 
 entries... which as it seems, is a better way to experience this game.
  If you have ever played a snowboarding, or even skateboarding game then you know how this works. 
 You control your character using the nunchuk's tilt sensor and analog stick, and make motions with 
 the Wii remote to perform tricks which in return will add up to tons of points... or in this case, 
 points and an increase in your Groove Meter . As far as the controls go, it all works pretty well, 
 and thankfully doesn't feel completely overdone. However, most of the time when your performing 
 tricks with the Wii remote, you tend to notice that there is no real skill to it, you end up just 
 randomly waving the Wii remote around hoping to score more points.
  The ubertricks would be where the real skill is involved. Overall there are around twenty or so 
 ubertricks, which unfortunately almost all of them you have to unlock (it's actually very hard 
 to get even one new ubertrick) by collecting small tokens you see during Free Ride . You perform 
 ubertricks by drawing a particular shape with the Wii remote, which will make your character perform 
 a stunt while in mid-air. At that point, the longer you go in the air while doing the trick, the 
 more points you'll rack up... however this is where the groove meter comes into play. The fuller 
 your meter is, the more points you'll rack up when doing an ubertrick. In addition to this, you 
 need to have a certain portion of the groove meter filled to even think about performing an ubertrick. 
 While the concept is occassionally unresponsive, you'll find that the more you practice an ubertrick, 
 the better you'll get at memorizing and drawing the shape.
  Overall, it's safe to say that the gameplay that is here is a lot of fun. While it is disappointing 
 in a few areas, particularly the fact that the career mode is short and lacks a sense of progression, 
 this is still an impressive extreme sports game and Wii game. It offers a good challenge to those 
 looking for one, and a new experience for those looking to delve into a genre they've never tried 
 before.
  
  Graphics: The visuals here do show a slight improvement over last generation. Nothing stands out 
 as amazing, but the graphics and particularly the art style add a lot to the game. In reality, 
 I would say the theme and presentation add more to the game than the art style.... considering 
 some of the character artwork is horrendous looking. It is notable though that the framerate doesn't 
 always hold up as well as it should. You tend to see a big slowdown in some courses, which can 
 be kind of frustrating considering how noticeable it is. SSX Blur still succeeds in offerring a 
 decent presentation of visuals though.
  
  Sound: Audio is a big plus for SSX Blur. The music perfectly fits the theme of the game, and the 
 radio you hear during free ride is a nice touch. The intensity of the music at times is great, 
 and as expected the music slows down when things start to slowdown... literally. It would have 
 been nice to hear more tracks in the game, but what is here fits very well into the game. Value: 
 Unfortunately, SSX Blur missed out on a lot of potential in this area. The career mode is kind 
 of short, and while there are a few different modes that you play during the game... chances are 
 you won't want to replay them over and over again. There is a multiplayer mode in the game, but 
 the lack of online play is a big disappointment, as said, because of the lost potential. You'll 
 still get a lot of enjoyment out of the game, just don't expect it to last all too long... unless 
 you are in it to unlock every single secret to be found in the game.
  In conclusion, SSX Blur is a great game, and is worthy of the SSX title. It is a great demonstration 
 on how the Wii remote can truly change how we play certain genres, and displays a good presentation 
 both in the gameplay and audion arena. Be sure to pick this game up if your looking to try out 
 a new game for Wii, or if you are an SSX fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dude17761991hat
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  The only real problem in SSX Blur is the tutorial mode. It's absolutely atrocious and helps nothing. 
 You're essentially left to figure out the controls entirely on your own which can be incredibly 
 difficult to do because they are radically different. That being said, if you are not a 4 year 
 old and can master these shockingly simple controls, you're in for a lot of fun. Simply put, the 
 game controls great. They are definitely a breath of fresh air in this and any series. The tricks 
 work well, and carving is absolutely spectacular. As for the uber-tricks, I have to assume that 
 these reviewers never actually played this game. They take maybe 10 minutes of practice to get 
 the first ones, and not much more to get the rest. The graphics look really nice, not that that 
 matters, and the sound is quite good. The game is a lot of fun, especially if you are a snowboarding 
 fan, and this game is a must have for any Wii owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathieu7
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 20, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  i think this ssx will beat al the other ssx games on the ps2 and ps3 because it seems that the 
 wii has way better gameplay, mabey not as good graffics but they can improve on that in the future 
 but that game play can keep you playing for ever and ever i cant let go of my wii mote. i realy 
 do hope to see more ssx or just any good games come out on the wii. i also do hope to see nintendo 
 improve on there graffics and mabey some more first person shooters woould be great! i am excited 
 to see many more ssx come out. good job EA SPORTS BIG! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jayze21
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 19, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  I am really looking forward to this game as i have played the previous game on the PS2 ( SSX Tricky 
 ) as a male character. Its a great game to just bust your moves on the slope and gather points 
 by doing awesome tricks over jumps and grinding your customised board down the railings and walls. 
 I would definately recommend this game to anyone who likes snowboarding games but its quite challenging 
 and will take quite a while before you get the hang of your board. Either race down the new slopes 
 or practise your skills to get your groove meter up and get some serious points. Definately buying 
 this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razza92
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 18, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  To me, i had zelda: twilight princess, i didnt really like it it just wasnt engaging for me, so 
 i set out for another wii game. There were god games but i narrowed it down to SSX Blur Tiger woods 
 07, Need for spped carbon or i couldve wait for godfather. Tiger woods i had before, the graphics 
 werent good and not much compared to the ps2 so crossed that out, i wanted a racing game but it 
 just gets abit too competitive and not enough variation in carbon. So it left me with SSX and godfather. 
 I wanted both games but godfather would come the next week, i had doubts with ssx because it was 
 40 and i wanted gofather, but i knew that ths game was something worth having. soi bought this 
 and will probably still get godfather... hehe.
  
  ok, SSX at the start it it has a few game modes (multiplayer, quickplay, carrer and tutorial) , 
 i was hoping that there would be online play and more gme modes (such as more types of snowboarding 
 - racing, couldve added some minigames) or something that would be a longer replay value. If it 
 had these, buying this game would have had no doubts.. but dont get me wrong the game is great even 
 wth limited modes. The user interface is very simple and could've added abt more design but its 
 design is fine as it is. That out of the way, strain your sef of great pleasure and enjoyment you 
 get from this game! im not kidding but the graphics are just great and blends in well, theres jsut 
 so much too take in and not like COD3, where graphics lack, this has superb graphics, especially 
 for a console not aspowerful as other next gen consoles. The blur screen when you reach extreme 
 speed is great and adds to the experience. you get an adrenaline rush especially when you dodge 
 obstacles and rach great sppeds, blur gets even bigger! This gameis wellworththe experience and enjoyment.
 
  
  Controls. ok heres the deal, controls are fine, carving tricks and all, they seem to work great, 
 and that is why find this game most enjoyable. When all thes work, the game works superbly and 
 is just mindblowing. Ubertricks, now to be honest, i havent had problems with these much ( dont 
 think i have ever) , andyou know why? putting thetimein learnng these and repeating tutorials willreward 
 you greatly. Ubertricks are greatly shown off in half pipe because i learned. EA made a challenge 
 so i took t an learned. So people who are complaining about the uber tricksoushould: take the time 
 andgo through tutorial in depth 2) move thewhole control when doing ubers, notjustpointing it to 
 make the shape! and 3, if you complaing about the challenge that ea gave why buy it!.. i mean this 
 is my first ssx game and ive learned real quick! think about it ppl!
  
  there are laods of things to unlock such as outfits skis and boards, attribute upgrades, mountains, 
 courses, characters and art sheets etc. although i know theres alot, it is really easy to unlock 
 them and i feel that imgoing through the game too much. i hope ea would make it more difficult 
 so we can put more effort and make unlocking things more enthusiasm. also outfits should be more 
 customisable and more clothes to adust the characters look and have a create a boardermode. attributes 
 could be more in depth (balance, strength) and more new characters (dont just recyclefromold ssx 
 ea) , furthermore, more ourses and peaksto add to replay value. but there are laodsof things to 
 unlock , such asall the above and collecting 275 collectibles and challenges set by other characters 
 in freeplay. although there is alot of criticism what esethey couldve added, this is one of the 
 best andsolid entry to the wii and ihope that they continue this animation type game with more 
 addons and extensions. the graphics aresuperb, sound quality is enjoybale and adds to the experience, 
 loads to do and includes multiplayer mode. a must buy, if it got a none ssx fan toplay and enjoy 
 it, then it is that good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 18, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  SSX Blur is another game in a long line of reworked ports of existing games to find their way 
 to the Nintendo Wii, although to its credit, it is one of the better ones. Blur basically takes 
 a slew of tracks from SSX games past, and stitches them together under a new mountain. This feeling 
 of sameness is forcefully countered by an interesting new control scheme that makes great use of 
 both the remote and the Nunchuck attachment. However, the controls arent without their quirks, 
 either, and it cant quite mask the fact that SSX Blur is a bit of a rip-off.
  
  The main difference youll immediately notice in Blur is the new control scheme, which takes rather 
 extensive use of both halves of the Wii controller. By tilting the Nunchuck attachment, your rider 
 will carve from side to side, and you can use the analog stick to make your turns more sharply. 
 Over on the remote, you hold in the A button to crouch and pick up speed, and just as you reach 
 the end of a jump, snapping the remote upward will send your rider sailing into the air. Afterward, 
 tipping and spinning the remote will cause your rider to spin and flip in the air accordingly. 
 At first this feels amazingly intuitive, but its rather large problems crop up early on.
  
  Chief among these problems is an overall lack of precision. For a game whose races have many winding 
 paths and small rails, the rather loose feel of the controls definitely takes some getting used 
 to. Because the game is fast-paced, it is often natural to crank the Nunchuck to one side to make 
 a sharp turn, but over-turning will cause the input to cease, and youll lose control over your 
 rider for a split second. This is especially an issue on the games final peak, whose surface is 
 filled with labyrinth trails. Theres also a very slim chance of pulling off tricks consistently, 
 and before long youll find yourself flailing your remote like a madman and hoping for the best.
 
  
  At its worst, the controls in Blur just dont function properly. The ubertricks  special maneuvers 
 that you can execute by filling up your groove meter (by doing regular tricks  require you to 
 trace patterns in the air to perform them. The problem is, it is extremely difficult to get these 
 patterns to register. Throughout the single player game, only three ubertrick patterns worked consistently 
 amongst the dozens that didnt. It takes a pretty long time to really nail the control scheme of 
 SSX Blur  and even then it has its share of frustrations  but overall it is an interesting and 
 surprisingly in-depth way to play a snowboarding title.
  
  In terms of content, Blur is functionally similar to SSX 3 and On Tour, wherein there is one seamless 
 mountain that youll gradually unlock as you win trick competitions and races. You begin at the 
 top of a peak and follow signposts and tight, linear paths to reach new challenges. In a way, it 
 is pretty satisfying to start at the highest peak and hightail it down the mountain, avoiding environmental 
 hazards like icicle shards and avalanches along the way. However, individual load times that accompany 
 each challenge detract heavily from the feeling of having a continuous environment. In the end, 
 it would have been much easier to simply select the different events from a menu of some sort.
 
  
  The events themselves are more or less what youd expect from SSX, or any other game of this type. 
 Races are straightforward barrels down the slopes where youll need to pay attention to your contours 
 down the hill as well as remembering to trick off jumps consistently to keep at top-speed. Theres 
 also a large helping of half-pipe events where reaching a certain point score before time runs 
 out. Slalom events are thankfully the least frequent  the lack of sharpness to the games controls 
 makes these events extremely frustrating, even from the outset.
  
  The game moves pretty naturally to match your growing comfort level with the new control scheme, 
 and if you hang in there long enough, youll eventually get to the more interesting races that 
 feature level design with grander scale and environmental disasters. The addictive nature of collecting 
 tokens and unlocking loads of new material also greatly extends Blurs value. However, whether 
 or not youre willing to stick it out for these positives probably depends on whether or not youre 
 already invested in the SSX series or not.
  
  Luckily, the presentation of the game picks up a bit of the slack for new recruits to the series. 
 The overall sense of speed is very pleasing; it really feels like youre zipping down the mountain 
 at an unsafe rate. The mountain itself, as well as the riders, have a vivid and cartoon-like appearance, 
 which fits the Wii nicely. Animations are appropriately exaggerated and look great, and some light 
 blur effects help sell the sense of speed. However, much of this material is held over from previous 
 installments of the series. Also, the visuals dont seem to be gussied up for their appearance 
 on Nintendos system  the 480p support does little to iron out the noticeable jagged edges on 
 the environment.
  
  The audio is probably SSX Blurs greatest achievement, which is expected for the series. The soundtracks 
 fusion of pop punk and funk tunes is as appealing as it has ever been for the series, and as usual, 
 it changes through context as you play the game. If you launch off a jump, for instance, the music 
 will fade out and cut the lows as your rider is suspended in hang time, and fade back in as he 
 or she approaches the ground. This series trademark is still fresh today. Sound effects for board-on-snow 
 or ice also sounds great, and transitions between surfaces sound natural. The only real downside 
 is the faux-hip host of the radio station, who spouts of tons of idiotic and embarrassing phrases 
 with a pathetic hipster attitude. It sounds like one of EAs marketing guys wanted to play around 
 on the mic for a while, and they used it in the game.
  
  In the end, SSX Blur is a good game hidden beneath some noticeable and hard to overcome blemishes. 
 Series veterans will appreciate the new way to control the familiar SSX formula; but with its lack 
 of polish, newcomers may find themselves worrying how this series became so popular in the first 
 place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GigaBowserJr14
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 18, 2007 4:39 am PT
Review:  When EA said they would put effort (and descent games) in to the Wii, I didn't believe them. But 
 they showed me how wrong I was. The game is split into four main modes. The first is career, this 
 where you unlock all the courses, characters, skis/boards and stats. Then there is quick play where 
 you us your unlocked characters and courses to have a short race. There is a tutorial which shows 
 you how to play the game and there is a multiplayer mode which you can play two player split screen 
 or do hotseat play. There are five different game modes. Race, slalom, half pipe, big air and a 
 high score race. The controls work fine except for the uber tricks which can be near impossible 
 to pull off but that aside the game works perfectly and it shows that games like this can be done 
 with the Wiimote rather than button mashing. The graphics are beautiful; the powdery snow looks 
 very realistic with great sunlight and firework effects. The sound is spectacular. There is a few 
 songs that are randomly picked and you can't order them or see what they are, but as your going 
 down a course the volume and bass of the music is affected by how well you are doing. The value 
 of the game is great also if you want to fill every characters stats and get all there boards/skis 
 which will take some time to do. Great game from EA lets just hope they keep this quality up on 
 the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shireen44
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 18, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  dont listen to the average reviews for this game, it has all the best parts of previous tricky 
 games and the brilliant slalom events that provide a true challenge for gamers who want to be tested 
 (nintendo is not just for kids) . The controls become very instinctive after 30 minutes of play 
 you just need to keep practising! The framerate is superb and the visuals are what you would expect 
 for a ssx blur game but sharper and smoother. The multiplayer is fantastic too, perfect for causing 
 massive arguements, what more could you want. The soundtrack as you would expect is solid to, the 
 commentator is nowhere near as annoying as previous blurs and the groove music helps you stay in 
 the right rythmn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thewwwyzzerdd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  I was a big fan of ssx trick on the gamecube, but i didnt really get to play any of the other installments 
 in the series. when i heard it was coming out i had mixed feelings... i was hoping it would be 
 good, but not really expecting anything spectacular. i played for a few hours, and then a few more, 
 and by the time a had the learning curve under control it was my favorite game, i went out and 
 bought it the next day. (i had it on gamefly) . im still really impressed with the controls. their 
 fairly simple, anyone could pick up the remote, and flail it around and land a couple tricks, but 
 despite the limited number of grabs there is still much depth to be had. the game has an excellent 
 look and sense of speed, and the courses are beautiful. there are so many insane jumps and rugged 
 terrain features (especially in peak 3) , that you'll find yourself playing the same couple of levels 
 over and over just checking out the various paths and how they cross. my only real gripes are lack 
 of 4 player gameplay, and i would have liked to see some more of the old characters like eddie. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Retman
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 17, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  Title: SSX Blur
  Out: Now (US, JPN, EUR)
  RRP: &pound;35.00
  Published by: Nintendo
  Developed by: EA Sports Big
  Genre: Extreme Sports
  Number of Players: 1-2
  
  Its funny, 
 no not the game, I said to myself The controls must not be that bad while i was looking at Reviews 
 for SSX Blur but I was wrong
  
  You start off with a choice of 5 characters  Mac, Elise, Moby, Felix and Kaori each character 
 has a set of stats a example would be one rider has the best air and speed but are terrible with 
 other stuff, like in Tony hawks, you can improve these with a new snowboard/skies. The first 5 
 Characters you have a pretty bad so dont go expecting to win every race just now each character 
 has 25 Snowboards and 25 Skies to unlock, Yes you heard me right 25! That is a lot of unlocking 
 and its all worth it. Nearly every set of skies or a snowboard can increase your power in one 
 stat e. g. Power or speed but they can also decrease a stat. There is 7 characters to unlock bring 
 the total up to 12 characters in all. What is wonderful on the Career is that Each Peak is a Free 
 play if you dont understand here what I mean: You dont simply choose a race from the main menu 
 you get you enjoy snowboarding and skiing around the peak, what to race? Then you go to a large 
 signboard for each race and you get there the race starts. This lets you get a feel of SSX Blur 
 without even racing. While playing SSX Blur you can control the sound what ever you character does 
 the sound gets affected so take for example you fall  the sound goes all weird and stops until 
 you start back up, when your groove meter is full and you pulling tricks the music is up beat and 
 starts to get louder which is a great feature and adds fun to the game. On the main menu you get 
 the choice of: Multiplayer (2 player only) , Career, Quick play, Tutorial, options and finally Extras. 
 The Career has you playing 3 different peaks.
  
  At the start you only have 1 peak, which has different types of races to win, SSX Blur doesnt 
 follow a certain story, like most games, its just race, win and on to the next race which can be 
 sometimes very boring. To unlock new stuff to use you need to win each race, but you never know 
 if that race it going to give you a brand new character or just end up giving you nothing. There 
 are Art pieces that you can unlock and view at the Extras menu these are just little drawings, 
 which made SSX Blur it is today.
  
  Quick play lets you view all the types of stuff you can do  Half pipe, Slope Style, Slalom, Race 
 and Big air. Each doesnt count towards the career so you dont unlock stuff in the Quick Play 
 mode. Tutorial lets you learn how to control SSX Blur, here is a friendly warning  Complete the 
 Tutorials first to get a hang of the controls because you dont want to end up not knowing what 
 to do during the a race in the Career mode. In the Tutorial you learn: Carving, Brake/Accel, Jumps, 
 Rails, Spins/Flips, Snowballs, Uber Tricks, Groove System and Grabs. Options menu lets you play 
 around with the Sounds and tweak the movement in the nunchuck. If you are anything like me youll 
 be going back to that options a hell of a lot of times to get it perfect which can be annoying. 
 Luckily enough the Options menu can be accessed during the career so you dont need to quit the 
 career just to fix the nunchuck movement. By Nunchuck movement I mean how to carve (turn) you 
 can tweak it so you only turn by the motion sensors in the Nunchuck or you can only move by the 
 Analog stick or you can move using both  the world is you oyster. The graphics! SSX Blur is indeed 
 a lovely game  Snowboard games are always lovely to look at and SSX Blur is right up in rank 1 
 due to the amazing graphics. Your riding down on a lovely snow hill with a glance of the mountains 
 in the distance. The special effects that come off you Snowboard/Skies and the Fireworks, which 
 are set off when you go through a Gate. It is just a good sight to see when playing this game. 
 Okay maybe they are not Next-gen but oh my! They are the prettiest Ive seen on the Nintendo Wii. 
 Ok you got to this point and all things are fair in the land of SSX Blur but why does everyone 
 keep going on about the controls? This is why: Your carving you way down a hill with the sun shining 
 and the wind in your face all is good until you hit a little bumpyou start tumbling down the hill 
 shaking the wiimote and nunchuck to get up, or may not sound bad but sometimes SSX Blur doesnt 
 register you movements so often your in mid air trying to do a grab or spin but your character 
 just stand there in mind air it can be so frustrating at times. And I found myself forgetting the 
 controls often and not knowing how to do a simple movement. Like I said early on if you complete 
 the Tutorial you can get use to the controls and it can be surprising on how much enjoyment you 
 can get to out of it. On no! That is not all that is wrong with SSX Blur. Let me introduce the 
 most pointless, annoying, frustrating thing ever in the history of SSX games  Uber Tricks if 
 you have read many reviews you would have found out no one can pull off a Uber Trick Uber tricks 
 work by filling up your Groove System (by doing many tricks) when you hit part 3 (the Groove 
 bar is in separate pieces) your allowed to pull of a special trick which gets you drawing shapes 
 in the sky to pull off amazing tricks and grabs. These shapes can be Love hearts, the letter Z 
 etc. About 99.8% you will be able to pull off an Uber trick but its just so hard even when you 
 actually do draw the shape the game doesnt register your movement.
  
  Overall:
  
  SSX Blur can be frustrating at moments; dont let that put you off, sure the Uber tricks and controls 
 can be nightmare but stick with this game and you get a good enjoyable game which will make you 
 come back to it.
  
  Controls:
  
  Dodgy at times, steep learning curve. You do get a hang of them soon enough and when you do Carving 
 with the nunchuck can be so much fun.
  
  Graphics:
  
  In my mind this game pushs the Wii to perform these Jaw dropping graphics. Not Next-gen but clearly 
 one step ahead of last-gen graphics.
  
  Sound:
  
  A DJ talking most of the time about whats happened in SSX Blur, the option to control the music 
 is a added bonus most techno music.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  3 different Peaks, many different races in each peak, 25 unlockable Snowboards and Skies, 7 characters 
 to unlock, Artwork added in. Youll be at it for a while. It is very enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homesrfan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 16, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Blur is definitely a different type of SSX experience. From the beginning of the series, SSX has 
 been a revolutionary snowboarding series, and one of the best. And, although you can definitely 
 tell Blur is part of the franchise, the style and feeling of the game will begin to make you realize 
 that this isn't the SSX Tricky 2.
  
  One of the biggest disappointments of Blur was the fact that it used all recycled tracks. I feel 
 that the EA team might have been a bit lazy in this category. But, as you start to play Blur, you 
 realize that it doesn't feel exactly as you played it earlier. The most obvious change are the 
 controls.
  
  The controls in Blur are very intuitive and unique. The player must tilt the nunchuck and use the 
 analog stick in order to carve or, essentially, turn in the game. You can jump with either a flip 
 of the nunchuck, or a press of the A button. In order to knock over opponents in Blur, press the 
 B button and swing the wiimote. Z is turbo. That basically takes care of the 'on the ground' controls. 
 The carving works very nicely, but I do have some gripes about the snowball throwing. Now comes 
 the 'in-the-air'. One of the most intuitive controls is the new way to do ubertricks. In order 
 to uberticks, you must essentially draw, or make a shape with the wiimote and/or nunchuck while 
 holding the A button. You collect ubertrick collectibles throughout the game in order to unlock 
 new ones. Lately, I have been seeing a lot of people complaining about the controls, specifically 
 the ubertricks. But in reality, they are very intuitive, but take practice. Do NOT get frustrated 
 with this game. The controls are actually very nicely done.
  
  The graphics in this game are a change of pace for the game, also. There is a noticeably a more 
 cartoony atmosphere. The characters have changed dramatically in a totally different art style, 
 but the game really just falls down the same path On Tour in this category. Blur takes the chance 
 of a whole new art style, this time with the characters, and you can't really take them seriously. 
 But overall, the graphics are very nice and an impressive upgrade from the previous games.
  
  There are different modes, including a new one called 'slalom'. Slalom is probably the most 
 frustrating part of the game and I find myself switching over to the classic nunchuck-style carving 
 for this event. There are also slopestyle, big air, race, and tournaments, which include a mixture 
 of events. There are also a variety of challenges playable in the free-ride mode. The events vary 
 in difficulty from incredibly easy, to almost impossibly hard. I personally don't care for some 
 of the challenges and find them somewhat annoying when they are incredibly hard.
  
  I was really disappointed with the fact that there are almost no voices in the game. The only thing 
 I have ever heard my character say is 'WOAAHH' when they are about to fall off a rail. But, on 
 the other hand, the music really makes up for the voices, or lack of. The music in the game is 
 dynamic according to the 'groove meter' which increases as you go faster, and do tricks, but also 
 decreases as you use your turbo, wipe out, or run into obstacles. The music in the game is provided 
 by Junkie XL and he did a nice job with it. Also, I was very happy to see DJ Atomika back in the 
 game along with Radio BIG which made it's appearance in SSX 3.
  
  So, overall, Blur is a cool addition to the series in it's own way, but ultimately could have been 
 better if they used the new controls and graphics, but also had things from the old series such 
 as the voice acting.
  
  If you are a fan of the series, or just looking for a new game to bring life to the Wii that is 
 now growing cobwebs, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eespo93
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  This game was very fun. In the beginning, you have no idea what you are doing but you have to do 
 the tutorial. The controls are like the controls of guitar hero. At first, it seems impossible, 
 but after a while, it becomes a second instinct. It is worth playing though... This game is fun 
 to have if you are having a party and have some friends come over to all play. But in singleplayer, 
 it is like been there done that... It is one of those games that you get very frustrated after 
 a while trying to beat the same race or challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dualmask
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 14, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  SSX Blur Review
  
  I went out and got SSX Blur for the Wii because Gamespot gave the game a fairly favorable review 
 and I'm a big fan of the series. I didn't really follow the game's development, but I came to learn 
 that this game is a remixed version of the excellent SSX 3, one of my all time favorite games, 
 with Wii motion controls. I admit I was skeptical about that, and now that I have spent some time 
 with the game, I have mixed feelings about it.
  
  The good news is the graphics are pretty good, although I'm not a big fan of the more cartoonish 
 style of the characters. The gameplay, after some time spent in the tutorials, is pure SSX, which 
 means it's fast and furious snowboarding fun.
  
  The bad news is the game, when compared to the original, seems horrifically simplified in many 
 ways. The first thing I noticed was how quiet everything was. From the very beginning with the 
 much more subtle EA Sports BIG announcement, everything about the game seems toned down. And then, 
 when the game started, I didn't hear a thing outside of some relatively calm music. None of the 
 characters have voices anymore. Elise has always been my favorite character in the series -- I like 
 blondes, what can I say. But she loses a lot of that great, fierce personality I've always liked 
 about her when she, along with every other character in the game save the DJ -- is completely silent.
 
  
  The music is completely redone, because the developers wanted to have the music affect the gameplay 
 (the better you are doing, the more upbeat the music) . It's a nice effect, but I miss the original 
 SSX 3 music tracks.
  
  All the SSX 3 tracks are intact, and the new gameplay features such as the groove meter and the 
 ubertrick controls are nice additions. But the silence -- it's things like this that give Nintendo-haters 
 ammo to attack their products. This is a perfect example of a once epic game simplified... Nintendofied 
 .
  
  That said, I would probably appreciate this game a lot more if I'd never played SSX 3 (or any other 
 game in the series) . On it's own, it's an excellent snowboarding game. Getting into the groove 
 and whirling the Wii Remote and Nunchuck around to do tricks is tremendous fun (although until 
 I get it right, I'm going to have some sore wrists...) .
  
  It is what it is, SSX 3 with Wii controls, different music and no voices. You've got the whole 
 mountain you can freeride, and the tracks are familiar and still just as fun as they were in SSX 
 3. Understand that, and make your decision. Do I regret buying it? Not really... it just takes a 
 lot of getting used to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgres077
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 14, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw trailers for SSX Blur, I immediately knew I had to get my hands on a Nintendo 
 Wii. SSX Blur looked far different than any other game of its type (Tony Hawk, SSX, 1080, etc) . 
 Instead of just sitting down and smashing buttons in this type of game we are now given a whole 
 unique and highly addicting gameplay style that will keep you twisting and turning your nunchuck/remote 
 for hours at a time.
  
  I love SSX Blur's controls. Instead of just holding Triangle for grinds, Circle for grabs, and 
 then holding various direction combinations for different tricks you actually feel like you're 
 into the game with the Wii's controls. This game utilizes both the wiimote and nunchuck attachment. 
 To control your player you use the nunchuck for steering and carving, and the wiimote for the tricks. 
 In Gamespot's review of this game they make you believe that the controls are broken and don't 
 function properly however given enough time the controls become natural and work flawlessly. Just 
 goes to show that the Gamespot reviewers are lazy and don't like Wii games because they don't want 
 to play standing up.
  
  In SSX Blur you are exposed to three different peaks, each progressively harder than the last. 
 On each peak there are five events for you to conquer, as well as roughly 10-12 tournaments to 
 beat. Each peak has a different feel and style, giving you a different experience as you advance 
 to the second and third peaks. The tournaments are all basically the same, but with different formats. 
 The formats for the competitions in the tournament include Half Pipe, Slopestyle, Race, Slalom, 
 and so on. SSX Blur as has a slew of unlockables including characters, new ubertricks, snowboards, 
 and skiis. With each new character you unlock you can build up that characters stats and abilities, 
 similar to the stat upgrading system featured in the Tony Hawk series.
  
  The only thing I am disappointed with this game is the lack of songs included in the game. After 
 you play for more than five hours you get bored of hearing the same songs and the same announcements 
 from the DJ. At times I wish the DJ hadn't been included at all. However, maybe that's just part 
 of the SSX experience, after all this is my first dabble into the SSX series.
  
  SSX Blur is far better than Gamespot's review makes it out to be. Given you spend enough time playing 
 this game the ubertricks that are broken, impossible, flawed, ect will become second nature. For 
 me after only two or three hours of gameplay I was pulling off the different ubertricks with ease. 
 If you purchase this game and at first don't like the experience, have a little patience to allow 
 yourself to get adjusted to the controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boni
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  this game is actually pretty cool it does deserve higher than a 7.4 it has nice sound the graphics 
 are good and its replayable.
  its also fun for the non ssx fans the controls are pretty repettitive some times but mostly better 
 at the times.
  even if this didnt turn out the best ssx i thinks its still very good to play.
  you will have 
 so much fun and i think you wont be disappointed so go and get it if you dont already have it...... im 
 not kidding ...... ... ... ... .... .. ....
  The best thing might be the sound just to let you know (atleats thats what i think) so go and get 
 it now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroidprime_1
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 22, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  SSX is a snowboarding game that is all about getting huge air, and pulling off massive combos in 
 the air both on, and off the board. The series first came out on the PS2 and has made a number 
 of sequels. Now with the Wii and its new controller, the SSX series has brought its snow and mountains 
 to this new system. For Gameplay its very bad. It took me about an hour in the tutorials to get 
 the controls. It was very difficult to pull off tricks and did not bring the amazing uber tricks 
 from SSX Tricky and 3 into the game. You basically pulled the same tricks over and over and nothing 
 special. The camera angle is the same right over the shoulder and is fine. Also right off the bat 
 the game throws you into the races with no story or nothing at all. Graphics in the game though 
 are the best SSX has to offer. They added a great touch how when your rider falls down into the 
 snow, he/she gathers the snow on his clothes and it gradually goes away once you get up and start 
 riding again. The mountains, sky, snow, trees and everything else in this game looks crisp and 
 beautiful. Makes you feel like you are really in the mountains with its freshness and colors. Whats 
 bad is how the SSX characters look cartooned and Nintendofide.
  
  The Music in the game is great. Its far better than most of the games today with licensed soundtracks. 
 Maybe because this game does not have a licensed soundtrack and flows with the game and courses 
 you play. Its way better than the On tour soundtrack and falls just short of the SSX Tricky music. 
 Also its cool to hear the DJ of the SSX riders update you on whats going on while you are snowboarding 
 to the races and events. If you have played most of the SSX games and love the series (and if you 
 also have a Wii) you have to try this game. Other than that I say rent it and see if you like it. 
 It really is a fun game but, doesnt give you that urge to keep going. If you get the controls 
 it makes the game better but may take time to master. If another SSX game is going to be released 
 on the Wii it needs to have better controls, the characters need their snowboarder look back 
 and the insane uber tricks need to be there. All in all a good game for the Wii and should be at 
 least checked out by most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 3.6
Date: Mar 8, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  frist big pain about blur is the controlls. i played the game for about 1 hr and the controlls 
 of the game comes to the point the game is just boring. makes me wonder why a company puts the 
 game out for sell. if up to me no way could of been a fun game if the controlls would of been worked 
 on. makes me feel the game was rushed. after all the wii dont have a whole line of great games 
 lined up at this point. but it dont help to put out a half done game. i am ready to ship it back 
 to gamefly. so rent the game frist if you are a die hard game player that must master alll games 
 then its for you. i am the type i want to jump in and go and have fun. anything that takes over 
 30 minns to get the controlls down will be shiped back to gamefly . to me thats not fun just a 
 chore thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MobySSX
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 7, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  I had not seen a release date yet, so when I happened by this game on the shelves my immediate 
 reaction was Why so soon? Why indeed...
  
  I wouldn't have complained if they had pushed the release date back long enough for them to acquire 
 the original set of voice actors... or rather ANY voice actors. The biggest difference this game 
 has from other SSX games (besides the console) is the fact that the characters do not say anything 
 at all. The new character models were a bit disappointing to me as well, especially the fact that 
 more than half of them only have a potential TWO full costumes... that's right, no more shops where 
 you can buy pants/gloves/boards etc. You just earn another texture for each character as the game 
 progresses, which is incovenient at best for some characters since they have awful fashion sense 
 (Yes, Allegra I'm pointing your way.) The new three peaks, while they are reskinned and look better, 
 offer less tracks than the ones from SSX 3, while some of the tracks serve multiple purposes (Happiness, 
 for example is both a race and slopestyle event.) Finally, the new control scheme is fun to use 
 in some situations, but when it somes to tricks, things get a little frustrating. Often times your 
 character will refuse to flip when you tell it to, later deciding to do it when they are 4 meters 
 from the ground. Also, I could have done without the new Uber Shape feature. The game chooses which 
 Ubertrick you will do at random each jump, and there is a lack of responsiveness that makes some 
 Ubertricks extremely difficult and others hopeless. Even one of the beginning ones is so complex 
 that I've only been able to activate it one out of ten times.
  
  Aside from.. a few flaws, the newest installation brings a lot of what SSX players love back, including 
 a lot of the best tracks from SSX 3 and SSX On Tour and good multiplayer. Unfortunately, my opinion 
 is that SSX games have gone downhill from SSX Tricky. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plumjoose
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 7, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  The game is very fun, and I don't see any problems in the control. If you can't control well and 
 you have problems, then practice. The game is created a certain way, learn the game, don't make 
 the game learn how you want to play or else your going to complain.
  
  The Problems? The interface is very simple, and their isn't much to do in the game. The skiing 
 courses could use better design. Don't worry, it's worth the money.
  
  The Pros? It's so fun, and the control's really contribute to that. I couldn't give a hog nut about 
 snowboarding, but the Wii changes all of that. Ubertricks are perfectly fine, but if you aren't 
 smart like me you won't be able to figure that out. haha, sorry folks.
  
  Ubertrick tips:
  
  1.) You know when your on the main screen and you move the cursor around 
 with the wiimote to point at things? Well, memorize the vertical and horizontal diameter right 
 in front of you (the literal distance where you move your wiimote across your playing field) , so 
 that it corresponds with the horizontal and vertical diameter of your television. Note: If you 
 move your hands outsize of this zone with your wiimote and nunchaku, your ubertrick won't work. 
 2.) Make sure when your going down a course, that your wiimote and nunchaku are where they need 
 to be on the screen before you begin your ubertrick (For example: You are given the Z shape ubertrick. 
 Pretend the Z corresponds with the area of the whole television screen where you need to point 
 your wiimote. Looking at the shape of the letter Z, it starts on the top left, so point your wiimote 
 on the top left of the screen (corresponding with the literal distance to the upper left in your 
 literal playing field that corresponds with the upper left part of the television) , press A, follow 
 the shape of the Z on your screen, and when you reach the end of the letter Z on the bottom right 
 of your screen, you release the A button) . Do this with all of your ubertricks. The game is great, 
 it's not the game's fault it got lower ratings that it should, it's not the games fault some people 
 suck at video games. PRACTICE.
  
  The game isn't perfect, but in fact, the control is far better than other aspects of the game, 
 which lacks, err, depth.
  
  8.4 seems about right.
  
  BUY IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: okl
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 7, 2007 4:48 am PT
Review:  Each time they make a SSX game the add something and lose something and I have been a staunch supporter 
 of the series since the first. This time instead of losing the personality in on tour it gained 
 garish cartoony characters and the jankiest WII control set yet. Half the time i played the game, 
 even with the sensitivity set to the highest (only the chuck mind you) I could not spin or flip 
 on time and in some times i would pull it off when I wasn't trying to do that. Don't even try doing 
 an Ubertrick. Thats why the wrist band is there. Out of 20 something attempts I pulled off one 
 and nearly knocked out my girl who was near by. The most amazing part is like most of the SSX games, 
 even with all the issues with control I still couldn't put it down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazypete36
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 6, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  pretty good i gotta say. Although it indeed has its frustrating moments especially with the Uber 
 tricks. The races are fun and the game is hard. If you wanted a pretty solid game for the Wii pick 
 this one up. Hey at least this isn't a kiddy game and it's actually fun to play. It's about time 
 that they released a decent game for the Wii. Now let's see what other games except the highly 
 anticipated games like SSB or Mario Galaxy are worth the wait for. The next games i'm looking forward 
 to are Mario Party 8, Super Paper Mario, and the new Fire Emblem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeromeerome
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 5, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  As you can tell from past reviews I am a hardcore SSX veteran from the original title at the PS2 
 launch. The series has made some big changes over the years. Many for the better. Some for the 
 worse. While I felt the previous title On Tour was a poor attempt to morph SSX into a Tony Hawk 
 and Amped wannabe... thankfully EA has slightly redeemed themselves by returning back to the roots 
 of what makes SSX great. Big air and over the top tricks.
  
  Lets start with the positive aspects of this game. The graphics are absolutely beautiful with little 
 details like the sparkle of the snow in the sun and the smooth character animations. The level 
 design has returned to the three peak design introduced in SSX 3. While you will find a few familiar 
 elements on Peak 1 that lend the feeling of returning to Tricky's level design they are subtle 
 but much welcomed additions. No over the top, arcade style levels like the pinball machine unfortunately. 
 Peaks 2 and 3 are purely the style found in SSX 3. The controls are a blessing and a curse. The 
 carving left and right with the nunchuck is very intuitive and engaging. It also allows for very 
 precise control of your rider on the slopes. Grabs are done with the Z button on the nunchuck and 
 also work very well. The remote is great for flipping and spinning once in the air.
  
  Now for the negative aspects of this game. While the remote does flipping and spinning well it 
 can be downright frustrating to perform ubertricks in the air. The system seems to be most accurate 
 when you hold the remote perpendicular to the screen and move your entire arm and elbow as you 
 draw the necessary shapes. In theory this is a good idea. In reality you will find in the heat 
 of the game as you frantically try to rack up a big enough combo in the half pipe to finish first 
 that you are uncontrollably flailing your arms in ways that the controller doesn't recognize. Even 
 though you feel as though you are correctly performing the shapes. This is extremely frustrating 
 and will probably cause you to throw down your controller several times and quit. In my case I 
 even swore the game off completely a time or two as I dusted off SSX 3 on the PS2.
  
  Ultimately with enough time and patience you will reach a point where the ubertrick controls just 
 click with you. I found myself keep coming back to Blur so as not to be defeated by the control 
 schemes. The amount of time to master the controls will vary from person to person but for me it 
 was about 5 hours before I could consistently hit the ubers as I wanted. Once you reach this stage 
 of control the game really opens up to you and becomes much more enjoyable. You will start to breeze 
 through tournaments and unlock all the peaks in no time.
  
  All in all this game is a step in the right direction for the SSX series to continue growing. Its 
 not perfect but it is fun with enough time and practice. I recommend it to all fans of the series 
 and anyone looking for a challenge.
  
  Some minor personal gripes I do have with the game. These don't necessarily detract from the overall 
 playability of the game. These are simply elements that were in previous SSX games that are inexplicably 
 absent from this title. The characters have no personalities. By this I mean in Tricky everyone 
 used to dance around and do their thing and say their catch phrases as you selected them. Now they 
 just look at you. When your on the slopes there used to be cinematic between events and each round 
 as they talked junk to each other. Especially if you beat them up bad in the previous round. Now 
 you have the ability to throw snowballs at them to knock them over but they just fall down. Nothing 
 is ever said. The ability to customize your character is also gone. No more saving up cash to buy 
 new gear. You simply get what you are given.
  
  Acquiring new ubertricks has been turned into a ridiculous scavenger hunt for icons scattered about 
 the mountains. This isn't a huge problem on peak 1 but by the time you reach peak 3 and can hardly 
 see in the non stop blizzard it seems unnecessary. What ever happened to unlocking new ubers as 
 you increased your skill set on the slopes. If you broke a new record or one a tournament you should 
 get new ubers. Or even offer the ability to buy new ones as you earn cash or something. Just don't 
 make me hunt all over the place for that 20th icon of the 19 I have found so far. Thats just stupid.
 
  
  The music in this game is done completely by JunkieXL. Dont get me wrong. This guy has a lot of 
 good beats and the game continues to mix things up in real time depending on your performance on 
 the slopes. However I can't help missing the playlist aspects of SSX3 where you could select songs 
 from several genres of major artists and play them on demand using your ipod like device. Blur 
 just seems like a step backwards for all of this.
  
  Finally I will always consider Tricky to be the best of the series simply because of its over the 
 top level designs. Couldn't EA incorporate some of these levels back into certain sections of the 
 mountains. It could be as simple as only offering them in showoff events if necessary and keep 
 races and slaloms to the natural design. What do you guys think about all this? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dangor
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 5, 2007 12:08 am PT
Review:  Ever since I took up snowboarding recently, I had the urge to play a snowboarding game, but the 
 urge wasn't appeased until SSX Blur came out. When I purchased the game, I was expecting only the 
 over-the-top gameplay that I had come to expect from playing SSX Tricky back in the day. However, 
 when I started playing, I was pleasantly surprised at the amount of effort that was placed into 
 making playing SSX Blur into an immersive experience.
  
  The first that I noticed was the graphics. And it seems that many people agree that the graphics 
 are well done, especially for the Wii. I love to freeride down the slopes so that I can enjoy the 
 scenery and pretend that I'm actually boarding down a world-class mountain. The falling snow is 
 perfect, and even produces white-out conditions on one of the expert tracks. The powder snow that 
 flies from the board when you do an abrupt stop only adds to the immersion. The sun also produces 
 a glare that blinds you when your rider gets big air in front of it, producing some epic imagery. 
 The best graphical enhancement made to the game is the blur effect when boosting down the terrain 
 or grabbing huge air. The only thing I'd complain about is the attempt at making the snow shiny, 
 where we see twinkling yellow stars that make it look like there's gold dust that was scattered 
 on the track.
  
  Next was the music. While carving down the slopes, the beat track produces a unique experience 
 where it feels like you're playing through one of those snowboarding promotion videos. The best 
 part of the music is that the better you do, the better the music becomes. That is, as your Uber 
 Meter fills up, more music tracks get added to the song that gets played, like extra drum tracks, 
 and sometimes vocals. This makes it so easy to get in the mood/groove when you're pulling out insane 
 tricks, and even adds motivation to keep your Uber meter maxed out.
  
  Another really cool thing about this game is that you can SKI! The controls are the same, but the 
 tricks sometimes may even look cooler because you have 2 skis and 2 poles flying about in a coordinated 
 fashion. It sort of, kind of, makes me want to take up skiing again.
  
  The basic controls are easy to pick up. It makes it so easy to pull out Rodeos, McTwists, and tricks 
 that are 10x crazier. Of course, there is that common issue of Ubertricks. At first, I wasn't able 
 to get them, but conveniently, SSX Blur allows you to practice any unlocked Ubertricks from the 
 in-game menu. This is where you start experimenting with different types of movements: small fast 
 movements, or big slow exaggerated movements may be best for you; try anything. Too bad the game 
 doesn't straight out tell people that the Ubertrick you perform doesn't have to match the one that 
 is displayed while in the air. All you have to do is get good with one or two (my favourite are 
 the left-double-loop-right and sideways figure 8 designs) and use them all the time, in combination 
 with spins and flips. Eventually, you can start getting scores upward of 2 million.
  
  The game isn't too hard to get practiced at. The difficult parts may be the Ubertrick drawing and 
 the slalom events. The reason why slalom events were so difficult was because it's pretty much 
 sink or swim when you start the event. The game gives you no tips on it and you are expected to 
 just know the technique behind getting all the flags. At first, I sucked. I pretty much flew past 
 half the flags and got times that were close to 5 minutes. Afterwards, learning all the tricks 
 of slowing down, changing the controller scheme if necessary, and taking my time, I finally can 
 do every slalom track pretty well, if not perfectly. So if Ubertricks and the slalom events are 
 becoming frustrating, just go online to some forums or guides and learn a thing or two from people 
 who have already mastered them, and you'll be doing them both perfectly in no time.
  
  The main thing that I'm rather disappointed on is the single-player replay value. There are only 
 3 peaks (although they are extremely huge) and only a few things to unlock. After beating career 
 mode, the only things left to do are to get platinum medals on everything, and unlock the Yeti 
 costume, which both can become quite tedious. The fun will lie in the multiplayer, since I have 
 my roommates playing the game passionately as well. But until I get another Nunchuk, I'll have 
 to settle with the Quickplay and Career modes that are already getting old.
  
  To end on a brighter note, if I ever stress out on exams or work, I'll gladly relax by starting 
 up the game and immerse myself in snowboarding goodness as I freeride down the beautifully done 
 slopes of the SSX Blur world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00KevinMZ
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  I had heard a lot of negative reviews about ssx blur before I bought it, but being a fan of the 
 series I decided to give ssx the benefit of the doubt when I bought it. So far it has not disappointed 
 me. I wisely spent about 15 minutes in the tutorial before hitting the slopes, and I feel the beginning 
 controls work nicely. The motion sensing turning using the nunchuck controller worked well at the 
 outset, and I won some races and big air competitions and I felt really about the game. However 
 when I tried my first slalom competition it changed a little bit. I'm not sure if the flags are 
 just too close together or something because the slaloms are extremely difficult, especially with 
 the motion sensing, it was very hard to execute a sharp turn quickly enough to hit the gate. That's 
 why I was thankful that you can customize the turning controls however you want, and I opted to 
 eliminate the motion sensing all together. I thought it was fun with it, but it hurt my wrist, 
 and I didn't think it added that much to the gameplay. The tricks with the wii remote work excellent 
 in my opinion, more so than mashing a couple buttons together. Overall I say the wii controls add 
 to the game, but I might say otherwise were I not able to customize them. Like all ssx games, in 
 ssx blur you start out with relatively easy races and events, and work your way up to harder ones 
 to unlock a lot of stuff. Only in this particular installment it got a lot harder, mainly because 
 of the difficulty of the slalom races. I think the game may have screwed up there because I believe 
 the gates are too close together. (slow and steady wins the race) . Also in some of the later trick 
 competitions it became evident i needed to use uber tricks to boost my score high enough to win. 
 To execute an uber trick you have to hold the a button, and copy a little pattern that appears 
 on the screen. The only problem is these patterns are frustratingly difficult to copy since not 
 only are they confusing, but the sensor is not always as accurate in picking up the motions as 
 I'd have liked. However the game seemed to realize that and has an uber trick practice option in 
 the menue where I tried all the patterns long enough until I could almost get it to work on every 
 try. The graphics in ssx blur are nice, not as good comparatively as ssx 3 was to the gamecube, 
 but I still think it was a good effort on EA's part. The artsy feel, though not what i prefer, 
 from an unbiased standpoint fit the game really nice. The sound is good as always, but not as good 
 as past ssx games, but that just compliments the quality of the sound from past ssx games. Overall 
 SSX blur is a great game to play if you are willing to be frustrated often, but the reward for 
 finally winning the tournament is greater in this SSX, than in any other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bambitheking
Rating: 4.1
Date: Mar 4, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is horrible for one, simple, reason. The controls. All the controls in this game are 
 absolutely horrible. This game makes you want to take you wiimote and break it over someones head. 
 It's almost like EA BIG wants to teach people to have more sportsmanship by forcing them to lose 
 with bad controlls. For instance. To stop doing your flips and spins, you have to tap a or b. That 
 makes no sence. You should have to spin useing the analog and stop when you stop pushing it. Then 
 theirs turning, which is horrible. I had to turn off turning with the nunchuk to turn with the 
 analog because the nunchuk didn't work at all, I would just go in a striaght line and bounce off 
 trees. That leads to the second thing wrong with this game. Barely hit anything and you fall down 
 and have to flail the wiimote just to get in. It feels like the wii controls are forced on you, 
 and you have to use them in the game, and if you turn them off, it's just like every other SSXgame 
 out their. I personally do not like this game. Go play SSX tricky or SSX 3, but not this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hebes
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  I got SSX Tricky for the Gamecube a couple of years back. From the first time I played the game 
 it was one of my favorites, and still is. When I heard that there was a new SSX game coming out 
 exclusively for the Wii, I was really looking forward to it. Before I got it, I naturally looked 
 at Gamespot's review. I was slightly disappointed when I read it. But My personal experiences with 
 games had differed with Gamespot's before, so I still got it. Besides, it's an SSX game, they've 
 always been good.
  
  When I played it, I first tried out the tutorials, and I have to admit, the controls were challenging, 
 and some of the tutorials themselves were not very good. After a while of doing some Quickplay 
 and some of career mode, I started getting used to it. That was when the game got really fun. Then 
 I looked at the Review again. There were alot of things that they said that I completely disagree 
 with, and most of the things under the the Bad section have not been that big of an issue. For 
 Example:
  
  1.) Ubertrick Controls Are Inconsistent.
  
  No, they're not. I have to admit, there are times where you can't seem to make any Ubertricks work, 
 but you have to understand that these are the hardest tricks in the game and absolutely impossible 
 to do in real life (not that this game is about realism, though) . The reason why they seem to be 
 inconsistent is because EA did not put in alot of breathing room in the motions. You have to be 
 pretty precise to get them to work, but once you do, they are monster tricks that can get you 75,000+ 
 points. Also, you do not use the controller like a pointer, the whole controller has to move for 
 the trick to work consistently. My experience with Ubertricks has been good. For example, I just 
 did a Halfpipe run where I must have done at least 10 Ubertricks, if not 15. If you want to practice 
 making Ubertricks, Halfpipe runs are the best place to do it. You can get alot of height on those 
 runs, which gives you plenty of time to make the shape, and land the trick.
  
  2.) Slalom Events Can Be Frustrating
  
  This is one I think everyone can agree with. These 
 are the hardest events in the game, without a doubt. The key is to go slow, and try to get as many 
 gates as possible. If you do that, the results will come.
  
  3.) Animation issues.
  
  I don't see any issues, other than If you get stuck in an object, in which case the game resets 
 your character instantly.
  
  4.) Frame-rate issues.
  
  Again, I don't know what they're talking about. Maybe the occasional hitch, but it is very infrequent 
 and barely noticeable.
  
  I was also kind of put off by this part of the review:
  
  Once in the air, you move the Wii Remote in any direction, and your character will respond with 
 a variety of flips and spins that at first feels like a revelation. But after a while, it begins 
 to feel more than a bit random. Sooner or later, you stop caring about the exact trick you're pulling 
 off and begin moving the remote around in a random fashion, watching your character pull off increasingly 
 bizarre strings of moves that often seem disconnected from the controller. 
  
  The tricks to me do not feel disconnected at all. The trick you perform definitely corresponds 
 to the direction you tilt the remote. Don't just fling it around aimlessly (which they were probably 
 doing) , if you do that, your character will do bizarre and random tricks.
  
  I personally don't agree with those things that Gamespot said. And Overall, it's a very good game. 
 The controls are solid, though they take some getting used to. The graphics look great. The cartoony 
 aspect of the characters really suits the Wii and the game. The sound is awesome, the funky style 
 of music again fits the game perfectly and is the same type of music as most of the other games 
 in the series.
  
  As far as Gameplay goes, my favorite modes have to be Slopestyle, and Halfpipe. These modes are 
 all about going out and doing the best tricks out there. Big Air is also nice, having you try to 
 get the most points in only about 3-4 jumps. Racing is a classic, and a nice mode for both speed, 
 and tricks. But if you want to test your carving skills, (and your patience) Slalom is a very challenging 
 mode that is very hard to endure.
  
  SSX Blur is another great entry into the SSX series. The controls can be trying, but once you get 
 used to it, it is definitely one of the best Games for the Wii yet. Don't believe any of the bad 
 reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodyDagger
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 4, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this game, I couldn't believe how well EA made it for the Wii. I find that 
 this game is better on the Wii than any other of the SSX games are on the other consoles.
  
  Gameplay: In the gameplay department, the game is fun and the controls are responsive when 
 they want to be. The mountain is bigger and there is alot more stuff to do. The Uber tricks are 
 usually a pain in the a** the pull off, but thats the point, they wouldn't be called Uber Tricks 
 if they were easy to do.
  
  Graphics: In this game the mountain looks more amazing than ever showing the potential of the Wii's 
 graphic system. The same can't be said about the way the characters look. The characters look really 
 weird due to the fact that they look more cartoony than the game actually is.
  
  Sound: Well, the sound and voice overs are pretty much the same as any other SSX game wich is still 
 pretty good, nuff said. Overall: This is a well made game with some gameplay and graphic advances 
 over the older SSX games. Any one who is an SSX fan should get this game, unless you don't have 
 a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dillmaster5
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 4, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  I'm not too sure what gamespot's talking about, because the controls are about the most innovative 
 I've seen on the Wii yet, besides madden 07.
  I reccomend you rent it first and play it at lest for an hour, because for most people, the controls 
 will take about 30-45 mins. to get the controls down, but once you do get the controls, the game 
 is almost two times better. Altough, some people don't get the controls right away, so remember 
 to rent it first.
  
  P. S. IMPORTANT!!!, almost everything in the TUTORIALS are two times HARDER, so the ACTUAL GAME 
 IS EASIER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmashAndRun
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 3, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  To many people diss this game before they even play a good hour of it. They just aren't used to 
 the controls. To tell you the truth, I absolutely hated this game for about a half hour or so, 
 then I got the hang of the controls. Now I absolutely love this game.
  
  The controls are pretty great actually. To do a grab trick you hold Z and tilt the nunchuk one 
 of four ways while in the air. To flip you flick the remote up for a back flip or down for a front 
 flip. And to spin you flick the remote left to spin left or right to spin right. To make the most 
 of those tricks you should combine them together for some amazing tricks. To jump you flick the 
 nunchuk up or press A. Personally, I prefer the A button. It's more precise. Ubertricks are the 
 hardest tricks to pull of in the game. You have to draw shapes with the remote by holding A and 
 then releasing A when you finish drawing. It takes a while to get the hang of this. The nunchuk 
 is used to turn and the control stick is used to turn harder while turning. You can also throw 
 snowballs by holding B and moving the remote in a throwing motion to knock other players down or 
 to retrieve tokens that get you new ubertricks. So thats about it for the controls. Onto the gameplay!
 
  
  The game is very enjoyable after you get the controls down. You can freeride down three different 
 peaks to collect tokens or enjoy a nice ride down the mountains. You start the game of with Peak 
 1 and gain points to participate in tournaments and get new peaks, characters, boards, and skis. 
 There are three peaks in total. Each peak has its own assortment of events to particiapte in. There 
 are races, slaloms, freestyle, and a few others. Races are basic. You race against five other characters 
 and try to make it to the finish in first. Slaloms aren't to great. The gates are just way to close 
 together. The only way to get a decent grade is to go slow and steady. Freestyle is a trick competition. 
 Try to rack up the most points in order to score a decent position (1st, 2nd, etc.)
  
  The graphics are really good. They show that the Wii can definitely pull of some better graphics 
 then the gamecube. The music in this game is pretty sweet. You don't have the choice to make a 
 playlist like in SSX Tour but the choice of music is good and it gets better as you do better and 
 worse as you do worse while riding. Multi-player is nice. It's always great to pull of a nice uber 
 trick in front of your friend.
  
  If you like the SSX series you would love this game. But I must warn some people that this is no 
 Wii Sports snowboarding. It is challenging and takes a while to get the hang of it. But other then 
 that its pretty sweet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mov
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 3, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game eagerly for months now. On the day of the release the reviews 
 seemed to be split between mediocre due to the sloppy controls, or solid as a good new addition 
 to the series. After playing for an hour I was frustrated to say the least. I came to vent on the 
 forums, but instead of other people shunning the game the offered explanation.
  I went through more advanced tutorials again and saw that I could practice tracing the uber patterns 
 to see how it should feel. I found out I needed to slow down just a little bit and I could pull 
 them off with ease. After I mastered the slalom (which pissed me off the most) I could see the 
 game for what it is. I'm building stats now, and after understanding the controls, SSX Blur is 
 a very fun game. Some major reviewers are calling the controls crap, and complaining that the uber 
 tricks are random and near impossible to pull off. Gaming has been dumbed-down in recent years 
 to appeal to a more broader market. If you are a gamer you will agree with that at least. It is 
 good to see a game that requires a certain level of skill to play well come back into the gaming 
 market. The people writing these reviews are professional journalists, but to call them professional 
 gamers would be an insult to anyone who calls themselves a gamer. I trust reviews to help me make 
 smart purchases, but when reviewers are giving games bad scores based on how hard it was for them 
 and based on their inability to play it correctly, their judgment is seriously called into question. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranman1990
Rating: 5.4
Date: Mar 3, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  Graphics:8/10 - The graphics in this game show a little bit of what the wii has to offer , these 
 graphics are in your face and sand out with nice vibrant colours and backrounds of mountains. Character 
 desings are goin the other way with a nice looking cartoon style . The snow being a very big part 
 of the game looks great as when ur character lands face first in to the snow gets covered through 
 out the entire race . Gamplay: 5/10 As you can see with this score i was not impressed by the gamplay 
 in Blur . They should of put on the box in big bold letters IFYOU HAVE ANGER PROBLEMS DONT PLAY 
 . Thank god im not one of those people . Flailing your arms around feels embarassing especially 
 when people are watching you . The uber tricks are absolutly awful ( I havent been able to pull 
 one off ) . The way you have to flip and spin and then put a grab in that all at one time is frustrating 
 at most times . You would think they would put a H. U. D map to make it a less complicated then pressing 
 the menu button then to press map ... Sound:6/10 - Wheres the music that I wanna hear . I obviously 
 miss understood when gamespot gave the sound a 9 out of 10 thinking it would be actual bands playing 
 music . Like actual musicians . No its just a bunch of beats . Even though they are nice to listen 
 to . I want real bands to listen to . Value: 2/10 - Dont even rent it ,, i beg you to stay away 
 from this game im saving you $11 ( canada) or $6 depends on where you live and if you go to blockbuster 
 or not .. Be my guest to rent it but youll understand when you play it that im sayin this.
  
  Tilt: 6/10 - Im being lenient and giving blur this score .. the graphics are the only thing 
 keeping this game alive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davedanz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 3, 2007 12:07 am PT
Review:  Theres not much here to complain about. The learning curve is HUGE, but that to me is what makes 
 the game so good. It makes you learn how to pull stunts and gives the game a challenge. After you 
 have the Ubermoves down, the game opens up to be the best SSX in the series hands down. The audio 
 is amazing, the visuals are amazing. The gameplay is excelent after you earn it. The only flaw 
 I have realy found is the difficulty of the slalom events wich are next to impossible. Other than 
 that, the game gets 10s on everything. Dont waste you time with this game if you dont have the 
 patience to earn your wings. But if you feel like your up to a challenge this game is a must have. 
 BUY IT HARDCORE GAMERS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordSettra
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 2, 2007 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Now, I absolutely love SSX3. In fact it was one of my favorite games, and I played it even more 
 than I played Tricky. Not only was the game fun but the atmosphere of the mountain, the 3 peaks, 
 the characters, and just the story was great. SSX Blur has fun gameplay, and while it is difficult 
 to get used to I actually enjoy using the Wiimote and Nunchuck to control the characters. The Graphics 
 aren't bad, as in textures and sharpness. The new design I find to be terrible. None of the characters 
 look how they should or at least how the series has made them thus far. The sound is crisp, the 
 music isnt so great, DJ Atomika is back and I was happy at this, but the biggest flop of this game 
 is the characters have... well no character. None of them speak, they have no personality and besides 
 a bio, you wouldnt know anything about them besides their name, unless you have played previous 
 SSX games. There are parts of SSX3 mixed in being the DJ, the three peaks, and various others, 
 but it leaves out alot of what made SSX3 such a great game. When they decided to switch styles 
 completley from SSX3 to On Tour I was disappointed, but SSX Blur is basically On Tour with less 
 content. While I still enjoy the game play, this game does not live up to what I have percieved 
 the SSX series as for myself thus far. I am disappointed EA, truly Disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MKDragon007
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 2, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Blur is a game that takes great patience to understand. The mere thought of using the controls 
 make anyone's head burst (as some have clearly stated by giving the game poor votes because of 
 the controls. But the game itself goes beyond that, it make it feels more realistic like swinging 
 the wiimote to throw the snowballs, and pressing the buttons on the Nunchuck to basically move 
 the rider. At first I thought that having the Nunchuck do more than the Wiimote was weird, but 
 now I realize it was the right thing to do. The only two problems I have are ubertricks (which 
 aren't hard figures, it's just that you have to do them practically at 90% the same of the drawing 
 shown) and spining AND fliping (as in both together, I spent the time playing raising my right 
 hand and twisting it about everywhere so that my rider would only end up doing a misty or s double 
 back flip 180) . The game rocks and it is definetely a must have for Wii-owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluffers623
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 2, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  This is the fifth game of the SSX series ( i though that tricky was the best) . Anyways, you choose 
 from many different characters such as Mac, Moby, Zoe and Elise who were in the first series. However, 
 the characters look different. JP now has blue hair and a mustache. Mac is really thin, and Moby 
 doesn't have his usual haircut. However, this game has 3 peaks like ssx 3, has awesome music, and 
 amazing graphics. You also get a riding partner and rival. The game has many challenges like race, 
 slopesyle, halfpipe, and slalom. it is an enjoyable game for those who like to snowboard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nkaiton
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 2, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  It's no surprise that SSX Blur is getting polarizing reactions from gamers and reviewers. There 
 is a simple reason for that: some of us in this world have patience, some of us do not. Fortunately, 
 if you're in the former category, Blur will please you to no end. If you embrace challenge and 
 like working for your points, this is your game. Yes, tricks are hard to pull off. So what? If 
 it was easy, you'd get sick of it in a day. Ninja Gaiden's difficulty drove me crazy, but in the 
 end, its undeniable quality won me over. Same applies to Blur in some sick way. And why are people 
 are complaining about the music coming to a grinding halt when your character falls flat on his 
 face? That's the point! The better you get at it, the less you fall; the less you fall, the less 
 the music stops! Problem solved! Simply put, Blur is exactly why I bought a Wii in the first place. 
 Button-mashing is BORING and zooming in the sniper crosshairs is getting pretty old too. The good 
 folks over at Nintendo heard our cries for something new and have delivered huge on their promise. 
 Blur is one more legit reason to buy a Wii if you can find one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armed
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Never really played SSX before, I saw other people play it on the PS2 but never actually played 
 it. From the experiences of what I saw, the game looked fun, and I thought I would get a copy myself 
 for the Wii. At the very moment I popped it in my Wii and from the hands on experiences that i 
 had read prior to buying the game I thought this game was going to be one of those non-gamer type 
 of games where the controls were simplistic enough to where anyone could do them. But what a false 
 pretense that was, at first my reaction towards playing it the first few minutes with my buddy 
 was like.... Why did I not wait for the reviews of IGN or Gamespot... The controls are a lot more 
 complicated than I thought it would be, but after spending some time with the game and actually 
 doing the tutorials I feel that the controls are very intuitive, not perfect, but they actually 
 work for the most part and I like it! It's true that drawing the shapes to do uber tricks are hard, 
 and sometimes annoying because you know you are drawing the shape, but the wii mote just is not 
 detecting it, but if you do accomplish on doing one of the shapes it is worth it! The graphics 
 are ok for the most part, they still look like a GC game to me, but what can you expect this early 
 in the Wii's life, and the sound is good not great but good, I just wish it would not stop every 
 time I fall off my board. Multiplayer is fun, especially if your buddy knows what they are doing, 
 as yourself. I think this game deserves somewhere between an 7.5 or 8. So if you have the time, 
 and have ever felt like snowboarding and doing insane tricks try this game out!!! You WONT REGRET 
 IT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truelove79
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 28, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I've been watching this game for the past couple months like a hawk anticipating it's release. 
 I was all hyped about it and then the bad reviews started rolling in from real reviewers to user 
 reviewers. Sure, there are good reviews too, but I really paid attention to the bad ones because 
 I didn't want to buy this game and regret it. Well, I just got done playing about an hour of this 
 game and holy crap, is it amazing. Everything good you've read about this game is true, so let 
 me just touch on the bad points. There are really only two major bad points, the controls and the 
 ubertricks. So here we go.
  
  1) The Controls
  Let me just say this. They are not what you're used to at all. The learning curve is rather steep 
 but once you get the hang of it, wow, do they feel incredible. I would compare it to learning to 
 drive a stick shift car for the first time. It's awkward at first, but once you're used to it, 
 you just can't go back to an automatic, it just gives you more control. I have no idea what game 
 some of these people are playing, but the nunchuck is very precise and very smooth. It responds 
 immediately and perfectly to your input. If your rider does something unexpected, it's because 
 you're simply not doing what you think you're doing, the controller can't read your mind. Again, 
 going back to the car analogy. Some people think they shifted into 2nd, when in fact they shifted 
 into 4th, and then they get mad at the car when it won't respond. I've also seen reviewers complaining 
 that it's hard to go in a straight line with no joystick feedback, I also have no problem with 
 this either. I don't know, but my own body (my wrist in particular) is feedback enough for me. 
 The controls work just fine, they're just new and different, deal with it. :) My own body &gt; 
 analog joystiq.
  
  2) The Ubertricks
  The big question here is: Do they work? And the answer is YES, they work great. Again, I have no 
 idea what game some of these people were playing, but I had no trouble with the Ubertricks and 
 getting them to work. The only problem , and it's not really a problem, is that they're difficult, 
 but that's why they're called ubertricks isn't it. You have to draw the shape quickly to give your 
 rider enough time to execute the move before hitting the ground again. They are hard, that's a 
 fact, but they do work. If you draw the shape correctly then you do the trick, period. I have a 
 feeling some of these reviewers think they're drawing the shape correctly, when in fact they aren't. 
 In other words, the mind doesn't really know what the hands are doing. There is a section in the 
 training that lets you practice drawing the uber shapes and after one or two tries, I was able 
 to do them all successfully time after time after time with no problem. Some are harder than others, 
 but they all work just fine. Also, another thing I realized after failing the ubertricks on the 
 slopes time after time. You have to press the A button, draw the shape, and then RELEASE the A 
 button to do the trick. If you don't let go, you won't do the trick. It took me a few times to 
 figure that out. The Ubertricks are Uberhard, that's how they should be.
  
  Anyway, again, I have no idea what game some of these reviewers are playing but I have zero problem 
 with the controls. They feel amazing. And even though the learning curve is a little steep, it 
 will take anyone with at least half a brain only 20 to 30 minutes before they're carving up the 
 slopes with ease. It will take a while before you're a master at this game, but that's the fun 
 of it. Basically, I agree with all the pros I've seen listed for this game, and none of the cons.
 
  
  Buy it, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninjo222
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 28, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Basically, if you pick up your copy of SSX Blur and hope for another Wii game which you can hop 
 right into and play like a pro, you're doomed to hate this game with a passion. At first, the controls 
 are difficult to master; in fact, they're difficult to use even competently. This game is not like 
 previous SSX's where you can pick up the controller, button mash, and win a gold instantly.
  
  Some reviewers complain that the controls are simply too hard to use. You will need coordination 
 to be able to play, otherwise they will be too hard for you to use. They'll also complain that 
 Uber Tricks are difficult to pull off, unlike other SSX games. After a few hours with this game, 
 you'll realize just how great the new Uber system is. They're actually difficult to pull off, and 
 you will need lots of air to complete them. Imagine that, to land the best tricks in the game, 
 you might need to practice and have excellent air. This is a serious upgrade for the series.
  
  Aside from the controls, the game looks great, though not quite as good as some of the videos 
 led me to hope. The sound is fantastic, as is the soundtrack, however I do wish the soundtrack 
 wasn't so easily interrupted. Radio Big is back, but unfortunatly the characters don't talk on 
 the track often anymore.
  
  Lastly, gameplay is very solid. You can still freeride down entire peaks and ride up to races like 
 in SSX3, exploring the mountain for Uber icons and challenges. Additionally, the character building 
 is far superior to every other SSX, with different characters having max possible stats, plus a 
 cool system for building stats. There are tons of boards/skis to find, and also some characters 
 and costumes to unlock.
  
  Basically SSX Blur truly lives up to its self-proclaimed title of remix. It takes the legendary 
 SSX3, and good On Tour, then mixes them back up with a new degree of innovation, difficulty, and 
 most importantly, immersion. If it had more new content, and online play, this game would easily 
 be as legendary as SSX3; but, even without all that it is still a must have for your Nintendo Wii. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smit5334
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 28, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  The game looks really good for a Wii game. Its spot on to the look and feel of the the SSX series. 
 The problem is that Wiimote controls are VERY unintuitive.
  
  Tilting the nunchuck is only for major turns. Fine turns use the control stick. The wiimote is 
 sensitive enough. I am not sure why they would do things like that.
  
  Then the nunchuck is used for speed and turning and grinding balance while the wiimote is used 
 for tricks. This is the opposite of what I expect and see in every other game. The wiimote is the 
 major controller, the nunchuck is minor moves. Not in this game.
  
  Its a decent game, but the controls make it too difficult to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quiksilver022
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 3, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  This review is coming from someone who has been playing the SSX series for years now, and has loved 
 absolutely every minute of it (including SSX On Tour.. for the Cube of course!) When I finally 
 got my hands on SSX Blur I was ecstatic! I rushed home, popped 'er in and got started. I began 
 with the tutorial of course, as you need to do with every Wii game around. Things got off to a 
 slow start, due to the fact that some controls are extremely awkward, and you get intensely distracted 
 during gameplay thinking about what movements you need to do next. Ubertricks are extremely difficult, 
 as they are not always responsive and very sensitive. After screwing around with the Tutorial for 
 a bit longer, and practicing in the half-pipe, I finally mastered most of the Ubertricks, and now 
 that I can do them, this game is awesome! Don't give up on it so soon if you're frustrated at the 
 start, because it will only get better! The graphics are great, second only to Zelda and Sonic, 
 and the sound is equally fantastic - there's some great beats and when you fall/stop/screw up, 
 the music stops as well which is kinda neat. Overall, a fun game that will take a lot of practice, 
 but will pay off big time in the end. A must-own for any Wii owner! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitchebaby2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 28, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  I have been an ssx fan from the very beginning, and so far have palyed every single one, and for 
 only owning it a few hours, I realized that this one is my favorite so far, of course the uber-tricks 
 are insanely difficult, it makes for an overall enjoyable experience
  
  Strengths: Immensely interactive, good variety of tricks, really cool uber-tricks, and the fact 
 you can throw snowballs at people
  
  Weaknesses: Uber-Trick system is a little awkward at first, controls arent as sensitive as you 
 would like, and if you aren't used to using both controllers then you will have a big problem trying 
 to steer and pull tricks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigatron
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 27, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Remember SSX? I'm sure a lot of you remember it's superior sequel, SSX Tricky. The SSX series has 
 been good to us, providing fast and addictive fun in every installment. It started to run out of 
 steam with SSX On Tour because it didn't do anything new. Now... thanks to great controls and production 
 values, SSX Blur has given the series a fresh, next-gen start.
  
  But, what are the controls like? They're really original, taking full advantage of the wiimote 
 &amp; nunchuck. You can still control with the analog stick, but in order to really carve, you 
 need to move the nunchuck left and right. The Z button is your boost, and the C button is for tail 
 pressing. Flicking it up will cause you to jump. You also can use the nunchuck buttons for grabs. 
 You use the wiimote for everything else. You move it to spin, flip, and pull off uber tricks. You 
 use the buttons on it to land tricks, and throw snowballs. Although this sounds complicated, it 
 feels really natural with the precise motion-controlled movements. My major complaint is that you 
 have to draw shapes on the screen for uber tricks, which is fine except it's sometimes imprecise. 
 Plus, there's not as many tricks than in previous installments. Overall, the controls are a breath 
 of fresh air.
  
  The sound is really impressive. The thumping, yet smooth soundtrack by Junkie XL definitely sets 
 a funky tone, but what's really cool is that the music is interactive. What I mean is that the 
 better you do, the better the music gets. The worse you do, the worse it gets. As much as I liked 
 the rockin' soundtrack of On Tour, the audio in this game is superb.
  
  The graphics showcase the better-than-gamecube power of the wii. The visuals are colorful, smooth, 
 and stylish. You'll find out why it's called Blur, because of the nice motion effects. The game 
 is a very nice audio/visual experience.
  
  The single player consists of challenges like race and slalom, but you can also free-ride down 
 the mountain. The courses are well designed, and fun. All your favorite characters return, like 
 Elise, Psymon and Mac... but there's a couple new characters too. The multiplayer is limited to 
 2-player splitscreen and 4-player hotseat, which is a shame, but still fun. Overall, this is a 
 great title that stays faithful to the series, but successfully takes advantage of wii technology. 
 The bottom line is... if you're a SSX, snowboarding, or racing fan, you HAVE to check this out! 
 As of now, it's one of the wii's best. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
