-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars: The Force Unleashed
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/starwars2007/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Moving, intense story that will excite fans and nonfans alike.
 Powerful physics engine lets you execute all sorts of awesome-looking moves.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Swinging your remote and Nunchuk around gets old fast.
 The camera can't keep up, and you get limited control of it.
 Stiff animations and low-fidelity sound compression dampen the story .
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 15, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 7.3, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 1,364 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Krome Studios
Genre: Action
Date: Sep 16, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's short and it's frustrating, but you'll still have a reasonably good time with this force-powered 
 adventure. 

  In Star Wars: The Force Unleashed, you grab your trusty controller and wave it around, causing 
 your onscreen counterpart to swing his lightsaber. If you're a Star Wars fan -- and a Wii owner -- you've 
 undoubtedly anticipated this opportunity, though in this instance, it's a better idea than it is 
 a real mechanic. Any type of flailing will do, so the direction of your swings won't really matter, 
 and saber combat boils down to repetitive arm waving. When you throw in a variety of force powers 
 and some poorly implemented quick-time events that all utilize motion controls, you'll find that 
 Force Unleashed is possibly the most waggle-heavy action game available on the system, a distinction 
 that seems fun for the first hour or so, only to quickly lose its appeal. Fortunately, all that 
 random slashing about is somewhat mitigated by occasionally enjoyable action sequences that make 
 you truly feel like a powerful dark Jedi.  

           The story is mature and exciting, even if the visuals and audio don't always do it justice. 

  You're cast as Galen Marek, aka Starkiller, Darth Vader's secret apprentice. The Clone Wars have 
 ended, and as Starkiller, Vader orders you to hunt and destroy the last of the remaining Jedi. 
 The story is brief (expect to finish the campaign in less than six hours) , but it contains multiple 
 twists, features some friendly and not-so-friendly faces, and is both explosive and remarkably 
 intimate. You'll interact with Vader, of course, but Starkiller spends most of his time with an 
 android called PROXY and his female pilot, Juno Eclipse. Sharing the details of the trio's adventures 
 would spoil too much, so suffice it to say, you'll grow remarkably fond of Starkiller and his companions, 
 and their moral conflicts carry a lot of weight.  

  Unfortunately, the game's limited visual capabilities soften the story's dramatic impact more than 
 you might like. The cutscenes are undercut by stiff animations and abrupt, jarring transitions 
 in and out of gameplay, as well as some odd-looking character models and occasional glitches, such 
 as blinking geometry. Audio also takes a hit, which is odd, considering that much of the voice-over 
 work is lifted directly from the Xbox 360/PlayStation 3 version of the game. Poor compression is 
 the culprit here, and it makes the dialogue sound as if you're listening to it on an old phonograph 
 rather than a machine as capable as the Wii.  

  Not that Force Unleashed always looks bad, though it does often come across as awkward and unfinished. 
 Larger environments suffer most, as exemplified by the sight of a distant AT-AT that seems to lumber 
 across a great void of nothingness. In Force Unleashed's more moderately sized environments, the 
 visuals coalesce far better. Some environments are fairly detailed, and the saber action and powerful-looking 
 force abilities produce flurries of particles and other special effects with nary a hint of slowdown. 
 For those keeping score, the Wii version looks essentially identical to the PlayStation 2 version, 
 so it doesn't appear to take advantage of the newer console's capabilities. John Williams' music 
 (and some original tracks) and the familiar swooshes of sabers sound good, just as you'd expect, 
 and only occasionally suffer from the poor compression to which the voice-over was subjected.  
 

           Prepare your wrists, because you'll be using them a lot.      

  The star of the visual parade is the robust physics engine powering your most impressive moves. 
 Using force grip, you can grab and fling any number of objects, including your enemies -- and with 
 force push (activated by thrusting the Nunchuk forward) , you can shove items and foes out of your 
 path. These skills and their variants deliver the game's best moments. Whether you're flinging 
 Felucians into each other or offing swarming rebels with a burst of energy, there are a number 
 of "Did you see that?" moments that will have you grabbing your friends to show them your saber-slinging 
 prowess. It's disappointing that these moves can't be strung together more easily though. The controls -- both 
 buttons and waggles -- can be unresponsive and sometimes lack the fluidity of the other versions. 
 Nevertheless, you've got a number of other tricks up your sleeve, such as a whirlwind of force 
 energy that sucks in nearby enemies and then flings them outward. This is also your most wrist-wrenching 
 move because it involves holding down four buttons and thrusting both the remote and the Nunchuk 
 forward.  

  While the environments aren't totally cluttered with useful objects, this actually works to the 
 game's advantage because the targeting issues prevalent in the other console versions are diminished 
 as a result. There are still some moments when you'll grab a different object than you intended, 
 but given that there are fewer objects to grab, these moments will only provide the occasional 
 frustration. Of greater concern is the camera, which the game tries desperately to get under control, 
 but often leaves you stretching for the D pad to maneuver it into a better position. Oddly, you 
 can only move the camera horizontally because pressing down on the pad activates a useless first-person 
 view. Regardless, Force Unleashed requires a lot of camera fiddling, which is an annoyance that's 
 compounded by the unintuitive nature of using the D pad to do it.  

  Nevertheless, the game moves along at a relatively quick pace, so between droid encounters and 
 boss battles, you'll always be in the thick of the action. You won't find much challenge here; 
 there are plenty of health drops scattered about, and should you die, you'll restart at the most 
 recent checkpoint with all the damage you've already done to your enemies still intact. This is 
 probably for the best because it keeps the pace moving. Some variety comes by way of Force Unleashed's 
 God of War-style quick-time events, which result in some terrific, violent-looking moves, whether 
 you're smashing on an opposing Jedi or defeating a rancor in a series of thrilling acrobatics. 
 As cool as they look, these sequences don't work that well. You usually need to tilt the remote 
 or the Nunchuk to match the onscreen diagram and then thrust it forward. It requires surprising 
 precision, and not only does it take your eyes and your mind off of the action, but it is more 
 annoying than fun.  

           Explore the dark side with unlockable costumes like this one.      

  Unlockable costumes 
 and other extras won't give you much reason to return, but you may get a bit of enjoyment out of 
 the simple but amusing Dueling mode that lets you and a local buddy choose from a number of Star 
 Wars characters (unlocked during the single-player campaign) and go toe to toe. While each playable 
 avatar is better at certain moves than others, each character plays pretty much the same, so you'll 
 zoom around levels on Hoth, Bespin, and other locales, flinging your opponent around and slicing 
 him up with the lightsaber. Most of the elements of the single-player game are here, for better 
 or for worse, including graspable objects and quick-time events. But it's kind of neat to bash 
 on each other as Darth Vader or Luke Skywalker, and while it's not quite the real Star Wars fighting 
 game you've always yearned for, it's a decent diversion that will amuse fans.  

  So if you're hankering to wave around your remote and slash up Jawas, this is your chance, though 
 The Force Unleashed may not be as raucously entertaining as you may have expected. Nevertheless, 
 if you've got five or six hours to kill, this is a decent way to spend them, particularly if you're 
 a Star Wars devotee looking to fill in the gaps between Episodes III and IV. It's too bad that 
 so many annoyances and all that random arm waving get in the way because they detract from a game 
 that had the potential to be a lot more.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (121 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: treki595
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 5:59 pm PT
Review:  This game has very very very very very very very very poor graphics, which coming from me who doesn't 
 care much about graphics in a game, is really bad. The story started out ok i guess but then it 
 goes haywire and "The Apprentice" (for he has no real name) does some stupid stuff that were very 
 obviously the wrong things to do in the short movies (in which they have nearly stationary mouths) . 
 This game threw no real challenge as it is very forgiving...... too forgiving. As you are fighting, 
 your health naturally goes down and once you reach critical, health starts popping up out of nowhere 
 so that you don't die (especially happens in boss fights... they literally push you into health) 
 and in the unfortunate case that you do die, (unfortunate is really not the right word) the game 
 restarts you EXACTLY where you left off with full health and a damaged enemy. So this made the 
 game very easy and ruined the challenges of the game because "hell if you die, you'll just come 
 back to life!!!!! again and again and again and again." there is no limit on how many times you 
 die until you LOSE. (Oh what such an evil word!!!! run cryptonic and lucasarts RUN!!) p. s. there 
 is no losing in this game. It's just like the gov't "No harsh things allowed!" but enough about 
 dieing and the gov't. The end of the story, which i am not going to reveal for all of you people 
 still wishing to play it, is very disappointing and screws up the whole point of the game even 
 more. It's very sad that lucasarts actually has their name on this piece of **** of a game. On 
 the upside of the game, the duel mode is a fun way to challenge your friends and test your skill. 
 Though the graphics are even worse than in the campaign mode and the maps are small and cramped, 
 it is a semi-good mode. It was really not what I was expecting out of a good series of Star Wars 
 games but i guess there is a fail in every saga. The one thing I am glad about this game is that 
 i didn't buy it. (i rented it from Blockbuster) =)
  
  Overall it was a good game with semi-good story line horrible graphics and the controls were pretty 
 much WII standard controls nothing complicated or convoluted. If you really want a good Star Wars 
 game may i suggest Battlefront 1 or 2? or maybe even Star Wars Republic Commando? Star Wars Knights 
 of the Old Republic anyone? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cameronrules36
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 9:37 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed rocks!!!!!!!!!!!!
  I will review the good and bad things in this game in my review. 
  
  The Good:
  Many levels 
 and Locations to explore
  20+ Force Moves
  Unlockable lightsaber types and costumes
  
  
  The Bad:
  A Few glitch problems
  
  In this game, you can enter the life of Starkiller, 
 Vader's apprentice. The story takes him on a lifechanging journey to defeat the sith, or join them. 
 You fight enemies and jedi on planets like Felucia, Kashykk, Coruscant, Raxus Prime and on the 
 Death Star itself. You can unlock force moves like lightning, choke, push, pull, repusle, maelstrom 
 and over 20+ more moves and upgrade them with the "Force Points" you collect by killing enemies. 
 Combat moves include throwing your saber, and of course, using it to oblitterate enemy troops. 
 You will fight bossess like Jedi, Sith, AT-STs and even Rancors (Normal and Bull kind) . You can 
 unlock orange, red, pink, purple, blue, green, and yellow lightsabers by finding crystals. You 
 can also unlock bonus costumes. Also, by finding Jedi Holocrons (200 are hiden across the game) , 
 you can view concept art in the rogue shadow, as well as Factfiles of weapons, characters, vehicles 
 and planets. On some of the concept art are hidden codes which you can enter in the rogue shadow, 
 to unlock bonus characters and cheats like invincibillity. These characters include characters 
 from all 6 episodes, and Ventress from the clone wars and Mara jade from the later books. You cannot 
 unlock Grevious or Yoda, which is a shame. Boss characters and friendly characters from the game 
 are also unlockable. One flaw from changing characters is that it takes allot of time to change 
 because it shows the droid changing the costumes for about 3 seconds. Also, I think it would be 
 better if the game would allow you to unlock double lightsabers, which it dosen't. 
  
  9.5/10 in total. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2009 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars the Force Unleashed is a fun game to complete. Its offers unique controls to the wii 
 remote which make it feel like you're actually holding a light saber sometimes. while going through 
 the game you are able to find hidden secrets in the game, that unlock cool extra's like different 
 light saber colors, new clothing and artwork. The Force Unleashed also shows the true side of the 
 dark force as you can torture the weak. In some levels you can force lightning zap the poor little 
 jabba people for a kill and they scream. The first level you get to play as darth Vader, with every 
 force power usable and you get to kill wookies. After that you get to play the main character which 
 at time he is way weaker than his master darth Vader, but as you go along with the main character 
 and get more kills for xp you can unlock upgrades to your force power which may help you out allot 
 or hurt you in the long run. The boss battles can be very easy, if you have force lighting as you 
 can zap your enemy down to his last bit of health and then go for cut scene kill, (doing it normal 
 may be fun, but will take very long to do) . The cut scenes between levels are okay for a wii game, 
 as they show what the characters are doing before hand with an interesting video, instead of some 
 other good wii games which don't have this, Instead they got the character voices talking in the 
 background. The multiplayer aspect of the game is pretty good except I wished it had online play 
 which could have made the game a lot more interesting. With multiplayer you can unlock more stuff 
 for it like characters, levels and ECT through playing the single player levels. Some interesting 
 characters are obi wan, Luke, and all your other favorites. The only bad thing in this game is 
 I would have liked more stuff in each level to be destroyed, instead of simple objects and walls 
 that look very weak. 
  Overall Star Wars the Force Unleashed is a very fun game to play and I would recommend you to try 
 it, before buying it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackhawkBix
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 17, 2009 10:16 am PT
Review:  I remember the 90's when it seemed like it was always between LucasArts, Id Software, and Blizzard 
 for Game of the Year. LucasArts dazzled gamers with unbelievable entertaining pieces like Jedi 
 Knight, The Curse of Monkey Island, Grim Fandango, Full Throttle, and Outlaws.
  
  In recent years LucasArts has seemingly gone for "quantity over quality". All they have been producing 
 over recent years has been Star Wars titles, with an Indiana Jones game here and there.
  
  The Force Unleashed is a fun, entertaining game, but it could have been so much more. The lightsaber 
 combat and force powers are some of the best, if not the best, seen in a Star Wars game. There 
 are plenty of boss fights and cool bonus features which is also a plus, along with plenty of different 
 types of enemies.
  
  The weakness revolve around the repetition. While the combat is fun at first, you're pretty much 
 doing the same thing over and over, without much in the way to mix it all up. The game is virtually 
 the same no matter how far you've progressed, and that's not a good thing.
  
  The Wii Controls are a bit quirky and unintelligible at first. After about the first or second 
 level though, you should have them fully figured out. After this, you learn that they actually 
 work rather well, and are one of the most positive aspects of the game.
  
  The lightsaber combat isn't very complex, but it's cool all the same. The few moves you have are 
 performed entertainingly well with the Wii Remote. The combat system's major kudos come from the 
 numerous and flashy force moves available. There is 20+ and they are the best force moves seen 
 in a SW game, hence the title. The downfall to this though, is that you won't use all of them. 
 You will quickly adapt to 2 or 3 moves and use them throughout the game. 
  
  The difficulty of the game is not very high. While there may be plenty of bosses and enemies it's 
 too easy. There is more than enough health lying around, and even if you do die, you start right 
 back where you left off. This means that the enemies you already killed, stay dead. There is no 
 game over at all. Also you will quickly develop a strategy with how to fight enemies that will, 
 with the exception of some of the boss fights, make you nearly invincible.
  
  There is a lot of cool bonus features in this game. You get to have a Darth Maul v. s. Darth Vader 
 fight in the duel mode if you so wish. The bonuses are really neat at first, but the appeal dies 
 fast, and doesn't really give you anymore incentive for a round 2 at the game.
  
  
  The biggest annoyance of the game has to be the graphical errors that surface and the unbelievably 
 annoying camera. There will be times, especially in boss fights, where you will only see the front 
 view of your character and nothing else. You basically have to take a pummeling from your enemies 
 and wait for the camera to refocus. This issue alone would have made my score for the game a 7.5 
 instead of a 7.0.
  
  This game reminds me a lot of the Revenge of the Sith game. Both games had plenty of potential, 
 awesome combat, and great bonus features. The problem was they both lacked difficulty and were 
 too repetitive.
  
  It upsets me to see LucasArts in this way. They're games have so much going for them, but seemingly 
 end in a somewhat unpolished and unfinished way. Simply put: untapped potential. I can't down a 
 company for wanting to sell a product, but I feel that the current ones have lost the quality of 
 the past ones. Come on LucasArts...... you're fans are starving for what we know you can deliver. 
 
  
  APPEASE US!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paco007mf
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 1, 2009 11:58 am PT
Review:  First of all i want to say I am a huge Star Wars fan. After this statement, i have to be objective. 
 The play is awfull; it's desperating to get the power you want, it is simply not acurate. The fact 
 of moving the wiimote gets boring with the time.
  It is too linear, you have always to do the same thing, kill enemies.
  But the camara is the 
 worst thing from all. You can not see the enemies, it gets on your way, even in the cinmeas have 
 serious problem.
  The sound and physics are dissapointing, i know i won't have visuals like XBOX 360 but they could 
 do it better, it is like playing N64.
  The multiplayer is just not so fun to play. They could spend more time developing it.
  But what 
 is worthy is the history, it is great! The fact that you never know the name of "Starkiller" is 
 a good detail. One more thing is the music, IS STAR WARS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightsaber6
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 1:46 pm PT
Review:  star wars the foce unleashed for wii. the story starts out with darth vader going on kashyyk to 
 find a rouge jedi. After the awsome fight he has with this rouge jedi he discovers he has a son (wich 
 is the secret apprentice you play as.) so then the game skips ahead a couple of years an the true 
 adventure begins. Now i thought that this game was extremely easy but i found the gameplay amazing 
 espacilly the lightsaber fight with jedis. during your mission youll fight at-st giant monsters 
 and of course jedis. When i played this i found killing storm troopers on basically every mission 
 was boreing. But i like how you could grip them and swing them around and make them go flying. In 
 this game i felt like i was actually welding a lightsaber in my hand! when ever i used force push 
 i felt like i was actually doing it wich is why i like star wars the force unleashed for the wii 
 alot. wich is why im gonna give it a 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superfatman23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 4:47 pm PT
Review:  I have always loved the star wars franchise from revenge of the sith to the force unleashed. This 
 star wars plot is something different you play as this guy named well i don't remember so hes a 
 random jedi trained by Darth Vader under the sith so you kill other random jedi for Darth Vader 
 so onto the gameplay for the wii theres a difference between button mashing and swing the wii remote 
 in star wars it is really fun when using your wii remote as sword and using the nunchuck to push 
 people several feet across hallways and knock them into statues. Star wars wonderful destructible 
 features lets you destroy anything that comes in your way. theres also perfoming specials and cool 
 lookin moves using the force and your lightsaber. So get to stab stab stab your enemies one the 
 360 and ps3 don't have is a multiplayer mode i have not tryed it out yet but its really fun for 
 the graphics on the wii they are really good especially for certain stuff like jedi temples playing 
 this game is a joy to any star wars fan but thers 2 bad things on star wars the force unleashed 
 theres always adjusting the camera when it gets in your way and sometimes the jedi needs to pick 
 a soiders gun and start shooting at enemies so there could have a bit of startegy going on but 
 other than give this game a buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CastleCrasher64
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 5:24 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about Star Wars: The Force Unleashed, I thought: "cool, a game about being a 
 bad guy who uses the force", but trust me, its not all its cracked up to be. Starting out as Darth 
 Vader, you venture around, slashing and force choking people. You then become a Sith-in-training. 
 You progress through levels killing everything and blowing objects up to find power-ups and extras 
 like lightsaber parts and screenshots.
  This was fun... for an hour. After that, everything seemed the same as the level before. After 
 a while, I tried to go back to a level to get an extra I missed... just to find out that you cannot 
 replay levels until you beat the game. So now you might ask, "what do you do now?" well I'll tell 
 you. You fight your way through the rest of the game to get the extra you missed.
  By now, the game is getting very boring/frustrating. This is about the time you go online and look 
 for cheats. You find and enter the cheats and beat the game. Congratulations, you kind of beat 
 a "great" game.
  
  To save you the trouble, stay away from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Before I get into the game, I would like to say how much I hate the idea of titles having one version 
 on the Xbox 360 and PS3 while a second version is made for the PS2 and the Wii. I know the Wii's 
 hardware cannot compete with the other next gen systems, but it is far more capable than the PS2 
 and doesn't deserve to have it's games 'dumbed down' graphically just so they can be released on 
 both systems. I don't even consider this a next gen game when it looks virtually identical to the 
 last gen's version.
  
  As for the game itself, other than the disappointing graphics, it actually has a couple of features 
 not in the Xbox 360 and PS3 version. There is a new game mode and a huge amount of concept art 
 to unlock. Of course, I also have to mention how much fun it is to swing your arms around like 
 you are actually holding a lightsaber or using the Force instead of just pressing buttons.
  
  Like many Wii games, the controls make the game. They are a bit more refined than other games, 
 like Pirates of the Caribbean where you can win most fights just by waving your arm back and forth. 
 While you can win earlier battles with random flailing, the harder difficulties require more finesse. 
 Swinging to the left or right swings your saber left and right respectively. Swinging upward does 
 an uppercut maneuver. Thrusting forward performs a quick stab attack. Many more moves can be unlocked 
 by earning experience from killing enemies. Most moves can be linked together to form combos, of 
 which more can be also unlocked. The timing of the combos takes some practice, but it is definitely 
 possible to master. The nunchuck is used to perform most Force powers. The C button uses Force 
 lightning. The Z button picks enemies up and the joystick can be used to fling them around. While 
 they are held in the air, holding down A and swinging the remote will impale them with your lightsaber. 
 Exclusive to this version is ability to grab a gun turret with the Force and it will hover next 
 to you while shooting your enemies for a short time. Lightsaber moves and Force powers can be combined 
 to make combos as well, such as swinging the remote left, then right, then thrusting the nunchuck 
 forward. This does a two strike hit with the saber then a force push that throws the enemy backward. 
 There are motion-based scripted events where you must perform the proper action in the time frame 
 of a second or two. Some are as simple as moving the remote or nunchuck in any direction. The cooler 
 ones require you to rotate either the remote or nunchuck to the proper angle then thrust it forward. 
 The latter usually occurs during Force battles with other Jedi and really make you feel like part 
 of the experience. The problem in the other version where it was difficult to select the enemy 
 you wanted is lessened here, but it is still an issue from time to time. You can use the down button 
 to lock onto an enemy, but it is still hard to actually select them to start with sometimes. There 
 are far less items scattered around the level to accidentally grab than in the other version, which 
 helps. The only serious issue I have with the controls is that they assume no one is left handed. 
 The tutorial explains the moves only from a right handed persons perspective. When you are to use 
 the remote for a scripted action, it shows up on the right side of the screen and the nunchuck 
 shows on the left. Since I am left handed, this made me have to concentrate a bit harder than a 
 righty would and caused me to fail on occassion because I used the wrong hand.
  
  There are plenty of hidden items as well as an extra game mode. The game contains two hundred pieces 
 of concept art hidden around the levels and plenty of hidden bonuses that give you experience to 
 rank up your abilities. Unlockable costumes can be found and, while they don't change the gameplay 
 any, it's still fun to try to get them all. The extra game mode is like a fighting game that allows 
 you to choose to battle against heroes from across the Star Wars history, although many need to 
 be unlocked. It isn't good enough to be a stand alone game, but it's a fun diversion if you want 
 to try something different from the main story. One big downside is that it cannot be played alone 
 since it only has a two player mode.
  
  The game follows the same story as the other version, but all the levels are different and there 
 are even a few extra stages. You are still Darth Vaders apprentice and everything plays out the 
 same. A lot of the emotion is lost in the cutscenes because there aren't as detailed of facial 
 expression in this version as there are in the PS3 and Xbox 360 one, but it is still an amazing 
 story that cannot be missed by Star Wars fans.
  
  The graphics are the game's biggest failing. They fit right in on the PS2, but the Wii can do much 
 better. The levels aren't bad, just bland and don't begin to compare to the other version. Everything 
 is much more blocky than is necessary. The first level where you play as Darth Vader is even worse. 
 Everything looked so bad that I briefly considered giving up on the game. Luckily I forged on and 
 things got better once I took over as his apprentice.
  
  It's a fun and exciting game that is over all to quickly; expect to finish in about six hours. 
 It takes good advantage of the Wii controls and gives Star Wars fans a story to remember. Had it 
 been longer and more than a copy of the PS2 version, I could have rated it better. As is, it has 
 it's problems but is still fun and I would have to say that it makes you feel more like an all 
 powerful Jedi than the next gen version does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stephenage
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 1:47 pm PT
Review:  The biggest complaint with this game is the length of gameplay, yes the story lin can be completed 
 in under 6 hours and there is no real replay value; but it is 6 hours worth of pure enjoyment! 
 Basically you get to use a lightsaber with the wiimote! For that reason alone it's worth getting 
 (for obvious reasons this does not make a game good; see review of Clone Wars Lightsaber Duels) , 
 but more than slashy goodness it has awesome force powers available to you with a flick of the 
 wrist. This game is a delight, the story is immersive and full of twists turns and would make a 
 fantastic film! Playing as the apprentice lets you feel the full power of the force; powers that 
 are- in the words of Palpatine- "not from a Jedi" and therefore just awesome. Yoda wouldn't let 
 you torture Jawa's (well you can get a few cheeky tusken raiders in but that just leads to watching 
 your mother die and eventual darksideness, ok we get it karma!!) and throw storm troopers into 
 walls. I love every aspect of the game and I have even had fun in the limited and to be honest 
 pretty rubbish multi player. I have few points left so let's summarise!
  
  The gameplay is good, the boss battles are great with fantastic finishing moves. The story is just 
 awesome, the characters are fantastic, the graphics are rubbish but who cares! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguinboy95
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 2:57 pm PT
Review:  you may have herd about this game on many web sites and gaming magazines but LucasArts lied to 
 us all. they said that they wanted to make a good story but all they did is make 2 expect able 
 endings and a story that is as good as a lucky charms commercial... O. K. i will tell the truth. 
 the story is as good as one of the new Pokemon episodes. they also over power the stormtropers 
 and other pepole you wipe away like a peace of sand. you can throw your lightsaber through a enemy 
 and they live. (THOSE STORMTROPPERS LIVE, LIVED I SAY! A WORTHLESS STORMTROPPER LIVED AFTER BEING 
 IMPALED BY A LIGHTSABER! I DOUGHT EVIN DARTH VADER COULD SURVIVE BEING IMPALED BY A LIGHTSABER.) 
 The enemy's also can survive exploding from within, being pushed through a wall and then being 
 shocked, and having a giant pole being thrown at them. The bosses are also overly powerful. (The 
 3ed hardest boss in the game is a mandalorein with a stick.) the graphics are O. K. for a WII game. 
 The first play through of the game will last about 5 hours. Also there are over 200 extra things 
 to find. All and all, this game is O. K. but all the excitement it generated before its release 
 makes it the biggest disappointment of 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BookMaster117
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2009 7:22 am PT
Review:  First off, I don't think that gamespot rates games farily. I take them for a bunch of PS3 and Xbox 
 360 fanboys. This is really a good game. Im about to list the pros and cons here. Firts the pros.
 
  
  Pros! The best parts of the game
  
  1: Alittle bit of button mashing and alittle bit of motion at the same time. Take one of my favorite 
 moves for example, detonate. You shock your enemy by pressing c and then push the nunchuck forward 
 to force push them into a wall and make them explode into a lighting bomb. and then theres repulse, 
 maelstorm, sith seeker, and a bunch of other moves that requie you to hold or press certain buttons 
 and swing the nunchuck or the wii remote or both.
  
  2: Awesome force moves. I mean, do you know any other game that lets you shock your opponet and 
 then force them into a wall making them explode, and taking others with them? C'mon! Thats awesome. 
 And then charging up your force into a swirling ball of energy around you then releasing it, killing 
 everyone in the room (if there not a boss) . this game has the ultimate force moves ever. Im still 
 tryin g to get over being able to throw people into each other. 
  
  3: Boss fights. The first actual boss fight in the game, which is the oen where you're darth vader 
 vs the rouge jedi, was very hard for me at first. I actually died the first time I played it. I 
 thought the game was gonna suck if this kept on happening. And then I get control of Satrkiller 
 and relized how much Darth Vader sucks. The first fight with Starkiller vs Rahm Kota, that was 
 fun and challenging. And through out the whole game, you gvet into more boss fights of course. 
 And as long as you figure out the pattern they use (sometimes they just show you) they are able 
 to be beat. I have to say the Emporer was very fun. I got into lock like everytime he got up from 
 me force pushing him. His pattern was easy to figure out. And he was challeging. And so far, i 
 think the hardest boss I ever fought was the Emporer. And Im looking forward to doing it again. 
 
  
  Cons! Oh no! Where they went wrong. 
  
  1: Graphics. I know the gamecube had beter graphics than this, take a look at StarFox for example. 
 But nope, Krome just couldn't pull it off I guess. So the whole time Im sitting here in my Jedi 
 Cerimonial and they look swept back like theres a strong wind. Oh I forgot, theres no wind in Vaders 
 Flagship. The lightsaber is worse. half the time it looks like Im holding a blue beam instead of 
 a lightsaber with a hilt. "Oh no! where did my hand go?!" "I told you not to touch the beam. Just 
 like I told you not to touch the stove". Does the lighting hurt your eyes too?
  
  2: Boss fight camrea angles. I know I had nothing but praise for the boss fights in the pros section, 
 but the camrea angles during the fights suck. thoughout the game, you go around looking over Satrkillers 
 shoulder keeping a good distance back. Then wehn you get to the boss, it looks liek your trying 
 to look up Starkiller's butt. Can anyoen else say force fart? 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 7:49 pm PT
Review:  It seems like good Star Wars games are hard to come by these days as opposed to the early to late 
 nineties when nearly every Star Wars game was actually quite good. The Force Unleashed was hyped 
 to death up until release, and to say the final product is underwhelming is an understatement.
 
  
  In The Force Unleashed you assume the role of Starkiller, Darth Vader's "secret apprentice" who 
 has spent his entire life under his tutelage. Starkiller happens to be ridiculously powerful, with 
 few flaws which lowered my empathy towards the character a great deal. Despite this, for a console 
 action game the plot of The Force Unleashed is fairly good, and is definitely a cinematic experience 
 that rivals the atrocious prequels.
  
  While the story is fairly compelling, the gameplay is not. The Force Unleashed can be summarized 
 as a generic platform action game with flashy Force displays. The Wii version tries to mix things 
 up, but essentially all it accomplishes is being different from its XBox and PS3 counterparts... 
 and in many ways much more tedious. You essentially mow down weak enemies with your lightsaber 
 and small selection of Force powers until you reach a boss battle.
  
  Boss battles in The Force Unleashed tend to be irritating, especially if you're new to the game... 
 the Wii version in particular. Essentially you either hack away with your lightsaber, or use Force 
 powers to drop your opponent's health meter. If you get killed, a quarter of your opponent's health 
 meter is restored once you respawn. Once you get the boss' health down to a certain point, the 
 game demands that you do a showy "finishing move" by shaking the Wii controllers at random. If 
 you make even one mistake, the boss' health meter... you guessed it - is restored by a quarter.
 
  
  Visually The Force Unleashed is pretty unimpressive, the Wii version anyway. There's ragdoll physics 
 and the like, but the textures are undetailed and the character models have low polygons. The audio 
 is fairly good, featuring a combination of John Williams music and an original music score that 
 captures the Star Wars theme quite well. The voice acting is a mixed bag, on one hand you've got 
 exceptional sound alikes for Darth Vader and Emperor Palpatine, on the other hand you've got the 
 schizophrenic voice of Starkiller who can't decide whether he speaks with an American or English 
 accent and the abysmal voice acting for minor characters.
  
  You want to be a Jedi? Dust off Dark Forces II: Jedi Knight and its subsequent sequels. The Force 
 Unleashed is a generic console action game with a few flashy Force effects for boss finishing moves. 
 The only saving grace is the story, and if you want to experience the story then you're probably 
 better off buying the novelization.
  
  + Cinematic storyline
  + The original music is well done
  + Vader and Palpatine's voice actors did an exceptional job
 
  
  - Generic console action platformer gameplay
  - Tedious to frustrating boss battles
  - Jedi Temple missions are tacked on, and contribute nothing to the plot
  - The most ridiculous 
 Star Wars protagonist since Darth Revan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbbbrbbb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 6:28 pm PT
Review:  While Lucasarts focused mainly on the Xbox and PS3 versions of the game, the Wii version is much 
 better, (I've played all versions of the game.) Yes, of course the graphics can be a little bit 
 off, but what makes the game so great is it's story, voice/acting, and gameplay. What makes the 
 Wii version overall better though, is it's content. You will certainly find new characters and 
 levels exclusive to the Wii version. Also, the idea of your Wii remote being a lightsaber is pretty 
 cool. In my opinion, Other than the original Battlefront, This star wars game is the biggest success 
 yet. Lucasarts and Krome studios in association with George Lucas, is the perfect formula, for 
 the perfect Star Wars Wii game. Hopefully though, another star wars game will be released that 
 will utilize the features of the new Wii motion plus. This will make the experience much more intense. 
 If anyone agrees or disagrees, please leave comments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doombringer175
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 5:42 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best. It is about time this idea came around. THe game and consold are perfectly 
 mixed. THe controles are the best idea ever. I do not care if the devise for it failed, it was 
 not needed. The one on one are sweet. between the strategy and the final moves these fights are 
 always a chalenge. The CLones and rebles pose little chalenge. The force powers are both unique 
 and new. Everything from the old force push and lightsaber throw to the force repulse to the sear 
 power of it. instead of moving rocks you can move ships. The only drawback is that sometimes it 
 poses no chalange at all. But the story makes up for all of the little problems that this website 
 nit bicks. I check out the cheats for this game (on this site of corse) And the unlockables are 
 the best. picture this Han Solo with a lightsaber. Funny yes. (chuckle) 
  
  Final outcome: Get this game. Star Wars lovers will love it. Cheats allow more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Augaumon1234
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 5:40 am PT
Review:  First of all when I got Star Wars the FORCE unleashed for the Wii and the PS2 I had no idea this 
 was going to be intense. I had this game before it came out because I pre-ordered the game for 
 both systems. The graphics in this game are freaking awesome for the Wii because you use the force 
 with the numchuk, and strife the Wii remote to swing your lightsaber. If you picked this game up 
 and you have no idea how to play DON'T GO TO THE TUTORIAL! It will just waste your time, take it 
 from someone who beat this game 4 times, 2 light side endings and 2 dark side endings. The controls 
 are; on the nunchuk the control stick moves your character, the C button uses the force lighting, 
 double C doubles the power and you have to unlock this skill, Z button force grips objects and 
 if you turn the nunchuk upside down sideways you can force choke the living, OK moving on to the 
 remote, the A button while moving the remote you do a lightsaber throw, the B button makes you 
 jump, the up button on the remote puts you into third person view, left and right moves the camera, 
 locks on to the enemy. OK moving on to the force powers, Z + B while throwing the remote and the 
 nunchuk down makes you do a force repulse, C button makes you do force lighting and double tap 
 the C button will double the power, Z button grips objects and enemies and if you turn the nunchuk 
 upside down does a force choke to the enemy, Z button + throwing the nunchuk down throws enemies 
 to the ground Z + swinging the remote down pummels enemies, pushing the remote forward makes you 
 do a force push, A button + swinging the remote throws your lightsaber, A button + moving the control 
 stick forward makes you do a dash, C button + pushing the remote forward electrifies the enemy 
 to other enemies in the area, pushing the remote forward and hitting the C button electrifies the 
 area that the force went to, Z + C + A + B and holding them and throwing the remote and the nunchuk 
 down makes you do a force malestorm. Moving on to combos, swing the remote left and right twice 
 and then hitting the C button electrifies your lightsaber, swinging the remote left and right 3 
 times and then hitting the Z button throws the enemy to the ground, swinging the remote left and 
 right twice and hitting the Z button makes you push away all the enemies in the area when your 
 fighting multiple enemies, If you get your force powers to the max you can swing the remote left 
 and right 2 or 3 times and hit the A button, it pummels the enemy to the ground and then does a 
 finisher if you did this correctly. That's all the combos and force powers. I give this game a 
 8.5 because for one thing the game is very intense, the learning curve is very hard if you don't 
 know how to play for the first time, The boss battles and the mini boss battles are intense and 
 epic and plus you have to follow a pattern when you get down to the end of his/her/things life 
 so follow the control schemes and you will be good to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jkeen95
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 11, 2009 2:01 am PT
Review:  The game was an exellent play but if you want it I reccomend renting it. The game only took me 
 six hours . If you want to take the full experience of the game I say use cheat codes. There are 
 plenty of bosses but only a couple are hard. When you have to finish off the bosses you will encounter 
 a certain combo. They might be a little trickey at first but it only takes one try till you get 
 it. The story line is great but can get a little strange because at times you are forced to kill 
 sith lords. In the beginning of the game you go to the wookie world and play as Darth Vader. I 
 just wish you had more playing time as him. If your looking for a long fun game to play this sure 
 is not it. And to get everything you have to keep playing the short story over and over again. 
 Still this game was a pretty fun short game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScionofEntropy
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 7, 2009 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed, upon its multi-platform release, quickly became the fastest selling 
 Star Wars game release of all time. It debuted many moons ago, boasting a robust physics engine 
 that allowed dynamic object destruction and advanced survivability in enemy AI. The demonstrations 
 generated a huge buzz, and the concept for the game became an instant hit. It wasn't long before 
 The Force Unleashed was announced for release on virtually every platform. The Wii release, while 
 essentially a stripped down port, can still be pretty entertaining.
  
  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed begins on the Wookiee home world of Kashyyk, a planet covered in 
 dense jungles and swamplands. The Empire leads a strike against a Wookiee city, hunting a rogue 
 Jedi who escaped during the Jedi Purge, which took place during and after the third Star Wars prequel 
 film, Revenge of the Sith. Darth Vader leads the tactical strike, ripping his way through hordes 
 of Wookiees on his warpath to his next target. After meeting heavy resistance and easily dispatching 
 all his foes along the way, Vader engages the Jedi in a duel and kills him quickly. It's then that 
 the Jedi Knight's son, Galen Marek, approaches Vader. Vader, sensing great potential in the boy, 
 takes him under his wing and raises him as his secret apprentice, Starkiller. As Starkiller, you'll 
 be sent out to do Vader's dirty work when he can't, killing Jedi fugitives and exiles along the 
 way as your master schemes to overthrow the Emperor.
  
  Many have credited The Force Unleashed as having the best story in a Star Wars media in decades, 
 and this much can be said: they're absolutely right. The Force Unleashed doesn't boast a particularly 
 lengthy story, but players will be engaged from start to finish by the impressive scope and depth 
 of the narrative. The story is mature and rife with moral conflicts, and it's often very exciting, 
 though unfortunately dragged down some by uneven visuals.
  
  The game is given to you in fairly standard mission-based format. Before every mission, you're 
 in Starkiller's ship, the Rogue Shadow, which acts as your central hub. From here, you can customize 
 your lightsaber, upgrade techniques, enter cheat codes, change your outfit, and select your next 
 destination. Several cutscenes also take place here, breaking up the action a bit as you get some 
 exposition about your next mission and learn a bit more about the characters.
  
  When you select a mission, you're shown a brief introduction to the level, and then the mayhem 
 begins. Every level is fairly linear, though there's thankfully a good variety among the stages. 
 There's the familiar TIE Fighter factory, a lush jungle world, a droid graveyard teeming with hostile 
 scrap droids, and the Jedi Temple of Coruscant, which you'll be frequenting over the course of 
 the story. Levels are usually pretty straightforward, in any case, requiring you to get from point 
 A to point B, kicking butt along the way with your vast array of Force powers and your deadly lightsaber. 
 As you kill enemies, you gain points to upgrade your powers, finding the occasional lightsaber 
 upgrade crystal along the way, as well as Jedi Holocrons that unlock little art blurbs. And, of 
 course, at the end of every level (and often in the middle as well) , you'll encounter a different 
 boss, ranging from Imperial AT-STs to Jedi Knights. 
  
  Most of these fights are pretty entertaining and varied, with a variety of things going on in each, 
 like one boss summoning waves of droids to attack you or another that's protected by shields you 
 need to break down. Still, there generally isn't a great deal of depth to the fights, and they 
 usually boil down to firing off X Force power and then waggling like a fiend, ad infinitum. And 
 really, this isn't always bad, but the challenge involved is typically almost nil. Quick time events 
 have also been implemented, often throughout every battle and always at the end during a finisher 
 sequence. These segments, controlled by gestures of the Wiimote and Nunchuk, are fun to watch and 
 nicely animated, but there isn't much depth to them, as they generally involve a flick of one controller 
 or the other. It seems as though the game could have benefited from taking a page of the Resident 
 Evil 4 Wii formula, and implementing both gestures and button presses.
  
  TFU's gameplay varies greatly depending on the situation. The lightsaber combat, controlled through 
 gestures of the Wii Remote and occasional use of different buttons in combos and special attacks. 
 Left, right, down swings and thrusts of the remote perform corresponding actions -- or they do in 
 theory. Realistically, the Wiimote/lightsaber combat is something of a disappointment. It isn't 
 so much that the lightsaber doesn't immediately respond when you swing the Wiimote, but it typically 
 doesn't react accordingly, and stringing together a coherent combo that resembles anything like 
 what gestures you performed is difficult. Despite this, the waggling is sometimes entertaining, 
 though it does eventually become bothersome, and many may feel as though controls would have benefited 
 from mapping most lightsaber combat to the buttons of the Wiimote rather than excessive waggling.
 
  
  Inversely, the Force Powers are generally fun and easy to use, and the gestures involved in using 
 them are both fitting and responsive. Thrusting the Nunchuk forward will perform a Force Push, 
 and holding the Z trigger and flipping the Nunchuk upside-down or shaking it will perform either 
 Force Choke or Force Pummel respectively, strangling an opponent or hammering them with free objects 
 from the surrounding area. The effect of these powers is enhanced by a pretty robust lighting and 
 particle effects engine, and Force Lightning, in all its Storm Trooper-flaying glory, manifests 
 itself beautifully when fired off against a large group of enemies. Seeing that the Force Powers 
 were such a high point, it seems somewhat odd that upgrading them can become an arduous process 
 at higher ranks.
  
  TFU is a mish-mash of good graphics and bad. Most of the environments look good, but in larger 
 areas, the textures can get messy and occasionally draw distances fall short of parts of the scenery. 
 The in-combat animation is typically strong, but a lot of the cutscene animation looks awkward 
 and wooden. Much of the time, characters' facial expressions are either neutral or unreadable, 
 despite the obvious intonation of their voices. On occasion, objects will move sluggishly or come 
 to awkward and abrupt stops, and several of the characters, especially in their faces, lack very 
 much detail.
  
  To its credit, however, the rest of the game makes for a decent graphical presentation. The lighting/particle 
 engine used does an excellent job at rendering the Force powers and other effects without any slowdown. 
 There's an impressive physics engine that allows you to grab nearby objects or enemies and hurl 
 them into walls, each other, or clean off the stage if you want. It makes for a simple, inelegant 
 fix that's also fun to watch.
  
  To a slightly greater extent, the sound design of TFU also comes off as uneven. Generally, the 
 voice acting and writing are both very good, but issues with the sound transition from the PS3/360 
 version of the game have caused some bits of dialog to suffer in terms of quality, occasionally 
 sounding as if they were recorded on tape and then transferred into the game. You usually won't 
 run into this, but in some of the later missions you can pick it out more easily. The music is 
 quite good, ranging from classic to new Star Wars fare that generally fits well and punctuates 
 the action effectively, but it often seems to vary in loudness, randomly cutting in at awkward 
 moments during boss battles in a way that sounds somewhat less than flattering.
  
  While there's a healthy amount of extra content in The Force Unleashed, a lot of it comes off as 
 fluff more than anything else. There's the Duel Mode, which allows players to face off as their 
 favorite Jedi or Sith characters from the films and expanded universe, and this is actually pretty 
 enjoyable, offering a nice break from the story if you have a buddy to go head-to-head with. In 
 addition, there are a multitude of hidden costumes, both vanity ones that show you as a character 
 from the series, and canon costumes like the various training gear and Jedi and Sith robes. Oddly 
 enough, there are also cheat codes that fully upgrade all powers, which seemed strange considering 
 having fully mastery of all Force abilities is one of the few real reasons to play the game through 
 a subsequent time.
  
  All told, The Force Unleashed is a decent shot at what the developers were going for, but it misses 
 the mark somewhat in a few key areas. It may not be the dream game many of us were hoping for, 
 but for what it is, it works, and there's not much more than that to be asked. In the end, though, 
 this is probably more of a rent than an actual buy, as there just isn't enough here to totally 
 justify the price; the story will take you about six hours to get through, and the extra content 
 is more or less for show. Regardless, the adequate action, explosive Force powers, and enthralling 
 story are enough to justify playing it through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneralSeris
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2009 11:22 am PT
Review:  In the game you play as Darth Vader's secret apprentice. It has a third person view from behind 
 your caracter. You can use all types of force powers and different lightsaber attacks. I thing 
 there should have been more levels in the game than what they put in, but it still was a good game. 
 It is fun to change the characters skin to make him Han Solo, Obi Wan, Darth Maul, The Emperor, 
 and many others. Some of the levels have somewhat annoying enemies like the force resistant droids 
 on Ruxis Prime, but overall the enemies are not too hard. Also, when you die you pick up very close 
 to where you died thanks to frequent checkpoints on levels, and with the same enemies killed. There 
 are also 2 levels that are only cut scenes. You can use combination attacks with the force also. 
 The simplest force attacks are force push, force lightning, force choke ,and force throw. You can 
 change your lightsaber with different hilts and crystals you find when your in the levels. You 
 also find holocrons in the levels that unlock concept art and also harder to find holocrons that 
 increase the size of your force bar and health bar. If you like Star Wars and like first person 
 action games this is a game you will like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoodstock
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 9:18 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought my Wii I was anticipating the release of Star Wars: The Clone Wars (which ended 
 up really sucking bad by the way) . As I waited this game came out. I debated purchasing it and 
 when I did I was greatly rewarded.
  
  This is simply one of the best games for the Wii. The use of the controls is great and the story 
 line is awesome. I believe the unique Wii controls make this version better to play than the XBox 
 or PS3. 
  
  The lightsaber control that the Clone Wars promised is done way, way, way, better on this game. 
 It follows your motion and is easy to use without having to worry about specific motions for dumb 
 and pointless combos (like on clone wars) . 
  
  The force powers add even more to the game. They are fun to use and tough to master (if you use 
 them all) which is part of the fun of the game. 
  
  Although the game is not extremely long it has replay value because of the fun gameplay and the 
 dual mode.
  
  The only reason I do not give this game a perfect ten is because the dual mode does not have online 
 capability. I hope that if a sequal comes out this is addressed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yuvanw
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 9:17 am PT
Review:  With a five too six hour game, star Wars the Force Unleashed is really fun once you get into it. 
 You will also like to find out both alternate endings, and replay the game with your upgraded force 
 powers from when you first beat it. 
  Duel mode was a superb addition and you will find yourself wanting to unlock all of the characters. 
 it seems flashy, but after a few rounds you get bored of it unless your friend is as good as you.
 
  The story was just as good as you heard it was. with lots of twists and turns you'll be playing 
 this game for as long as you can. Once you finish the game you aren't disappointed because there 
 is an alternate ending and you can replay the game with all of your force power. Not only that, 
 but you can brag about all the cool stuff you do in the force Unleashed. 
  This game isn't perfect though. some of the controls are unresponsive but I recommend you to do 
 all of the tutorials no matter how impatient you are. They will help a lot and I mean it. The combos 
 are cool but you will be struggling to complete them. For the most part they are okay though. This 
 is a must-buy game if you are a star wars gamer and if not and are not familiar with the star wars 
 saga, look for it on the used rack of your local game store.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OGreaper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 1:18 pm PT
Review:  The game has great gameplay as well as great graphics. Its a story that can follow into the original 
 starwars but strays off unto its own. Its an easy story to follow but ending to predictable. Game 
 controls are very easy to understand and you can pick it up within a few min. The graphics are 
 good quality and are appeasing to the eye. The biggest downfall to the game is that it is short 
 lived. I would suggest anyone who may choose to play it take your time. Many extras and other things 
 to unlock (Force powers, Concept art) will keep you going through it untill it is all unlocked. The 
 multi player is just a basic 1v1, Nothing special fun for all of about 2days. Not much re-play value 
 other then the fact to grab the extras (that you can use cheatcodes and see all of them) .
  Overall view Good graphics, good gameplay, easy controls, bad length, lacking multiplayer subtance. 
 Suggestion- Rent First, if after you ebat it in all of 3 days your still entralled in the game 
 go for it and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thunderhorse55
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Pretty good graphics for the wii, and the camera is overlookable, although it can get a little 
 annoying sometimes. But it is so stinking fun! There are increasing ways to take out enemies (which 
 is not as easy as you would think) or you could just use your lightsaber. That gets hard as you 
 progress through the game, however. But the best thing is the boss fights. I don't think I have 
 fought a boss harder than the bosses in this game. And at the end of almost every boss, you have 
 to do a "reflex test." Basically, you just move the nunchuck or remote in any direction whenever 
 it tells you to. But ya, the boss fights are where you will see how much of the force is really 
 with you lol. Fans of starwars (and fans of the dark side) will absolutely LOVE this game! The 
 storyline and caracter development are pretty sweet, although I admit that I am not that far 'cus 
 it's is crazy hard and I just got it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonfalcon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 11:44 am PT
Review:  This is a very fun game to play. The whole thing is so immersive the story is well put together 
 and you really feel like the character. The force powers are awesome and great because you can 
 upgrade them as you please. The story is great and all star wars fans will enjoy the story. The 
 cut scenes may sometimes be a bit mediocre looking but help add to the story. I really love this 
 game a lot but it seemed way to short to me and I wanted it longer. It can get a bit repetitive 
 but using new force powers to annihilate your foes helps to mix things up. Over all this is a great 
 game I just wish it would have been longer, so just rent it and conquer it in a few long sittings 
 and you'll get what u want, instead of buying it and letting it collect dust. It being on the wii 
 is a lot of fun to do. I enjoy shaking my hand for the light saber attack quite a bit, and the 
 force push with nun chuck was really fun too. It gets kind of hard to do after awhile, after playing 
 for 3 or so hours you hands will get tired, so its great for kids that get obsessive as they will 
 only be able to play so much ha ha! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megaship
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2009 12:53 am PT
Review:  The game the Force Unleashed is pretty good as it gives you the freedom of using the Force against 
 many enemies and foes in the game. Although sometimes you can get a little bored of killing everything 
 all the time. The gameplay is great though. You get to move around the Wii controller and pull 
 some cool moves and attack. Although I admit the graphics aren't as good as the PS3 and 360, it's 
 still worth it if you don't really mind the graphics. The only problem sometimes would probably 
 be that the camera control is bad, especially during boss battles where you don't know where your 
 running and the camera is locked on to the boss. The game is awesome in the new Star Wars music 
 and storyline. It explains so much if your curious of what happened in-between episode three and 
 four. Basically it's a great game with a really amazing storyline and amazing gameplay but it has 
 a few flaws. The only thing that really stands out on the Wii version is that you get to duel another 
 friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrinityCat
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 2, 2009 11:28 am PT
Review:  First of all, let me say that i was totally excited when i got this game, i immediately turned 
 on my Wii to play it, and... i was very disappointed, allow me to explain:
  
  The story was OK, short, but if you wanna know what happens, get new characters for the Duel Mode, 
 new costumes, new color crystals for your lightsaber, new saber hilts, it is obvious that you'll 
 need to play the story! 
  
  The gameplay is very frustrating and hard to get used to, and even if you get better, your lightsaber 
 attacks won't always respond like you want. Force powers are pretty fun to use, but there will 
 be times when it'll be kinda frustrating too. Camera is just terrible, and thanks to it, you might 
 die a few times or might get hurt A LOT.
  
  The graphics are so-so. When your playing, it looks nice but the cutscenes are just disappointing. 
 Voice acting was good. 
  
  Overall, this version is mostly for Star Wars fans that only owns a Wii. Non-fans might give it 
 a try but it is a possibility that Non-fans will dislike this version. Rent it first. This version 
 is not bad but i think that the X360, PSP and PS3 versions are better due to better gameplay and 
 graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dlarrain
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2009 8:42 am PT
Review:  Perhaps this game is not so long as other great games and it don't have many extras and a high 
 quality competitive mode but the way that you play, the new story from the never-ending franchise 
 "Star Wars", the amazing special effects, the addictive game-play and the great stages and bosses 
 makes a game that you cannot miss even if you are not a fan.
  "Game Spot" cannot review all the games that comes out fairly, for example this game, the Wii version 
 is far better than the other ones but "Game Spot" critic it worst than the others. Don't always 
 take the "Game Spot" score like an official one, this game is really good, more than bad games 
 that are scored very well only because their are from X-box 360, is not just.
  On this game you can be the apprentice of Lord Vader, so this story takes place in one of the better 
 examples of the fight of light and darkness, also this game has 2 endings, one that explains the 
 things that really happened and the other one that is created only for this game, it don't take 
 care of the main topic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taylorak123
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 30, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  I got this for Christmas and immediately (ignore my spelling plz) started playing it. at first i 
 thought, Wow!, woah!, cool! but then i realized that this game was not all it was cracked up to 
 be. the lightsaber action was kinda cool, but any ammount of flailing around by a deranged monkey 
 could beat the first level. i also felt that i couldn't control my "camera" and my fighiting style 
 suffered. That may be because im used to a joystick or mouse to instantly snap to a direction. 
 you have to turn in a direction in order to look there, and in a scene where I had to jump from 
 pedestal to pedestal i took me like 5 minutes including all of the missed jumps. not bad overall, 
 i still love it, it just seemed a bit like lucas arts tried to make everybody and his mother buy 
 the thing by exaggerating the "amazing" wii-Lightsaber action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tubacw
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  First of all, if you are a star wars fan, buy this game! You will have a blast using the force 
 to destroy the enemy. The boss battles are epic and exciting but are not overly difficult. The 
 interactive cut scenes are a great way to end the battle. The fights in the movies have great endings 
 so it makes great sense for the game to have great endings too. The added levels in the Wii version 
 are fun and add more exciting content to the game. The motion controls get a little repetitive 
 but once you get used to them it will come as second nature. Now for the problems. I've already 
 mentioned the motion controls but the camera is the real problem. The camera is slow to turn around 
 to follow the character and there is no way to move the camera around. This can be frustrating 
 and it takes away from an otherwise pretty good game. The story is deep and powerful and fits perfectly 
 into the Star Wars universe. The only other problem I have is that the cutscenes that take place 
 in space look like they were done on the N64. It seems like they could have done a lot better with 
 those scenes to give the game a more polished feel. The many costumes, lightsaber and force power 
 customizations give the player plenty of options of how they want to play the game. In conclusion, 
 even though this game does have its problems, it is still a lot of fun and should be picked up 
 by Star Wars fans and action fans alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrammyGaming
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  First, I would like to ask: AHEM... Why did Gamespot give this game a 6.0? There isn't that much 
 wrong with this game. Sure, there are moments of tediousity and frustration, but other than that 
 this game kicks @$$. 
  
  You play as Star Killer, Darth Vader's new apprentice. He is equipped with moves and powers that 
 Dark Jedis could never do in the movies. Some of them are the Force push, which does alot of damage, 
 especially useful for a large group of enemies. You can also customize your lightsaber so it can 
 be a huge variety of different colors. There is a ton of variety in this game.
  
  The graphics and sound in this game are spectacular. They are so realistic, even for a Wii game. 
 This game really proved that the Wii is far more capable than what it's given credit for.
  
  However, there are some bad points of the game, most of which take place during the boss battles. 
 First, the scenes where you have to fit your remote and numchuck into the molds on the screen can 
 be very frustrating, especially when if you fail, the enemy will gain some of his health back.
 
  
  But who cares, just use your force lightning and you'll be fine. Anyways, I think this game is 
 way better than a 6.0. And that's all I have to say. good day to you all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2009 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed has gotten the series into darker territory than episode III. The 
 story starts as the Galactic Empire is in a war with the Wookiees on Kasshyk and Darth Vader lands 
 on the planet's surface. He strikes through the defending Wookies and sees a Rogue Jedi Knight 
 still alive even after the Jedi Massacre in episode III. Vader then senses a small child behind 
 him. The stormtroopers ask if they can kill the kid, but Vader kills them instead. Years later, 
 the kid grows up into Darth Vader's apprentice and was assigned a mission to kill a living Remnant 
 Jedi named Rahm Kota. But he also has another objective, he cannot let the Stormtroopers live while 
 he's around.
  
  What I liked about this game is that the Lightsaber play is better than Lego Star Wars: The Complete 
 Saga's. Awesome force powers. A fighting game like multiplayer mode, like how The Clone Wars Lightsaber 
 Duels ran. Customizable lightsabers like in Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy. Solid graphics. Awesome 
 destructible enviromnents. An immersive story.
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that the graphics aren't great, despite them being solid.
 
  
  Overall, Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is a very underappreciated experiences on the Wii. Great 
 lightsaber play, awesome force powers and an immersive story make it all worthwhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockerking9
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 14, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  When I rented this game, I was like omigosh omigosh omigosh I finally am able to rent this game. 
 Then I got it and at first I played as Darth Vader and was manhandling Wookies. Until I got to 
 the near end levels I couldn't wait to get home and play it. Eventually, it got so repetive and 
 annoying that I had to quit and work on some different stuff. The story of this game was amazing 
 and if you have read some of my other reviews you know that I base my main points off of story 
 and plot line. The gameplay was pretty good, but I continually kept forgetting special moves so 
 I just used the lightsaber. I did not like how between missions you could not run around the Rogue 
 Shadow. All in all though guess I could recommend it for a Star Wars lover, but that is all the 
 people I really think that would enjoy this game fully. This is the reason I gave it that kind 
 of classification and score I gave it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LolBeaver
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 26, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars The Force Unleashed was an alright game, nothing more nothing less. I thought this game 
 would be alot better then it actualy was. The dueling thing was alright but it has been done before 
 many of times. The story I played about 1/4 of the way because it got really boring. The force 
 powers were cool and so were the costumes that you could change, and also the fact that you can 
 customize your lightsaber. I think that people should rent this game but you probably should'nt 
 buy it. Unless it goes out on sale for like $20.00 I might buy it... but I probably wouldnt. I can't 
 say much more about this game because I don't like it but i've heard from a few friends that have 
 played it and say that they love it, which is why you should rent it. (Note this is my first review 
 so if it is'nt amazing I'm sorry) =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_OmegaHunter
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Starwars: The Force Unleashed 
  
  Sound: nothing much new, if you watch starwars you'll have heard it all before. Not that it's a 
 bad thing I love starwars and all of its music.
  
  Gameplay: this is where the game disappointed me, sure you have force powers but after watching 
 all the trailers and interviews I thought that your force powers would be way over the top. There 
 still cool to experiment with and you can upgrade them to make them slightly more powerful. In 
 the game you play the role of Darth Vader's secret apprentice as you hunt down the remaining jedi 
 that survived order 66. This story is probably one of the best I've played through. You'll go on 
 missions to many different alien worlds, but I felt that the levels can get repetitive you just 
 want to get through them to find out what happens next. There are lots of extras and force powers 
 to unlock however.
  
  Graphics: the cut scenes are terrible but the in game graphics are not to bad.
  
  Overall: 
 I wanted this game to be awesome so badly but... its not. I cant say I'd recommend it to anyone 
 but starwars fans... : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerTron0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars, it's probely one of the biggest things ever made. 6 movies, a new TV show , toys, and 
 of couse video games. For the last year or so star wars games have been shallow and dull. Its either 
 the shooter or the story is not good enough for star wars, but it's all over cause the force unleashed 
 is hear and it delivers. The story is focused between episodes 3 and 4 a time that has not been 
 coverd enough. Kashyyk is under attack by the empire and Darth Vader sences a great amount of the 
 force on the planet. He finds the jedi but finds out it's not him who has the strong power, Vader 
 see's a child and knows he's the won who he senced, he takes as his secret son. So your star-killer 
 the secret apprentice, your job is to hunt down the re-maining jedi across the galaxy. The story 
 is really good and keeps you entertained all throughout the game. Let's talk about gameplay now, 
 you have all these cool force powers at your disposal, like force lighting, force lift, force, 
 throw, force smash, and others. Levels are long at good pace so you wont be doing something for 
 3 mins and then its over. You swing the wii-mote in any direction and it will do the same attack 
 which is kinada disappointing. If you dont the red light-saber you can use a green or blue light-saber 
 or colors that are available. In levels you hack and slah your way to the end of a level and you 
 use force powers. The graphics are not best for wii sadly, you can what you are looking at but 
 some blury textures and dull game modles are not amazing. The sound effects and music is right 
 where it should be, all the music from begining to end is good like any star wars game and the 
 sound effects are classic star wars sounds. One really cool thing is that when you turn your light-saber 
 on or off or when you swing it, the wii-mote makes light-sabers sounds to make it feel like your 
 holding one. Playing this game is fun and there are levels that you would want to re-peat so Star 
 Wars the Foce Unleashed for the Nintendo Wii is a good game that wii owners should buy.
  
  Story: 9.4
  Gameplay: 8.9
  Graphics: 7.5
  Controls: 8.3
  Re-Play Value: 8.6
  Overall: 
 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lorddractar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  I personally think that this game is more for younger kids from ages 10-12 at most. I found it 
 amusing that when you used force push there would be lots and lots of rag doll. I admit when I 
 was "into" this game I looked for a game FAQ to find all of the horcolms in the end i gave up and 
 went back to fable 2 (my personal favorite game) when I first played this game (in the first level) 
 I thought that you would always have to be Darth Vader with his slow movement later I found that 
 no after the first level you start as an apprentice. IN the end of the game you can either choose 
 the good or evil ending I first did the good ending but then did the evil one. In the Duel mode 
 I think that you should not be playing it the duel mode itself I would rate it 2.5/10. I think 
 that it is LARGE waste of time. In the end of things I would definitely rate this game 7.5/10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediXMan7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  First of all, the story is great and interesting. Using the Force Push and Lightning, and combining 
 the two for truly explosive effects is always cool! The boss fights are good. Hurling Stormtroopers 
 into the air with a massive Force Push is great.
  
  The Wii does a pretty good job of making it all feel real. Thrusting forward the Nunchuk to use 
 Force Push is great! It actually feels real, and gives you a sense of power. 
  
  But the Wii Remote controls don't do as well as it should. Sure, using the Wii Remote to use a 
 Lightsaber sounds like a great idea. But it needs improvement. I'll try to slash my blade up, and 
 it'll stab. In fact, it'll stab a lot when it shouldn't. Doing combos requiring three different 
 attacks is hard when two out of three of those are stabs. So you'll screw up Lightsaber combos 
 a lot in the beginning  and even beyond that.
  
  But honestly, the game is called the "Force Unleashed." Not "Lightsaber Unleashed." This game was 
 never meant to be a Lightsaber fighting game. Nope. This game is meant to make you feel extremely 
 powerful, and allow you to use the full power of the Force. In that category, this game delivers!
 
  
  But my biggest complaint: I beat it within five days of its release. I would have beaten it in 
 half that time, but two days after I got it (I was 90% through) , I accidentally erased my game 
 and had to start all over.
  
  I want a long game. I want to be playing it for months before finally beating it, or at least a 
 couple of weeks.
  
  And while the story is great, it doesn't show as well on the Wii. Many things don't make sense. 
 I won't give spoilers, but they don't reveal as much as they should have  this coming from a man 
 who's read the novel version of the game.
  
  I shouldn't expect great graphics. But I should expect better graphics. Look at Mario Galaxy, even 
 SSBB! They had better graphics, at least in the cut-scenes. But when this game had that they didn't 
 was the realistic Force effects. Using Force Push and having it blow debris and destroy everything 
 in its path is fantastic. 
  
  So, thanks to the fantastic Force powers, this game earns an 8.5 / 10 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Negative7000
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  Here is the problem with this game. The gameplay isn't solid. Some combos make you feel like your 
 playing Star Wars, and some make you feel like your playing Dragon Ball Z. Now Dragon Ball Z is 
 fun, but for this long-awaited game we don't want to play Dragon Ball Z right? Next there's graphics. 
 I know that we doesn't have the graphic potential that PS3 and Xbox 360 have, but come on! I know 
 they could have made them better than this! For good Wii graphics take Super Smash Bros Brawl and 
 Metroid Prime 3 Corruption. The graphics only made the gameplay worse too. Obviously, this game 
 wouldn't even be rated a 7.0 if this is all I had to say about it. Let me tell you the good parts 
 of this game. The characters had depth to them and were unique; and the story is solid. For those 
 of you who read this, don't let it stop you from buying or renting the game. There is stuff on 
 here that won't disappoint. Overall, yeah 7/10, an okay game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiiwillrocku360
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  It's what every Star Wars fan has been waiting for, a virtual light saber swinging Star Wars game. 
 True its graphics may be on the lower edge but it has its own element of gameplay that make it 
 special. It has everything the other versions the PS3 and 360 don't have. It's motion control is 
 easy to get used to instead of the other versions button mashing and all that but the other versions 
 are still great. Now I just wanna mention that I hate the graphics, just HATE them. That's why 
 I'm planning to rent or get the XBox version of the game too. The game deserves a B because of 
 the easy to get used to controls and the virtual light saber swinging action and force pushing 
 every Star Wars geek wants. So if you have a Wii and you're a Star Wars fan and want cutting edge 
 gameplay and don't care that much about graphics, this game has YOUR name written all over it!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigbudd0045
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game. I am a huge Star Wars fan, though I am the first to admit that the prequels 
 are entertaining for their F/X but cannot hold a candle to the original trilogy. This game does 
 a fantastic job of making you feel like a bad ass. The force powers work well enough, though I 
 think it would just have easily benefited from the option of using a standard GC controller. The 
 light saber combat was only OK. It never felt like the bad ass weapon we all think it should be. 
 The games graphics at times look great, and at other times they look like a mediocre PS2 game. 
 The music shines and its a fun play through. I wont ruin the game for anyone, but you ll breeze 
 through it so rent it. I don't see much in the way of replay value and a lot of the force combos 
 are a pain to use so i just used force push, lightning grenade, detonate, and force lightning, 
 that will easily get you through the game. Overall all i was disappointed it wasn't better but 
 i still enjoyed it, glad i only rented it full price would have hurt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rami_keyblade
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  First if you are a star wars fan play this game no matter what the score is, it has some great 
 moments that all fans need to see. My first complaint is lack of polish. The camera is ok, but 
 at moments really made me want to quit playing. When dueling boss's its sometimes so bad that it 
 felt incomplete. Second complaint are the graphics. On the first level it seems pretty good, an 
 improvement over Episode III for the ps2, but some levels are ugly. If you've seen Resident Evil 
 4, Brawl, Galaxy, MP3, you know what i mean. RS4 looks like it can go head to head with any ps3,360 
 game, so theres no excuse for the blurry textures and ugly 3d models. If the whole game looked 
 like the opening level I would have been satisfied. My 3rd complaint is about the length of the 
 game. It is really short, and after all those videos on the making of, trailers, basically the 
 hype they put in the length is unacceptable.4rth the controls. The lightsaber controls are really 
 fun, but they should have had different directions do different types of damage-I don't mean animations.
 
  
  
  
  
  Over-all:
  graphics 6.5/10
  controls 9/10
  gameplay 8/10
  story /10
  voice acting 6/10
  
  7.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursed_Shadow
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2008 2:30 am PT
Review:  The Force Unleashed is a game set in the Star Wars era between the 'unknown time', between the 
 3rd movie (revenge of the Sith) and the 4th movie (A New Hope) . You are Starkiller, Darth Vader's 
 secret apprentice who is set out to eliminate the remaining jedi scattered throughout the galaxy. 
 As the title implies, you have seemingly unlimited force powers at your disposal, along with a 
 jedi's favorite weapon, a lightsaber, to destroy any resistance you encounter on your journey.
 
  
  Gameplay: The game is very enjoyable, as by swinging you wii-mote allows you to cut up any enemy 
 in your path, with the nunchuck controlling the way you move and several force powers. While the 
 game is criticised for it's short story (taking no longer than 8-10 hours) , it is a very enjoyable 
 story with a deep plot which is agrued to be better than some of the star wars movies! Due to this, 
 the game is rather addictive as you want to continue the story, or just continue wreaking havoc 
 on a new planet.
  
  Controls: The controls for this game have both positives and negatives. The wii-mote controls the 
 lightsaber movements, and the nunchuck walking/running options and a few force powers. Together 
 with a combination of button pressing more force powers are open to the user. The swing on the 
 lightsaber is deemed more sensitive than the sword options in 'Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess', 
 meaning it is responsive and different depending on your movements with the wii-mote. The nunchuck 
 is found with a few users to cause some troubles. While usually very responsive, sometimes very 
 light movements may cause you to do an unwanted force push attack - no biggie, but still can annoy 
 users. Also, at the end of the game during a 'force lock' where the nunchuck has to be moved into 
 a certain position and thrusted upwards can also be broken and have the user screaming that they 
 performed the action, but was unread by the console.
  
  Graphics: In my opinion this game looks like one of the better games i have seen played on the 
 wii. While there are some odd corridors which are pitch black and are left jumping like crazy trying 
 to get out of, the colours are suitable. The physics are performed fluently and the game doesnt 
 have to stop for a moment to 'catch up' with your actions.
  
  Sound: This game offers some differing sounds, which to me havent gotten repeditive or annoying 
 in my hours of gameplay. While you do hear some of the well-known star wars themes, they are often 
 played quietly, often drowned out by the sound of a clone trooper calling for back-up, or you destroying 
 a statue of some form with the force. The crunching sound made by picking up some objects can get 
 a little annoying, but nothing you will pull your hair out for.
  The voices of the characters is also very well done in my opinion and are generally fluent with 
 the characters mouth movement which is nice.
  
  Value: While this game's story gives you an 8 or so hour 'fix', it may not offer too much replayability, 
 as after beating the game you are given the option of starting the game again with all the force 
 powers you currently have. The only positive of replaying the game is finding hidden Jedi Holocrons 
 (pictures) , lightsaber hilts and crystals to alter your lightsaber to suit your interests, and 
 finally because of the two alternate endings.
  While the Wii does have the option of multiplayer, the camera angles may get on peoples nerves 
 and is usually over quite quickly. It may interest some players for the characters on offer (and 
 there is a lot) , but all characters are reasonably even, so multiplayer may get bring - fast.
 
  
  All in all: For me I have enjoyed the game, i like the idea of cutting up wookies and the like 
 with my lightsaber, choking enemies, screaming 'UNLIMITED POWER!' like Sidious when i cast a double-handed 
 force lightning and throwing huge boulders at clone troopers. While it may not always keep you 
 coming back as it could be seen as rather repeative, it is a fun game in my opinion, worth playing 
 at the least.
  
  Despite the short story, sometimes a frustrating, unchangable camera angle I do reccomend this 
 game, particularly to people who enjoy star wars. However, those looking for a game where they 
 can cut the s**t out of a walking carpet may also find themselves having lots of fun
  
  The Good: Deep plot line, usually good controls, many force powers and combonations at your disposal 
 which can be executed with relative ease.
  The Bad: Sometimes frustrating camera angle which automatically adjusts may bother some players, 
 repeditive gameplay, and the inability to chose which level you want to play once the game is beaten 
 - must replay the entire game again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultimate_Hero
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 30, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars the Force Unleashed is the first real (non-lego) star wars game to come to the Wii. The 
 game is set around Darth Vadars secret apprentice. The game follows him as he goes on few missions 
 that he does so that he can one day defeat the Emporer.
  
  The Good: The game uses the wiimote as the lightsaber and you must use it to slah and hack your 
 enemies. The Nunchuck is used to control the force in the game. The game offers a multitude of 
 costumes such as favorite characters from the classic movies. Customize your lightsaber by changing 
 its color and power.
  
  The Bad: Nearly everything. The game was to short. It took me sixx hours to beat. To easy. Everything 
 was just way to easy. I could beat at least four levels without dieing. Also very crappy. The gameplay 
 was really boring. Hack, slash, force, hack, slash, force. That's all it was the entire game. 
 
  
  The game I gave a 6.0 because I am a Star Wars fan. The game I expected to be much better. I was 
 truly dissapointed in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charizard1605
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  Star Wars is a pop cultural phenomenon. The Wii is a pop culture phenomenon. Their meeting was 
 almost inevitable.
  
  What else made it inevitable, you ask? I'll tell you what: it was the fact that Star Wars is primaraly 
 sword combat based, which of course makes it ideal for the Wii, with its swing happy motion sensing 
 Wiimote. And so, it probably comes as little surprise that apart from maybe Super Smash Bros, Star 
 Wars: The Force Unleashed was the most anticipated title on the Wii this year.
  
  I've spent a lot of time with it. I read Gamespot's reviews for all the three systems, and decided 
 to go with the Wii version anyway. And now, after having thoroughly finished the game, and after 
 having feasted myself silly over the game's gorgeous visuals and a story that is definitely worthy 
 of another Star Wars movie, I must say that never before have Gamespot been as mistaken as this 
 time around. The Force Unleashed isn't just good... it's bloody brilliant, and, dare I say it, 
 the best story based title on the system at the moment (the qualifier 'story based' automatically 
 excludes games like Super Smash Bros from my generalisation) .
  
  To those who didn't already know, Star Wars: The Force Unleashed forms a story bridge between Star 
 Wars: Episode III and Episode IV, and effectively sets up the stage for the events in Episodes 
 IV through VI. Without giving too much of the best story in a game I've come across for a long 
 time, the story tells us about Galen Marek, the abandoned son of one of the exterminated Jedi, 
 who's given the title of Starkiller by Darth Vader. Darth Vader appoints Starkiller as his apprentice 
 in secret, and trains him in the ways of the Force, so that he may use his help in overthrowing 
 the Emperor. The story moves swiftly towards a very exciting climax, and ultimately ends at a crossroads 
 of sorts, from where the story could go anywhere... of course, it's a whole different matter altogether 
 that we already know what happens next.
  
  However, the story aside, people were truly looking forward to this game for one thing, and one 
 thing only: the gameplay, which would employ the motion sensing controls of the Wiimote. This was 
 what everybody had been looking forward to since the Wii had been announced, the ability to swing 
 your Wiimote and see the corresponding Jedi character on the screen move his light saber as well. 
 The wait was truly worth it, because the motion controls are employed to near perfection in The 
 Force Unleashed. There will, of course, be moments when you might begin to wonder if the repititiveness 
 of just swinging the Wiimote around might not set in, but you forget about it as soon as you slice 
 some more droids. This is the Wiimote employed to absolute perfection, and every developer for 
 the system, first and third party, should sit up and take notice of how it's done.
  
  Of course, we also have to talk about what many might argue is the bane of all games on the Wii: 
 the graphics. Prepared to be stunned when you turn your game on, because the most realistic graphics 
 seen yet in a Star Wars game suck you into this interactive universe that few other Wii games can 
 do. There are a few bugs... the graphics aren't perfect, and there is a distinct lack of what we 
 might call sheen in many places... but ultimately, the graphics do their part well, which is presenting 
 the marvellous story in an unforgettable way.
  
  And then there is the sound. An extremely foolproof way of making sure the game has great sound 
 is to simply use the soundtrack of the movies, and that is done here, and the result is that often, 
 we feel we are truly in the movie, rather than just playing the game. Coupled with the great graphics, 
 the intense soundtrack will blur the line of distinction between games and movies.
  
  The critical response to the Wii version of The Force Unleashed has been lukewarm at best. But 
 to me, this game represents the pinnacle of Wii-gaming. Arguably one of the best titles out on 
 the system yet, the Wii version might also well be the best version of TFU out on the maarket yet. 
 This is because the great graphics and brooding soundtrack, coupled with the extra interactivity 
 that the Wiimote controls throw in, make this game the best movie based gaming experience ever, 
 a feat that simply cannot be matched by mashing buttons on a controller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baltron
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Powerful force use. Fast paced, full of action and yet strategic in the combat options and power 
 upgrades.
  Difficulty just right - not too much so you wanna quit, not too little you loose interest.
  Controls 
 excelent, responsive, really feels like a jedi/sith combat, the sensation of playing is that you 
 wield tremendous power!
  Camera view slow to follow the action, could be better.
  Lacks the option of combat vs. AI in the duel option (you need a second person and second control 
 for the duel mode) . 
  The landscapes are vast and varied and the enemies also.
  Giant opponents, challenging bosses and intense lightsaber/force duels.
  Its really absorbing; 
 makes you want for more.
  An advice: train and master basic force skills since from the beggining - they really make a difference.
 
  I`m quite satisfied! Really worth the money.
  Must have for any star wars fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ckern1285
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  The only disappointing thing about this game on the Wii is all of the horrible reviews it has received. 
 Coming from an avid, experienced gamer; I have never played a game so enthralling or so intuitive.
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Obviously, the graphics are not as good as the PS3 and 360 versions of this game. Camera control 
 is awkward, and it requires a little bit of patience to master. Game play transitions are smooth, 
 even with dozens of stormtroopers on screen trying to smoke you. Environments are superbly done, 
 with plenty of objects to decimate and include in battles. 
  
  Sound:
  
  With the system that we were using to "immerse" ourselves in the game, the sound, admittedly, could 
 have been better. You no doubt can here stormtroopers running up behind you, and Tie Fighters flying 
 overhead and around you. It seems like somewhere in the equalization process, or maybe in the conversion 
 of audio formats, something went horribly awry. The dialogue takes the worst hit. Even on lower 
 volumes you can hear what sounds like the audio "clipping". 
  
  Controls:
  
  The controls are what makes this game come to life. You can debate about visuals and what makes 
 a game "realistic" all day long. Raising your left hand while holding your Z button in rage, and 
 flailing your Wii-mote with your right hand as if actually throwing your lightsaber says a lot 
 more to me about "realism" than graphics ever can. The controls bring this game to life. Anyone 
 that can't agree with that (mainly Game Informer) need to sit down with me.
  
  Story:
  
  For Star Wars fans, and non-fans alike, this story is absolutely amazing. With plenty of twists 
 and turns in the plot, you will be guessing what is going to happen to our ultimate bad-a** until 
 the very end of the game. When the ending roles around, the story is complete, and it fits right 
 in with the rest of the series. 
  
  Bottom Line:
  
  This game is a must have for Nintendo Wii owners. The incredible capabilities of the Wii coupled 
 with the ultimate power of the Force leaves you with a game you can play over and over again. And 
 you will want to play it over and over again. The story is short, which makes for a quick game, 
 but the option of starting over with all your powers after you beat the game seems a rarity these 
 days. Buy this game, it will make you happy to own a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BonezRevolution
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  The Force Unleashed is the perfect game for Star Wars fans! You get to utilise the power of the 
 force at your own will, and control your lightsaber with the Wii remote!
  
  The graphics could be better, that can't be denied, but the gameplay more than makes up for that. 
 The interactivity with the Wii remote is wonderful and simple, the LIghtsaber swings in the direction 
 of the remote. Using the force is also a great experience, push the nunchuck to force push and 
 use the control stick to control where you throw objects or enemies.
  
  All of these wonderful gameplay features coupled with a great storyline, involving you as Darth 
 Vaders secret apprentice plotting to overule the emperor, make for a perfect Star Wars game.
  
  Yet again another game that I can't imagine ever wanting to play on another console, the Wii 
 features really let you sink into the game.
  
  The only negative thing I can really say is, if you die, you just return to the level a bit further 
 back and all you have to do is run back to where you were before you confront any enemies 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rietveldjr
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I. ve never beat a game in less than 20 hrs. This game is all hype and no substance. It gives you 
 a good taste and by the time you are ready for another bite it is all gone leaving you unsatisfied 
 and hungry for more. Don't get me wrong I had fun playing the game but this title is definitely 
 a rent not a buy. The graphics are good for the Wii. The story is interesting although it could 
 use more depth. The actions taken by the main character are weak and the motivations behind them 
 are even less defined. The story has a beginning and an end and starts out running towards the 
 end at a brake neck pace and does not letup to allow you stop take a look and smell the bantha 
 fooder. There is no internal turmoil with the main character as there should be with a star wars 
 game until the very end when he abruptly changes his mined, fights a futile battle and dies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendoGamer3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so, I rented this game from GameFly. And enjoyed it very much so. Lets start with the up's 
 and down's.
  
  
  THE GOOD:
  Graphics are pretty good. At least for the main character.
  -
  Controlls seem right.
  -
 
  Amazing story.
  -
  Boss battles are fun.
  -
  Best Star Wars game I've ever played.
  -
  Funny at times.
  -
  Choking people as Darth Vader is fun.
  -
  Using the force, and 
 zapping people seems just right.
  -
  Motion conrolls are solid.
  -
  If you know the cheats, it makes the game so much better.
  -
  Lots of different Light Saber 
 colors you can use. (Did I spell Saber right? O_O)
  -
  You really need to look around and re-trace your steps to find secrets in the game.
  -
  The 
 main characters facial expressions are good. (Like.. eyebrows move.. eyes move around. I've never 
 seen that in any Wii game yet)
  
  
  THE BAD:
  Short. I beat it in 4 hours. 
  -
  Bad replay vaule.
  -
  Multiplayer is dull.
  -
  All the graphics seemed to be focused on 
 the main character. Everything else was sorta bad.
  
  
  
  This is a great game for any Star Wars fan. Not sure if anyone sould buy this. Cause once you beat 
 it. You'll probably never touch it again.
  I hope you liked my review.
  If you didn't. Tell me! I don't mind. :D 
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masta_Jedi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw trailers of this game, i was very excited about getting it, and when it finally 
 came out, i noticed it wasn't going to be a whole lot like the trailers if i played it on the Wii.. 
 The graphics were a big let-down, but they didn't keep me from playing this game. Even with its 
 mediocre graphics the game was great, the story is absolutely awesome and even though it was short, 
 i enjoyed every minute of it. The force powers look and feel great, i love the way they incorporated 
 the wii's motion sensing ability in this one, they really nailed the controls. It might take some 
 getting used to, and lightsaber combos can be hard to make, but its still pretty good.
  The Duel mode is awesome as well, as you play through the single player campaign you unlock so 
 many great characters to use. They are almost all from the movies, and don't even appear anywhere 
 in the game, and it's great that they got their own little place in this.
  Anyway, as i said before the story is short, but there are lots of extras along the way, like finding 
 holocrons (gallery pictures) , lightsaber crystals (of different colours) and even lightsaber hilts.
 
  Overall, this was worth playing. I enjoyed it, and the way it's tied in between the movies 3 and 
 4 is great. Well, actually that depends a bit, because there is an alternate ending that kind of 
 makes no sense when you try to link it to episode 4.. or maybe i just couldnt figure it out yet 
 haha. Well anyway if you are a star wars fan, definitely give this one a shot, but if you can afford 
 to play in other versions, like the Xbox 360 or PS3 versions, i recommend it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrozs1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  this one of the best action games on the wii but it is short and dont think u will be playing i 
 n for hours and hours a day and dont play when you have growing pains trust me it hurts after like 
 30 mins but dont get me wrong the game is great i love it there is so much to go back and get and 
 maxing your powers is so fun and if you go back to old levels you really see how power ful you 
 are. this is the game that fills in the gaps its great and the boss battles are so fun the quy 
 in the review said they where bad but i can tell you that they are one of the best thing in the 
 game but light saber movement is not as good as you thing it would be it works and its fun but 
 it does get tyering now the force powers they are sooooooo good i and a big star wars fan but i 
 never in the world though force could be so power full. the camera is bad but i have learnt just 
 try to stay in the middle of the path and should not have problems but this guy in the review only 
 really says the bad things on game but here are the good thing the maps are very good and the charters 
 are not bad as well oh just remebered if your near a edge never use force run or what ever its 
 called never use it when ever i did i always fell off now where was i yer umm the level are sooo 
 good but this is the problem in the junk yard planet the jumping over platforms if you dont time 
 it right you will always fall off
  
  oh have fun with the game and be a sith its more fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samael_Alastor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 12:35 am PT
Review:  When you see "Star Wars" in the title of a video game, you expect something really serious. Well, 
 with this one you got it. The Wii version increases the experience with its controls: Swing your 
 saberlight or push your enemies with the Force of a true Jedi (or Sith??) . The story fixes perfectly 
 with the Star Wars Universe, and the battles against major enemies are interesting (Big bosses 
 or Jedi/Sith Duels) . Finally, the Duel Mode are cool, (the battles can be short, but it doesn't 
 matter too much) , here you can find classic characters like Darth Maul, Obi Wan Kenobi, Luke Skywalker, 
 etc.
  
  High quality graphics?, amazing sound? nah. These are weak points of this game. When you see it 
 you'll know what I'm talking about.
  
  Bad news: Jar Jar Binks doen't appear in this game (if you would like to KILL him, please keep 
 waiting)
  
  Just try it.
  
  PD: I'm not a freak fan of the Star Wars Series...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidSnake886
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  So, I just couldn't resist. Bought the game on release day (at BestBuy) and now have played through 
 a bunch of missions. The good:
  
  The concept of the game is fantastic -- who doesn't love running around with a lightsaber and force 
 pushing stormtroopers?
  The graphics are more than adequate -- I'm sure not as good at the 360/PS3 but the game still looks 
 pretty darn good.
  The purchasing of new force powers with force points works well.
  The story line is very good, as is the voice acting.
  The actual control motions are well thought 
 out, and pretty natural.
  
  The problem is that the mechanics just aren't there.
  The big problems with the game are:
  
  1. Too easy -- there's really no consequence to dying. 
 You just are resurrected and go about your merry way.
  2. The camera -- I think that the camera angles are what really hinder the game. This game would 
 be ideal from a first person perspective, but is played entirely in the third person. As a result, 
 the camera angles are critical, and LucasArts' coding is just not up to snuff. The camera often 
 looks in directions you don't want, especially in tight spaces and with lots of enemies. Also, 
 since the commands/combos are all dependent on moving the Wiimote/Nunchuck in a particular direction 
 IN RELATION TO YOUR CHARACTER the controls become confusing when the camera is not oriented over 
 your shoulder. If you're fighting a boss it's not a big issue as you can lock the camera on your 
 target. This doesn't really apply in a room full of stormtroopers, though.
  3. Saving - the game saves as you go past checkpoints (ala Halo, and most other FPS games) , but 
 when you come back (after turning off the Wii) you start back at the beginning of the chapter as 
 opposed to at the last checkpoint that you encountered. I fail to see the point of the checkpoint 
 system. Further, it makes it difficult to pick up and play for a half hour -- you really want to 
 continue until you're done with the chapter.
  
  As a result you wind up with a beautiful looking, intuitive game with a great storyline that's 
 just more difficult to play than it should be.
  
  Save your $$ -- rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noupa
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed
  
  A terrific storyline right out of the Lucas Universe, sadly one of the three main things going 
 for it including some crafty graphics and neat bending metal. Those are really the only things 
 going for it since everything else you can find if you go take a look at Jedi Force Battles and 
 the Jedi Outcast series. I was not impressed when I discovered that the majority of boss fights 
 relied on me clicking the right buttons as they were displayed flashing over the bosses head. Yes 
 the game had a great story that was all that kept me playing through the less than inspired levels 
 full of simple enemies with even simpler ai's. The graphics were nice but honestly who the hell 
 cares if your fighting a hoard of marionettes. The bending metal was cool but how long can you 
 spend bending doors into happy faces really?
  You have to be seriously sheltered to consider this anything above a 6. If they wanted to make 
 it a better game they should have made it a little more realistic and less arcadey. Oh yeah and 
 the score was good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason2guy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  Star Wars The Force Unleashed brought in a whole new way in lightsaber dueling. You first start 
 as Darth vader who happens to land on Kashyykk and hunt down the one and only wookies. He finds 
 a jedi who happens to have a son with him, the force is strong with this one. Darth Vader takes 
 the boy back into his base to train him to become the one and only secret apprentice. So that is 
 how the story begins.. Star Wars The Force Unleashed for the Wii has awesome innovative lightsaber 
 attacks with a swing of the Wii remote. There are 5 ways you can hit, left, right, up down, and defend. 
 The graphics in this game are okay, and the Euphoria like effect does an awesome job to make you 
 feel like your in a Star Wars Universe. There is also a duels mode which is exclusive to the Wii. 
 The duel mode allows you to play from Darth Vader to Obi Wan Kenobi. There are 9 maps to play from 
 like Kashyykk, on the duel it allows you to get special upgrades, which include unlimited force 
 for a limited amount of time and Invisbility. Overall I thought the duel mode was pretty good but 
 could've put mroe time to it, because I saw a few glitches where when the lightsabers hitted against 
 each other, it was around 7 cms apart. The lightsaber attacks weren't satisfying as I thought it 
 would be, but it was decent. The story mode, was pretty good too but when ever you impale someone 
 with a lightsaber, they fall at the same direction, which seemed quite repetitve. The part that 
 I LOVED was when you saw innocent human walking on the streets, you were ACTUALLY allowed to hit 
 them with all your might, and to me it seemed to be a Grand Theft Auto in a Star Wars Universe 
 which impreesed me. The game has a lot of varied enemies, from beasts to stormtroopers. The special 
 moves in this game are great but can get repetitve. 
  
  Good: Force Powers with a Wii remote is plain awesome. Varied Enemies. Exclusive Duel Mode. Satisfying 
 force blows and explosions. Custumizable lightsaber color. Able to Change clothing. Graphics are 
 good for a Wii game.
  
  Bad: Story mode is WAY too short. Can get repetitive. Could've add more maps on duel mode. 
  
 
  Overall: 8.7 = Great Lightsaber game.
  
  If you love Lightsaber fights with a Wii remote by your side your going to love this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redsnake28
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  first of all, dont listen to the gamespot review! those peepazoids are wrong!!! this highly addictive 
 game is really fun. i dont care if the game is only 7 hours long, it has a great replay value and 
 an excellent story. all of you guys should go to gamestop and get this game. it is hackin awesome. 
 a really sueweet! thing about this game is that if you type in a cheat code, you can play as almost 
 every character from the star wars in the story mode!!!!!!!!!!!!!! hey dorks, nerds, geeks this 
 will be the perfect game for you! and, it will even appeal to the awesome supercool peeps like 
 me! if you dont have a wii, get it on a PS3 or XBox 360. if youse dont have those, u gots no life!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 RODGER!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jessehogie
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  I have been looking forward to this game for some time. I waited a bit before buying it so I could 
 read what other people had to say and I was a bit scared. I always hate when games are so short 
 you are left wanting more and this one falls under that category a bit. But at the same time if 
 you look at what the game was meant to do, be a bridge between Episodes 3 and 4, its not short 
 at all. 
  
  Game play was a treat, I will never get tired of picking up a stormtrooper and throwing him across 
 the stage, out a window and into space. Using the Wiimote as a lightsaber was also fun, although 
 I would like to have free control of what I can do. Maybe this will change with The Clone Wars 
 game. Using the Wiimote and nunchuck seemed to fit very well with this game. I easily picked up 
 how to work things and mastered all the moves I could preform.
  
  The storyline was great, I would love to see this adapted into an actual movie. It was a bit predictable, 
 but when you think about it, Star Wars itself is predictable. 
  
  Level design and overall look of the game was pretty good for the Wii. I found it a bit odd that 
 plants and other things "grew" as I walked up to them, but you get use to it. 
  
  I would highly recommend this game for anyone that owns a Wii. Even if you are not into the Star 
 Wars story, this is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AuraLine
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 4/10 They're pretty disappointing. The environments don't look pretty nor do the character 
 models. It looks like it was rushed. Although the Force effects are a bit awesome to look at, it 
 just doesn't cut it. It slightly ruins the whole experience. There are some parts that are quite 
 enjoyable to look at though like how the Force rips through a hallway of destructive items. Most 
 of the time though, you're left laughing at how disoriented the graphics are. It's just very mediocre. 
 And for a game that focuses on a story and has plenty of cutscenes, it doesn't help you enjoy it.
 
  
  Gameplay: 10/10 So the graphics are a disappointing, but the gameplay will just blow you away. 
 It's so amazing that it completely overshadows the graphical flaws. Force controls are very sharp 
 and very responsive that it immerses you into the shoes of your character. Lightsaber controls 
 on the otherhand are quite iffy and end up doing something different than what you are expecting 
 it to do. Overall though, it still does not disappoint because you'll most likely be using Force 
 attack more often. Although they're confusing the first few minutes, once you've got the hang of 
 it, you're in for a wild ride of chaos and destruction.
  
  The game plays like a beat-em-up wherein the game pits you in with waves of charging enemies and 
 all you have to do is eliminate them all. It's simple yet very satisfying because of the very sharp 
 control scheme. It's also direct to the point, fight a bunch of baddies and at the end you confront 
 a boss and the defeat them. Like most games today, cutscenes will have you do actions to proceed 
 from your current position or to take advantage of your opponent. This gives more depth to the 
 total experience but sometimes, it gets a bit repetitive seeing the same action over and over again 
 (it usually happens mostly during boss fights) .
  
  The more you progress through the game, the more powerful you get. You unlock more powers and you 
 can also upgrade these to further strengthen your growing arsenal of powers. In addition to this, 
 you can also customize your lightsaber's color, power crystal and hilt just to spice things up 
 a bit.
  
  There's also a multiplayer mode called Duel Mode wherein you can battle, force-to-force with a 
 friend. It's fun to say the least because dueling with another Jedi/Sith is always fun.
  
  Sound: 8.5/10 It's Star Wars. What do you expect? Well, of course you'll expect ultra-high-def 
 sound and that's what you get. Just the sound of the lightsaber or the sound of the force ripping 
 through blast doors is exhilarating. Music is the same old Star Wars music you all know and love 
 and also some new pieces that are sure to put you at the edge of your seat. Voice-acting is also 
 excellently done that it feels like a real movie. There are some flaws though. Some times, sound 
 effects will either come in earlier or later than expected. It's a bit irritating but it is minor.
 
  
  Replay: 8/10 Once you've finished the game, you have the option to start a new game with all the 
 powers and items you've acquired at your disposal. This ensures a more destructive and more enjoyable 
 play-through. There are also a lot of unlockables like Color Crystals and Lightsaber Hilts and 
 might keep you busy in completing the game.
  
  Overall: 8.5/10 A truly awesome game. With one of the best control schemes, gameplay experiences 
 and a story that is loveable by both Star Wars fans and casual gamers, this is definitely a must-have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biriarr
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  there snothign beter than electrocuting some one then slicing them in half. This game is extremely 
 fun on the wii (in my opinion) . Theres always plenty of action and fun boss battles. The controls 
 for the game are also great not the best due to the sensor mesisng up soemtimes making it a litlle 
 bit dificult tio make light saber combos buy its nto the biggest deal. The story of thsi game is 
 very interesting too. Though eopel complain about the graphics they seem to be the bets ive seen 
 ojn the wii so far. howev the game does have its faults for example the gaem its elf is very short 
 and ould take you ma dya to finish if you tried. There is a great versus mode but you need another 
 wiimote plus nunchuk combo witch adds an extra 70 buks if you wanted to play versus mode also there 
 are ocassional graphical glitches btu not too many to ruin the game. The gameplay ti self is very 
 fun but due to the sensor its soemtimes hard to get in the rigth combos but chances are youll just 
 force lighting ur enemies anyways. 
  
  This game is very fun and soem what addicitve i would recomend buying it but you should wate till 
 the prices go down 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naimek
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  I am really stunned by this game! What can I say, it's an incredible game and I absolutely love 
 it!!
  
  I have played 2 Star Wars games before and that was Star Wars Episode 3 for Ps2 and an old one 
 for Pc. And this one is the best one of all! Let me tell you the bugs and the cool.
  
  the cool
  
  The cool things about this game are that follow:
  1. You have quite a lot of costumes 
 to choose from.
  2. There are customizable parts of the light saber like the color the hilt and power crystal.
 
  3. Missions are very reasonable and interesting.
  4. You have many choices of killing people like push, choke, electrize, push a person into other person 
 or just simply use your lightsaber and many more.
  5. Very good graphics and angle of the camera.
  6. Nicely made characters.
  
  the bugs (few)
 
  
  The bugs about this game are that follow:
  1. You cannot come back to the mission that you have already done before.: (
  2. The game is pretty 
 short because I finished it in about 8 hours.
  3. No other mode than the Mission mode accept for the mode where you can play with a friend.
  
 
  Thanks for reading!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 34119
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 8, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  The good is a good storyline good graphics and replay ability and never before seen AI new force 
 ability's and using the remote like a light saber
  
  The bad is once you beat it it gets boring, its better on the ps3 and it has bad replay mode
 
  
  I think gamespot and other critics should cut the force unleashed some slack.
  
  What i mean is that its a good game just some times it gets to easy and sometimes it gets to hard. 
 I think they should make starwars force unleashed with freeplay mode or survival mode. I also like 
 the duel mode but i think you should find cheats for some characters or if you don't like to cheat 
 you should play the harder missions lots of times to get your score up higher to unlock crystals 
 and duel characters. I really think you should rent the game for a week from blockbuster or something 
 and if you really enjoy it pay for it used I also have a ps2 killzone review and im going to be 
 a critic when i grow up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starwarsfan98
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2008 11:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably as good as it gets for energetic people who have energy to burn and for people 
 who just wanna have some fun. The only possible con to this game is that somtimes the camera cannot 
 keep up when you are making higher speed movements. However this is probably one of the best Wii 
 games ever released.
  
  This game can take about 6,7 or possibly about 8 hours to complete. The difficulty is perfect and 
 the length just right.
  
  People are saying that the arm waving somtimes isn't sensored properly this is true but only provides 
 the very ocasional frustration because most times it is substituted with a better or similar move. 
 Another fun feature with this game is the multiplayer option. In multiplayer you can choose from 
 several secret apprentice costumes or you can play as a Sith or Jedi from past episodes. Also in 
 multiplayer mode both Sith and Jedi charecters alike can use the power of "Sith Lightning".
  
  As in any game there are boss battles and several of them. AS usual there are the cinimatic 
 moves that are pre animated. However in Star Wars The Force Unleashed you get to peform these moves 
 simply thrust your wii remote or numchuck forward when indicated. At these moments you get the 
 defiant feeling of a Jedi or Sith.
  
  Have you ever played a game with a wierd dissapointing climax. Well in this game the ending is 
 very rewarding. I shan't say anything more on that so i don't spoil the ending.
  
  Overall I give Star Wars The Force Unleashed for Wii a superb 9 out of 10. It's just great fun 
 i can garuntee that you will have heaps of fun with it.
  
  By starwarsfreak98 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matorodude
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game. really. Its really short and might get boring. AFTER you beat it. you can edit 
 your costume and lightsaber handle, blade, and combat crystal. read the review for more info:
  
  
  
  Gameplay:
  Very nice. its kinda free roam-type. Its nice to just run around with a 
 saber.
  
  Sound:
  This is one of the games high points. Nice voice acting, its nice to here someone that your killing 
 say somthing like "Die, scum!!"
  
  Graphics:
  Its nice, I guess. Its like playing a GAMECUBE with shiny graphics.
  
  Replay vaule:
  Its fun 
 to go back and replay and find new crystals and that kind of stuff. But it can get kind of boring.
 
  
  Bottom line:
  A very nice game, with a lot of Force, combos, fighting, and a lot of other stuff. If you are a diehard 
 STAR WARS fan I would reccomend it. If you are not, I think you should rent this one and choose for 
 your self. It may be short, but fun!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roybarnsleyfan
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 7, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  
  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed for Wii is a great game. Here's why:
  
  STORY
  The story is brilliant - one of the best I've seen in a game for ages. I won't give it all away, 
 but it involves a boy who is taken on as Darth Vader's apprentice.
  Story: 9/10
  
  CONTROLS
  The controls for the force and movement work very well. You get the feeling of being 
 able to do almost anything with the force. They work really well. The lightsaber attacks can sometimes 
 seem repetitive, as they are just a shake of the wiimote for almost all of them, but they seem 
 they work reasonably well.
  Controls: 8/10
  
  MUSIC/VOICE ACTING
  The music in the game is all very good. It all suits the game and the series very well, but a lot 
 of it is just the star wars music we've heard before. The voice acting is mostly good, but the 
 voices of a couple of characters (Juno for one) sound bad to me.
  Sounds: 8/10
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics for this game are not so good. To be honest they are like those of a good 
 PS2 game, or an average wii one. They're OK though.
  Graphics: 7/10
  
  REPLAYABILITY (If thats a word)
  To be honest, you can play the story few 3 or 4 times, and play 
 duel mode with a mate for a bit, but after that it just kind of ends. Not too bad for a 1-player 
 game.
  Replay: 7/10
  
  OVERALL: 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mario578
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  the game starts out with you being darth vader on kashhik to kill one of the last remaining jedi, 
 its lots of fun to choke wookies but the real fun only starts in the second mission where you play 
 as starkiller, vaders secret apprentice and you have to hunt down a jedi who took control of a 
 tie fighter construction facility. youre diong this all as a training so you can eventually overthrow 
 the emperor. at a point in the game vader betrays you and says that he only trained you to kill 
 or capture his enemies and he doesnt need you any longer. you survive and you go to the death star 
 to free your friends who will eventually form the rebel alliance and kill both vader and the emperor. 
 the only bad thing is the terrible graphics. the multiplayer provides a couple of maps from known 
 and unknown planets and plenty of characters. some of the characters are not similar to the original 
 versions from the movies, for example darth mauls lightsaber has only one blade. a lot of characters 
 you see in the singleplayer cannot be used in multiplayer but that usually isnt a problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -P4R4D0X-
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 7, 2008 2:02 am PT
Review:  Its the most fun I've had with a Starwars game in a long time. Unfortunately, it last me 6 hours. 
 Granted, not I can play through with all my costumes and powers and such, but still. There was 
 only about 6 or so missions.
  
  I liked the story, it kinda fit in (not giving away any spoilers) . The powers were fun to use, 
 especially the mass force lightning attack which could wipe out a room of Storm Troopers in seconds. 
 Starkiller (worst name EVER) was kind of annoying, but through in some nice smart-ass quips and 
 comebacks every now and then.
  
  Another small issue I have that is a Wii only issue (I'm guessing) is the controls. In combat sometimes 
 I would only be getting single hits and never doing combos because the game wasn't picking up the 
 swings. Also, occasionally, in the action events, the game wasn't picking up the vertical lifts 
 of the Wiimote/Nunchuk. But thats really a minor thing.
  
  When it comes down to it, what was there was really, really good. Good combat, story, standard 
 Starwars sound and music, decent characters, a level of customisation that I think is a fair enough 
 one for what they were doing. But the real issue is in the 6 hour length of it. If the game was 
 maybe 12 - 15 hours or something like that (I know twice to three times the length is extreme) , 
 then I'd probably be giving it up around a 9, but, alas.
  
  Well thats all from me really. It gets a 7. Its good, but really needed to be a lot longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrLaskowski
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  While I will agree with everyone in saying that the game is too short, I contend that it might 
 have been the case regardless of how long it was. The reason is the game is very fun to play. Of 
 course games like Twilight Princess were plenty lengthy, but it involved lots of time spent traveling 
 and looking for things and was longer than it needed to be. This game however is very short. It 
 is, though, the first game I have ever actually looked forward to playing again. I did enjoy it 
 just as much the second time as I did the first time.
  
  Graphics are not good, not remotely good. That being said, I never felt like it detracted too much 
 from the gameplay. Just not a good looking game, although it could have been. I wonder what the 
 game looks like on a PS3.
  
  Controls are awesome. There are so many different powers that you can use, its awesome. This makes 
 the game. This is why you buy it. 
  
  Overall it is worth playing, just maybe not 50 dollars
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sCarcho
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  The first thing I noticed was the lightsaber apparatus on the title screen, that was cool. Then 
 I started the game... okay.. no difficulty choice... not good... Opening scene commences... graphics 
 reminded me of N64. So I was disapointed thinking about good graphically made games like Galaxy 
 and RE4. Fortunately, the gameplay totally rocked. Taking a stormtrooper... grabbing him and slowly 
 turning over your left hand to choke him with the nunchuk is very much AWESOME. The force effects 
 were great as well. Storyline. FANTASTIC. Great segway into the 4th film. OVERALL This game has 
 crappy unsharp graphics but an excellent soundtrack, gameplay and storyline. I rented the game 
 and beat it in five days... just in time to take it back. Total play time 8 hours and 13 minutes.
 
  
  Overall
  
  Graphics. Boo
  
  Gameplay. YAY
  
  Story. YAY
  
  Sound. ALWAYS GOOD.
  
  7.5... but could have been soooooo much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spongeboy1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is so far one of the best action titles available on the Wii. Or at least it would be 
 if it wasn't so dang short. This has got to be the shortest Star Wars titles that I have ever played. 
 I was also very disappointed that the Star Destroyer scene made famous in the other versions was 
 turned into a poorly made cut-scene in the Wii version. Also, what is up with the force being interpreted 
 as a force that makes every thing blurry on the Wii version? One thing that partially made up for 
 it was the duel mode exclusive to the Wii version. It lets you take on your friends in 6 well made 
 environments. Also, as short as it was, the story was well thought out and impressed me in the 
 drama of the game. I really hope that a sequel is made that continues to use the force unleashed 
 abilities. I just hope that the story is longer, more force powers, and let me actually rip things 
 out of the sky... no stupid cut-scenes. And no blurriness in place of the usual force!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 30, 2008 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Now dont get me wrong. I love star wars and as you can tell from my reviews I have played pretty 
 much all of them. However out of all the consoles this was probably the most lack luster one. It 
 offered the same story line as all the others witch is virtually the same. However the game did 
 not cross over to the wii addition all that well. This game rendered just relatively okay graphics 
 meanwhile the other consoles had full 1080 p resolution, and the gameplay was just like meh. Okay 
 been there done that kindve thing. 
  
  Now on a good note. I do recommend this one to all star wars fans and especially if you like this 
 style of gameplay. However on the same note if you own a ps3 or 360 counterpart then I strongly 
 urge you to go for that version of this game because the wii addition is just not worth the 50 
 dollar price tag. Now I care about all my viewers and I know many of you rely on me as your king 
 of review. This is just my honest opinion and out of all the consoles this one was by far the most 
 lack luster one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spam_spot
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand the low score on GameSpot for this game. I love it, maybe it's just because 
 eventhough I am not a superfan of Star War movies, I always wanted to try my hand at the light 
 saber. Now I have a perfect game for this. The dynamics of the WiiMote with the light sabor is 
 just too much fun to resiste. The other gaming mechanism such as rotating the nunchuck and the 
 WiiMote and shake them to initiate special moves takes a bit use to, but once get over the initial 
 hurdle, they work quite well. The batter can get a bit frantic, but never boring to me. The fluid 
 movement of objecgts by using the force in the game is just fantastic. It's fun but not frustrating, 
 just a perfect game to kill some time and realize that dream of wielding a light saber.
  
  What there's a minimum length on a review, this is just stupid! Stupid, stupid, stupid, are there 
 enough words now?!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sux138
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 5:51 am PT
Review:  tell me, oh please, why to make a game that is so easy as this?
  When I play a game I want to be challanged, but if you get to die on this one, you stard over from 
 the same place with the same enemies.
  
  if you played LEGO star wars you know how it is, but LEGO was a game for kids AND it had some clever 
 pluzzes, which this one lacks
  
  it is just go foward, don't worry if you get killed, kill the boss with the same moves all the 
 time and do it all again
  
  not to mention the Ps2-like graphics!
  
  the one thing good about this game is the gameplay, controlling the saber with the wii-remote is 
 really cool and i don't miss the 1:1 motion plus.
  the force powers are also really cool to use, but then again... no challange!
  
  you have a 
 great battle system, but the battles are just boring!
  
  the story should fill the space between chapter III and IV from Star Wars saga, but it failled 
 to get me into it. I tried to keep playing this game just the see where the story goes, but even 
 that feels boring so i gave up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huntercal
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 29, 2008 1:47 am PT
Review:  To be honest I was expecting very little out of this game, in my experience you get either really 
 good Star Wars games or very poor ones and to me this didn't seem like a brilliant title. But to 
 my surprise the Wii version of the game not only gave me many hours of good old fashioned fun but 
 it also surpassed its 360 and PS3 counterparts.
  
  Needless to say this shocked me, the true next gen versions reminded me of the lord of the rings 
 hack and slashers but without as much to enjoy. So when I picked up the Wii version I was expcting 
 much of what I'd already seen on PS3 and 360 but I got a very different eperience. For starters 
 you should know that though both versions have the same story (which could warrant its own film) 
 the actual missions themselves are mapped out completely diffrently. This was a pleasnt surprise 
 and it pobably made me more aware of just how much fun the game could be.
  
  Needless to say the visuals are no where near as good as the next gen version but what it lacks 
 in looks it makes up for in the intuitve controls that make the game very comfortable to play from 
 almost the very beginning. Immediately you were able to perform light sabre moves that felt authentic 
 and execute force powers with relative ease. 
  
  Probably the best feature of the Wii version is the Duel Mode where two players can fight it out 
 in some of the movie and game's most famous locales such as Tatooine, The Jedi Academy or the Carbon 
 Freeze bay on Bespin. Here you have plenty of Jedi and Sith to unlock and duke it out for galactic 
 supremacy. I have probably spent just as much time in the Duel Mode as I have in the Campaign and 
 with good reason as it takes the best part of the game and makes it a multiplayer that gives you 
 an authentic Star Wars feel.
  
  Don't get me wrong this game isn't perfect and will probably be quickly forgotten after you have 
 squeezed every last bit of fun out of it. But then again it doesn't need to be in the same league 
 as say Knights of the Old Republic or Jedi Outcast as a classic Star Wars game because at the end 
 of the day it serves its purpose as a quality hack and slash. 
  
  But is t worth its price tag? well the best way of determining this is whether you're a multiplayer 
 gamer or like things to be done Han style (Solo!) . If it's the latter then I suggest rent it, pass 
 it in about 8hours, that way you've had the fun without the price. But if you enjoy a good multiplayer 
 then I'd say its worth the money to have it in your library, afterall there are very few quality 
 games on the Wii targeted at the hardcore gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andilliio
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 28, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  Overall the force unleashed is a great game with a great a idea and done well enough for me to 
 be able to reccomend it to anyone who likes starwars. The action canget intense and the story is 
 dramatic and captivating. The upgradable force powers are optional replay with upgrades option 
 will have you going back at least twice if not three times. The games force powers are coll and 
 effective and the enemies varied enough to keep it interesting. 
  Unfortunatly the game has a few more cons then pros as you will be constantly frusterated and dissapointed. 
 The biggest issue is the camera which is slow to correct and awkward to manually control. You can 
 almost never get it to do what you want. It will constantly be locking and unlocking on charactors 
 when you dont want it to. Another stupid thing about the camera is that it doesnt correct itself 
 when you turn around but rathwer after you get up after being knoked down which means you will 
 be sprawled out in ramdom directions and the camera will move to face away from the threat. The 
 story overall is good but at times you will find yourself wondering what the hell just happened 
 and why it happened. (SPOILER!!!!!) People will keep coming back after you have already killed 
 them earlier in the story. Also teh ending are both very dissapointing. (SPOILER) The dark side 
 ending doesnt even make sense with the plot of the 6 movies which we all know force unleashed was 
 supposes to do. The lght side ending will leave you dissapointed as well but its not as bad. After 
 i beat the darkside ending i just said "wow, that was stupid" out loud. You are almost assured 
 to not like one if not both of the endings. Sometimes the story just makes random stupid things 
 happen that dont make sense. Probably the most annoying con of all is the boss fights. These are 
 broken, bosses do stupid cheap things over and over again and on the rancor bull fight getting 
 stuck in a corner means death. The bosses will constantly be able to knock you down and do crazy 
 combos and enormous amounts of dammage sometimes without even touching you. Lightsaber fights can 
 be fun but fighting rancors, ATST and mech suits gets really old really fast. Lastly the only possible 
 way to sum up the controls is to describe them as broken, pure and simple. Some force powers (malestrum, 
 repulse) require you to hold certain buttons which then do other force powers wich means by the 
 time you ge the buttons presed right you'll be out of energy and probably dead. The force repulse 
 was supposed to be a "panic button" but it is so hard to pull off that it is barely usefull. Having 
 to press all four butons was a stupid idea and if you think about it there is pretty much no way 
 to pul that off right. Also while the wii mote and nunchuk are sensitive during locks they are 
 severly lacking in actual combat, if you try and do a saber smash yyou will most like swing your 
 saber in the air and glide down to your death. Sometimes if you even make the slightest movement 
 of the nunchuk if orce pushes for no reason.
  Overall its a fun game but there is just too msuch wrong and i think it could have used another 
 months work... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AweWiiGamer1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is agruably, one of the purest games to ever be released in the 
 wildly popular LucasArts franchise. Star Wars: The Force Unleashed manages to tell a epic big and 
 bracing narrative, that is engaging and dark, as well as pushing the boundaries for the motion 
 sensing of the Wii. Force Unleashed is a solid peice of dedicated fan work, a flawed peice of Star 
 Wars action packed fun.
  
  The story of Force Unleashed is big, complex yet still carries the same emotionally poigant charm 
 that has made Star Wars such a famous series over the years. The Apprentice, codenamed by Darth 
 Vader as "Starkiller", but born as Galen Marek, hunts down a remaining Jedi known as Emperor Palpatine, 
 as he ordered the characters to be dead. The game explores the aftermath in Star Wars III and IV, 
 of the Great Jedi Purge, as well as the rising of Vader himself. The story in Force Unleashed is 
 smart and complex, and braces itself with the dark tones that made the first three Star Wars story 
 arcs so enjoyable to watch.
  
  Force Unleashed, in terms of gameplay, is a title that will consistently surprise you, on how well 
 thought out the control scheme is. You use the Nunchuck to move the Apprentice around, and push 
 the Nunchuck forward to create force moves such as the force push. You hold Z on the Nunchuck down, 
 then thrust the remote forward to push an object into enemies with your force attacks. The motion 
 sensing in Unleashed is spectacular. It is on par with your commands, and truly shows the way for 
 Wii controls forward in the future. Force Unleashed controls generally like a charm.
  
  Force Unleashed has a ton of unlockable goodies that will consistently make you play the game more 
 than once. The game has unlockable concept art of visual conceptial designs for the game. If you 
 collect all the Holocrons in the game, all the art will be unlocked. Each design, from the professional 
 standpoint, in Force Unleashed, is immensely outstanding. Each drawing is filled with detail, and 
 shows what a highly creative group LucasArts are.
  
  The multiplayer aspect known as Duel Mode for the Wii Version for Force Unleashed, is great fun, 
 if not shallow. There is not a lot of depth in the Duel Mode, but still is good fun for any fan 
 you play with. The variety of characters in the Duel Mode is great, and each character has a great 
 move to share.
  
  Despite Force Unleashed is a great game, there are a sizeable amount of flaws which do weigh this 
 little gem done. Force Unleashed for the Wii suffers from a grizzly camera. The camera will never 
 stay in the position you put it, and will continously flip in tight corners. Force Unleashed has 
 terrible AI and stiff character animations. The Apprentice's actions are hugely stiff, and do not 
 correspound to the frame rate. Force Unleashed graphically is watered down for the Wii, and for 
 that reasion, the ugliest version of them all.
  
  Overall, Force Unleashed is a truly unforgettable experience that still is the same cinematic experience 
 for the beloved Jedi series. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UltraCell
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  I just Beaten the Story Mode on this Game. Though this game has it's flaws.. It's still an awesome 
 game to play.
  
  The Two Major selling point of this game game is the Story and the Force Power. The Story is very 
 awesome.. and it's what drive you to keep playing so you can see how things unfold. The Force Power 
 is just pure guilty pleasure to be able to pick up someone and toss them, or electrocute them, 
 or throw objects at them, and the sorts.
  
  I spend my time using the Force powers alot through this game and it felt good. The controls don't 
 give too much of a problem.. for the most part they work pretty well. The Nunchuck however when 
 used in the sequence (when fighting another Sith or Jedi) is a problem. When the indicator comes 
 up.. and you have to twist it to match what's on screen.. doesn't always respond to your twists. 
 It will frustrate you a bit... it definitely did to me.
  
  The camera can be another issue.. as it doesn't always provide you with the best view.. but I didn't 
 find this to be a big problem. So over all this game is pure fun.. and you will enjoy it. Give 
 it a try you will be taken in by the Story and using your Force powers. :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthplaguis5
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  This is just a great game. You can use 10 lightsaber hilts, 11 costumes, 15 colour crystals, 6 
 combat crystals, use the wiimote for lightsaber and nunchuk for force powers, use 27 different 
 characters in duel mode, and watch your enemies go flying around like ragdolls when you force grip 
 and throw them.
  
  It's a great game and it's flaws are barely noticable, it's story is short and it can get quite 
 frustrating at times. You also can't use a cpu player in the duel mode.
  
  It has large environments and you almost do "anything" to "anyone", the explosions are pretty realistic 
 too, Though the problem is there is a lack of force powers and melee combos which is less interesting.
 
  
  Another problem is, why was wii's version half devoloped by krome studios. I was expecting it would 
 be as acute as 360 and ps3, I guess i was wrong.
  
  Overall this is a fun game with an excellent story and I just hope someday they will finally consider 
 wii equal to ps3 and 360, so than wii can have better graphics and games.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danger-XM
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  The game is simply brilliant. The only problems I had were that is was too short (I wanted it to 
 go on forever) and that the finishing moves were too simple.
  
  The graphics were playable and believable, not bad considering that it was the wii. I did not have 
 a visual eyesore once during the game.
  
  Gameplay - Fantastic. At times I truly felt like I was part of the game swinging my lightsaber 
 and bending peoples windpipes or throwing them off buildings. It's one of the few games that I 
 acutally felt a part of which is, in my opinion, the entire idea of a game.
  
  Story was really entertaining and enjoyable, love to see more of it.
  
  Sound was just what 
 i wanted from a star wars game.
  
  Controls were great. Really responsive lightsaber movements I found and great force powers. They 
 really do bring you into the game.
  
  Overall, truly phenomonal and best star wars game to date! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fogman444
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Although far from perfect from a technical standpoint, the Bad-Ass-factor will far outweigh the 
 annoyances for fans of the series. Toasting a room full of stormies and then chucking their lifeless 
 bodies around (w/ Physics) really never gets old -- it has a GTA feel to it, in a way.
  
  And once you get used to it, the Wii-mote + Nunchuck control scheme is actually very immersive: 
 Force Push is used by thrusting your nunchuck forward; your Wii-mote is your lightsaber and responds 
 to your varied slashes appropriately; and, to lift an object skyward, you literally raise your 
 left hand (detection on this can be a little sketchy at times, but it usually works, and to great 
 effect) .
  
  All in all, a very satisfying story play that has some replay value in the multiplayer duels and 
 use as a stress reliever. At least worth the rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sexyman123abc
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  i this game is awesome !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!! ! you should 
 play !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!! !!! it !!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!! !!! !!!! !!! !!! !!! !!!!! !!!!!! !!!! !!!! 
 !!!! george lucas made good game!!! !!! !!!! !!!!! !!! !!!! !!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!! !!!! !!!!!!!! if 
 wii games were wrent 50$ max it would sold for 10000 0000 0000 00000 $$$$ $$$ $$$$$$ $$$$ $$ $$$ 
 $$$ $$$$ $$$$ $$$ man i love !!!!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!! !!!!! !!! !!! !!! !it !!! !!! !!! !!! !!! 
 !!! !!!! !!!! !!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!! !!!!!!!!! !!! !!!!!! !!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!! !!!!! 
 !!!!!! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! i realy love that that it has two player 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nmjkl22
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  i just beat the game it was awesome. My current favorite game. Now im going to try duel mode as 
 soon as i get another wii and nunchuck it should be good cause then it will be harder. you should 
 get the game now finish it later its that good. basically Your an aprentice of darth vader and 
 you go out and kill jedi and stuff like that ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! This is the kind of game people should 
 be making more of ! This is a perfect game for Wii owner's. The game is rely good cause you don't 
 have to repeat combos to beat the Jedi's so you can do whatever you want to kill them like Force 
 choke, Force push, Force lightning, Light saber combos , and extra strong Force stuff and ext. 
 So if you are a Wii owner i recommend it especially if you are a star wars fan. Oh and what's awesome, I 
 almost forgot you don't have to take turns.
  
  By Nmjkl22 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobDX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  I have been following this game ever since I heard another star wars game was in production and 
 couldn't wait; the developers said how great the controls would be i. e. not just pointlessly swinging 
 around the remote but actually have more precision. So when I finally put the disc in and started 
 playing I couldn't believe how crappy the graphics were, I mean I know that the Wii has average 
 graphics but come on all Wii games should look as good as Mario there's no excuse to have bad PS2/ 
 good PS1 graphics come on when are developers going to realise the potential in the Wii and take 
 it seriously!!!. Anyway I can look past this seen as I love star wars, the story, characters and 
 moves/powers are great and the gameplay is really fun apart from the award motion controls that 
 don't quite work e. g. just pointlessly swinging around the remote, the camera playing up, and when 
 you kill a boss you can't really watch what is going on because you have to look at the pictures 
 telling what to do. Apart from these slight annoyances the story mode is great but too easy and 
 short but that didn't stop COD 4 from being a great game. The next major problem is the lack of 
 game modes all you get is the story mode and duel mode which is a massive letdown this mode was 
 supposed to be great and the best thing on the Wii but unfortunately it isn't at all that special, 
 all the characters have the same powers and abilities even luke has force lighting, what's up with 
 that? I mean the developers obviously just couldn't be asked with this mode at all which is a real 
 shame because it had the potential to be amazing 
  
  To be honest I have just mostly listed the bad points of this game; don't let me put you off from 
 buying this game because you will get some great fun out of the story mode and is a must for anyone 
 with a even a slight interested in star wars. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariogalaxyfan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  Star Wars The Force Unleashed is a great game, The Graphic is very good for a wii game, and sound 
 is excellent, the controls are easy and there is a lot of combinations to make.
  The game is not too short has gamespot said you expent almost ten hours of gameplay and it haves 
 a lot of extras, like Color Crystals for your lightsaber (you can change their colors!) , Saber Hilts, Holocrons 
 (200 holocrons! They are to unlock illustrations and other things) and the costumes.
  The History is Excellent! I will make every Star Wars game proceed the game till the end (DARTH 
 VADER AND EMPEROR!!! You two are nothing compared to Starkiller!) .
  The wii version of the game has the duel mode, where you can battle with your friends is vs battles (there 
 is almost all the jedis of the Star Wars saga but I miss Yoda and some jedis has Darth Maul just 
 use one Lightsabers like darth vader because there isnt different fighthing styles) .
  My Conclusion:
  A MUST BUY FOR EVERYONE THAT HAVES WII! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctores143
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  The first time you play Starwars The Force Unleashed the game will seem very fresh. There havent 
 been very many Starwars games just based off of having crazy force powers and a lightsaber. If 
 you have ever wondered what it's like to be a sith with godly powers this game will be fun... otherwise... meh.
 
  
  The main problem with the game is that it's extremely repetetive. The game is fun the first time 
 through but this is a problem because the game is really short. Dialog seems to be repeated over 
 and over when your in a jedi battle for more than 2 minutes and there are only about 8 jedi moves 
 that you use over, and over, and over, and over..... This may seem like a stretch but once you beat 
 the game is starts to get a bit anoyying. 
  
  I know it's a little over exagerated but the cutscenes look atrocious!!! If theres a object you 
 moved in the path of a character model in a cutscene they will just walk right through it. 
  
  SPOILERS!!!!
  
  Later on in the game you head to correllia which is a snowworld. The entire 
 time you are there is a cutscene so SUPRISE!!! The backround looks like it was drawn by a 8 year 
 old and colored by a 11 year old. The colors are very plain and the same mountains are used atleast 
 3 times.
  
  SPOILERS OVER
  
  The good things about the game are that the multiplayer is really fun. You will probably have more 
 fun playing the multiplayer than you will the singleplayer. You basically can choose from almost 
 any jedi you can think of and make them kill each other on  
 fighter factory, raxus prime, and a few others I cant remember. If it wasnt for the multiplayer I 
 probably would have given the game a 6.5 out of 10.
  
  Overall:7.5/10
  
  If you have a friend to play with then I definatley recommend this game. If you are buying this 
 to play alone you might want to reconsider because the game is only around 6 hours long with little 
 replay value.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake2215449
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 24, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  I expected a full length story mode, multi-player action and a little more replay value. But none 
 of this is here. The story mode is only about 8 hours. Although using the Wii motion sensing in 
 the game is entertaining, but you'll get bored of it after a while. First of all, what type of 
 a stupid name is Starkiller? I mean come on they could have come up with the much better name! 
 And the characters from the movie look like stupid Pokemon characters! I don't know they just do! 
 Maybe that's just the Wii. Anyways the game was incredibly hyped and such games shouldn't be hyped 
 and another example is the game Haze. Same thing with Haze that happened here. Not enough replay 
 value and too hyped. Well I guess all games aren't good, : ( I disappointed. The only reason I bought 
 the Wii version is that I can take advantage of the motion controls but I guess I was wrong. Man 
 what is wrong with game developers these days??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdtrichard
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 23, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Wow, what can I say about this game. Star Wars fans have been waiting for this game and I WAS TRULY 
 ONE OF THEM!!!. However, I was let down by this game. Although it is fun to use the Wiimote (lightsaber) 
 and Nunchuck (force powers) , it was not as much control as I would like. The graphics are what 
 I expected from a Wii game but the game play was not. I am not a hard core gamer but do like to 
 play. With that said, I still finished the game in less than 20 hours and that includes the tutorial 
 section. I enjoyed the game but once I finally started getting good then the game was over. 
  
  The game could have been better by allowing dueling online but the dueling mode is not as good 
 as it could have been either. It is a game all SERIOUS Star Wars fans must play, however; it will 
 leave you dissapointed. The way I figure it i cost me $2.00 an hour to finish the game and what 
 do I do now. Beat my 5 year old in the duel mode as I can not play my friends on-line. I hope he 
 is a quick learner cause I need to get my money worth on him!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dannydude65
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 23, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  Star Wars The Forced Unleashed is a third person action game for Wii PS2 PS3 PSP X360 and DS.
 
  
  Graphics
  
  The GRaphics are good in indoor areas but in the outside levels could need some polishing up.
 
  
  6.5/10
  
  Controls
  
  The Controls are great with the wii remote acting as a lightsaber and the nunchuk acting as your 
 force powers makes the game alto simplier.
  
  9/10
  
  Gameplay
  
  The Story in the Game is great but far too short more levels could of been added but the addition 
 of duel mode on wii makes the play time alot longer. It should take about 6-7 hrs to complete the 
 story
  
  6.5
  
  Overview
  
  Not great but a good story and control system makes the game funner and more exciting. I think 
 the game could of been longer with maybe more levels with more jedi boss battles!!
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dadsrule626
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  Star Wars the Force Unleashed is a game which takes place between episodes 3 and 4. Below I will 
 describe the good and bad elements of the game.
  
  THE GOOD:
  
   Great action, finally a game where you don't have to hit a person 10 times to kill them!
   
 High-graphical levels make the game look real
   The people look real
   The use of the force is really FUN!
  
  THE BAD:
  
   A pretty short game
   Lack of 
 being able to choose levels (you must do the whole game over again if you wish to do a certain 
 level)
  
  Overall, I think that The Force Unleashed is a really fun game to play... but the unability to 
 choose levels freely is disappointing. The multiplayer is fun too... in which you and a friend 
 battle each other the form in which you would fight a boss in 1-player mode.
  
  I recommend this game.
  Thanks for looking at my review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawnz00
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  I was disappointed when I read all the negative reviews because I had ordered the game from Circuit 
 City and it took a couple of days to arrive. This game is amazingly fun although there are some 
 quirks in the game that should have been worked out. The camera angles and the length of the game 
 are the only major gripes I have. I actually enjoyed the dual mode more in this game than in Smash 
 Brawl. I mean what makes the WII unique is using the mote and the chuck unlike Smash Brawl. I found 
 the motion of both the mote and the chuck to work flawlessly. The acting in the story mode is actually 
 not bad at all. The game is very addicting with all the force power moves that are put on display. 
 I'm just sorry they didn't add an on-line multi-player option in. That being said, If you're a 
 Huge Star Wars fan then you'll probably enjoy playing The Force Unleashed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 15aaronl
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Wow just beat this game over the weekend and to be quite honest, I was blown away. It never gets 
 old to just run in a room, swing the wii remote exactly how u want the apprentice to swing his 
 light saber. Or thrust the nun chuck forward to force push, well actually just about any attack 
 is amazing. The lightning and light saber combo is one of the funnest (and powerful) things to 
 do. Of course when is picking a storm trooper up electrocuting him and throwing him at his allies 
 to turn him into a bomb not fun. Also the variety in where your missions take you was quite a nice 
 surprise. Places like Felucia, Cloud City, The Death Star (while still under minor construction) , 
 Kashyyyk, The Jedi Temple, Nar Shaddaa, and Raxus Prime (which is a junk yard level designed specifically 
 for this game) .
  
  The only place where I felt this game failed was the graphics, and enemy's design. Besides these 
 two over-lookable things the game flows quite well. Also the multiplier is a little let down but 
 not much. The amount of characters is a nice touch but none of them feel different. Also its woth 
 noting that you should not pick up this game for the multiplayer. Its not that its bad, its just 
 that its not nearly as strong as the single player, or the next star wars game for wii Clone Wars 
 (in terms of multiplayer that is) . All in all if you don't like the multiplayer shut up and don't 
 buy it, but not mind if the rest of us play quite a strong game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daemonstar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  This weekend I went to pick up Force Unleashed from the movie rental store. The 360 versions were 
 all checked out, so I went for the one Wii copy that was available. I also figured I'd like the 
 saber waving vs button mashing.
  
  Likes:
  
  Story:
  The story is wonderfully put together and integrates well with the established Star Wars cannon. 
 It does bring a bit of the darker Dark Side to the table which really needs to be explored more.
 
  
  Environment:
  The Star Wars environment is preserved within the story. While we haven't seen some of the areas 
 before, you'll recognize lots of things from the universe. The fun part is that most of them are 
 fingable, too.
  
  Control Scheme:
  Since the other consoles have no equal to the Wii waving mechanic, this is a definite plus to the 
 Wii version. The control scheme was good, at least in theory.
  
  
  Dislikes:
  
  Camera:
  The camera is a major problem generator in the game. The return-to-center time is simply 
 too slow. The game just sometimes plain gets the camera angle wrong, and when you're in the heat 
 of battle, leads to frustration.
  
  Controls:
  While the control scheme was a great idea, it just doesn't execute as properly as it should. Sometimes 
 he automatically blocks, while other times he just leaves himself open to attack. Swing combos 
 just don't really match up as they should. I usually play most Wii games sitting down, but I found 
 that standing in front of the TV seems to make it a little more responsive, but not much.
  
  Cut scenes:
  The cut scenes can be a bit abrupt in their flow with the game play. It's not 
 a deal-breaker, but it is quite noticeable.
  
  Quick-time events:
  While the quick-time events aren't bad, themselves, they do distract from watching the scene unfold, 
 and, sometimes, the movement prompts are sometimes hard to see in certain boss battles.
  
  More could have been done, of course, but the game is quite playable and enjoyable. The upcoming 
 Wii Motion Plus probably would have made it so much better. If you're a Star Wars fan, this is 
 pretty much a must-have; you will enjoy it.
  
  My rating: 7.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: immortalgamer83
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  This game would be a very good game (its all ready one of my favorite games) if it was just longer. 
 the good things about this game is that it has many fun things like i love throwing people around, 
 choking them, and impaling them up in the air. another good thing about this game is the storyline, 
 which in my opinion was great. i dont want to give to much away about the game (although i very 
 much want to) . the apprentice (starkiller) is now my favorite character now just because he is 
 awesome. There are also cheats you can use to play as people like darth vadar, clone trooper/storm 
 trooper, luke skywalker and many more including several costumes. the duel mode is pretty fun (i 
 just wished that darth maul had the dual sided lightsaber) . the only really bad thing that i can 
 think of about it is that when your sabers lock they dont even touch. overall this game is still 
 a very good, fun game and should be at least rented. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thestew2
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  My favorite saying, "Could-a been a good one.." really comes into play here. Overall, the gameplay 
 is fun and keeps your mind, and arms for that matter, moving, and gets progressively harder as 
 the game rolls on. The one thing that is just the complete killer here, are the graphics.. You 
 would think that they would put more time and effort into making the game look as sweet as the 
 storyline and Wii Mote slashing are.
  
  The Good's: Great gameplay, that keeps you entertained.
  The storyline is entertaining, and will 
 keep
  you guessing.
  
  The Bad's: The graphics. They are almost terrible
  during the cut scenes, but improves during
  the gameplay. Some of the levels are 
  repetitive, 
 but most are well laid out and 
  organized.
  
  Personally, I would rent it before you buy it, but you should definitely give it try, especially 
 with the six hour campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superzone
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Fun gameplay, great story, awesome soundtrack, decent-looking physics
  Cons: Graphics are slightly weak, not very long
  
  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is a game 
 that has been in development for a couple years now. While the original versions planned were for 
 the Xbox 360 and PS3, it eventually spread to the Wii, PS2, PSP, and DS. This is the Wii review.
 
  
  Let's get started right away with the story (spoiler free) . You play as Darth Vader's secret apprentice, 
 codenamed Starkiller. Found as a boy (the first level of the game, where you play as Vader) , he 
 is raised and trained by Vader for about 15 years until he is an adult. Vader assigns Starkiller 
 to eliminate the remaining Jedi who survived Order 66 in Revenge of the Sith. Starkiller eventually 
 follows his own destiny of redemption to the light side. Star Wars fans will get the most out of 
 the epic tale but the unknowledgeable will also enjoy it.
  
  The gameplay is fantastic and it makes the Wii version the best of all. Basically, the Wiimote 
 handles everything lightsaber related while the nunchuk takes care of your Force powers. The motion 
 works well, especially with Force powers. Throwing a stormtrooper is always satisfying, as is throwing 
 a lightsaber, force-choking someone, and slamming your lightsaber into the ground. Boss battles 
 are extremely epic, especially the finishing moves. The Wii version also features extra levels 
 not in other versions, adding up to a longer experience. The two-player duel mode is also exclusive 
 to Wii, and is very fun. It's just disappointing that you can't play against CPU. If you have multiple 
 consoles, pick up the Wii version. It's the most fun and has the most value. Not to mention it's 
 ten bucks cheaper.
  
  The graphics are the weak point of the package. Not terrible, but it's no Mario Galaxy or Metroid 
 Prime. Characters appear a bit blocky and there are some stiff animations. The force powers and 
 action overall though, looks quite good. It's not as pretty as the 360 and PS3 counterparts, but 
 it gets the job done. The sound effects and music throughout the game sound great. 
  
  TFU for the Wii is a great game. It's not very long (7 hours if you don't speed. But two endings 
 make for a second play through) , but it's so fun to play that you will come back to play more. 
 The duel mode adds multiplayer value with 27 characters and there is tons of artwork to collect. 
 If the game were longer, and better looking graphics-wise, it truly would have been an epic masterpiece. 
 But for what it is, TFU is extremely satisfying and Star Wars fans should check it out while non-fans 
 might want to rent.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullandbones91
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  this game was great, I absolutely loved it the whole way through. it was a little short but really 
 fun and satisfying. All the levels are great fun and the multiplayer on the wii version adds to 
 the fun. I will play this game for the rest of my life once i get bored of another one. Everytime 
 i get bored with a new game i bought i go back to playing battlefront 2. Now i'll be playing this 
 one too. The coolest thing is that when you kill someone there are ragdoll effects that are really 
 cool. The force powers are really awesome as well. A sequal would be much appreciated. If you don't 
 already know how the game ends, just let me tell you, it was all worth while. The ending lets you 
 decide what path you want to follow, one being the good sidem and the other being the bad side. 
 I loved all the costumes you could wear, the way you could customize your saber, and everything 
 else. It is so easy to just fall in love with the characters right away and it makes the game so 
 much more than any star wars game you eill ever play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 20, 2008 6:17 pm PT
Review:  In this game you are Darth Vaders apprentice and you do Darths dirty work. If you played the ones 
 for the other consoles then you will see that the Wii's graphics are terrible then the others. 
 But it is one of the best graphical games for the Wii. The gameplay is alright but the story is 
 very confusing because at the start of the game you are working for Darth Vader then you work for 
 the Rebels. The game is kinda boring and you can't go crazy with the Force Powers. Also the camera 
 angle is so terrible that it is hard to beat the game. There are way to much glitches in the game 
 like in Mercenaries 2. The game will take you a while to beat and it is very hard. The cool part 
 of this game is that you can customize your lightsaber after you beat more levels. You also get 
 new clothes and accesories.
  
  The good of the game is that there is plenty of customizing. You can kill anyone in the game.
 
  
  The bad of the game is that there is to much glitches. The camera angle is terrible. The game is 
 also hard and boring.
  
  Overall I rate this game 6.0 outta 10. If you are thinking about this game then think harder because 
 you should rent it and if you like then buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: senpepe
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 20, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  star wars the Force Unleashed is a fun game but after playing it for 6 hours you get tiered of 
 playing the same levels over and over and over again. wile playing the game you are most of the 
 time you are going back to levels you all ready played throw but with stronger enemy's. you do 
 get to play 2 player with chars from past trilogy's like Darth mall or Luke Skywlaker. the wii 
 version dos have allot of problems with the graphics star but win you are playing you don't even 
 care because it is so fun. it's a game that is hared to put down until you beat it. some of the 
 parts in the commercial weren't in the 
  
  
 
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdawg5_playa
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  They should really make it as long as KOTOR since those are some of my favorite games. good characters 
 too and yeah the graphics were alright. i still thought more could be done here to improve this 
 game. but till it's very fun!!! theres stuff to back on and im still working on trying to get the 
 last guy for duel mode but i dont know how. but yeah overall i would give it a 9.2. i thought the 
 sound was ok, and the story line was pretty good, not the best though. the main thing i really couldnt 
 get over was how short it was though it just really drove me crazy so yeah good game good game.555555555555555555 
 5555555555555555555 55555555555555555555555 55555555555555555555555 55555555555555555555555 55555555555555555555555 
 55555555555555555555555 55555555555555555555555 55555555555555555555555 55555555555555555555555 
 55555555555555555555555 55555555555555555555555 55555555555555555555555 55555555555555555555555 
 55555555555555555555555 55555555555555555555555 55555555555555555555555 55555555555555555555555 
 55555 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reno2199
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  After completing the game (it takes 6-8 hours) , you might think you've just blown 30-40/$45-$60. 
 It feels short, the combat seems unrefined and above all, your arms hurt. A lot.
  
  The game is short - a common down side of a lot of newer games. The combat seems unrefined until 
 you "get into it" - that is, get used to holding a lightsaber and wielding the Force. You might 
 randomly wave at an enemy and wonder why you seem to be doing no damage, but later on, when you 
 can launch an enemy and fry him with lightning, you realise that there is depth (Gamespot, take 
 note.)
  
  This is even more entertaining when you complete the game and restart with your upgraded Starkiller.
 
  
  There are two distinct groups for the boss battles - the lightsaber-wielding ones and the others. 
 Where as enemy Force-users can be approached in a variety of ways, the "others" usually have you 
 repeat the same move constantly to whittle down their health. Both involve a real-time cutscene 
 with necessary input from the player. Unlike the 360/PS3 version, this involves moving either the 
 nunchuck OR the remote instead of a specific button. The "others" have repetitive death scenes 
 but the Force-users are unique to each character and always leave you thinking, "Wooooooaaaaaaah!"
 
  
  Upgrading Force powers is how you get through the game. When your Force Push makes a mini-blackhole 
 after being used, you'll laugh at how you thought it was useless on Kashyyyk. You'll marvel at 
 how you ever doubted Force Lightning when you can zap 8 stormtroopers over a distance of 20 metres. 
 However, you'll always enjoy hunching over, mind deep in thought, objects swirling around you... 
 and then sending them flying in every direction.
  
  There are a few extras, but most won't mean any to anyone who isn't a Star Wars enthusiast. You 
 can unlock costumes (including bonus ones obtained through completing the game with one of the 
 two endings) and some look nice and others look like stuck-on last-minute thoughts. Your lightsaber 
 can be customised in colour and power - a crystal can be put in place to increase an attribute 
 or add a nice status effect. There are some hilts, but they won't mean anything unless you know 
 Star Wars' hilts inside out.
  
  Multiplayer (a Wii exclusive) is great, so long as it's not a cardio-vascular workout between you 
 and a mate who furiously waggle the controllers in a mild-mannered attempt to blow up the arena. 
 It (thankfully) plays like the one-on-one lightsaber duels in the single player story. You can 
 choose from up to 27 characters (more are unlocked by playing the singleplayer story, with Starkiller's 
 various costumes taking up most of the slots) and duke it out. All characters have various attributes 
 but the same moves, so fights are fair, with the variation in stats making them interesting. There 
 are a few arena, with typical stereotypes like "that place they fought in the movie" or "the one 
 with the hole of doom" on offer. Don't quote me on this, but isn't there an upcoming Star Wars 
 game on Wii promising to be quite a lot like this?
  
  The worst side of this game is the visuals - it looks like another PS2 port. The effect used when 
 your lightsaber comes into contact with another object is a flat yellow diamond. Come on! Look 
 at Metroid Prime 3 and Super Mario Galaxy and tell me that it's down to "console limitations." 
 It's not that the visuals are bad, they're just nowhere near as awesome as they could have been.
 
  
  Overall, a short game with replay value if you can be bothered and a multiplayer that is enjoyable, 
 though not enough to make it worth the purchase. I'll be keeping this game and will enjoy it thoroughly 
 - just not the arm-ache or some of the special effects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ysef95
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  Woooohooooo
  thats the noise i made when i heard that my game had came i've been waiting for it for a few months 
 and it's finally here i'm so glad.
  so iplayed it for 4 hrs straight the first day thats how addictive it is 
  the controls are good 
 the force locks and saber locks are immense even though the main story is short it has massive 
 replayibility
  the worst thing though is the camera at best it's annoying but when you are in a boss fight with 
 a bull rancor it becomes life threataning seriously the camera is very very bad
  the graphics in the cutscenes also let this game down if that is the kind of thing you like but 
 in the normal game the graphics are decent
  Duel mode is great very entertaining and adds a massive amount of replayability
  overall the 
 pros well outweigh the cons and this is a definite game to buy
  
  hope this helps! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kymerlin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  I've been really pleased with this game as a whole. Sure the controls are not completely rock solid, 
 but they are very good in my opinion. You will swing the wii-mote and your onscreen persona will 
 mostly mimic your motions. Smaller swings are better than long sweeping swings, so keep it short 
 and simple. You will do some on demand waggling in boss fights but if you get the combination correct 
 the animation that follows it outstanding.
  
  Probably the one element of this game that will keep you playing is the story. It has been very 
 well written and is full of great dialogue.
  
  I rented this game first rather than buying it because I wasn't sure which system I wanted to use, 
 Wii or Xbox360. The graphics will most likely be better on the 360, but to be honest they look 
 really good on the Wii. Plus there is just something exciting about pushing my arm forward and 
 watching my enemies go flying through the air using force push! I would definitely recommend this 
 game to my friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerophoenix785
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  Definitely not what i was expecting graphics weren't so good and even tho they said things would 
 almost never brake the same it was just about the same thing over and over again. also they said 
 stormtroopers and enemies would try to grab on to things as they were thrown, am i the only who 
 noticed there was nothing for them to grab onto? and when there was they just flew right by it. 
 but besides that its worth a couple hours to play (and beat -__- wasn't very long) I loved a lot 
 of the new force powers and then they're were a couple that i had a hard time using cuz id swing 
 the Wii remote down and all he did was swing his saber a couple of times. Now im out of things 
 to write abotu so ima just put a bunch of dots 
 
  
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: LucasBlat
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  thats is not what i was waiting for, but thats a cool game, nice for star wars fans, like me. You 
 can make everything that a jedi can do... a funny game...
  
  the best is the customizations, that allows you to change the saber color, clothes, increase powers, 
 etc.
  
  you can move objcts, use force power, throw your saber and in the duel mode, you can play with 
 your friends... thats really cool... play with Vader, skywalker and the best jedis....
  
  i really thing thats the better one is for wii, better than the ps3 or 360 one...
  
  i just 
 think that the moves are not so perfect, i mean, there are little errors with the wiimote sensor, 
 the jedi moves the saber too late, 2 seconds later than you.
  
  but thats a nice one. i liked it. I dont think this game is so bad, and i dont know if 6.0 is a 
 good note... maybe 8.0 hahahahahahahh
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LionEmblem
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 18, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Lucas Arts should be reprimanded for all the times they've rushed games onto the market. There 
 were a lot of promises made during the developmental and the minute you pop it in you realize just 
 how shallow it's going to be. Basically, they dumbed down their next-gen engine in hopes of lining 
 their pockets will people's hard-earned cash. Another prime example of a company abusing a franchise's 
 following to make a quick buck. It's absurd that some of these people are actually calling this 
 the best Star Wars game to date. I'm guessing they never played either KOTOR game for the original 
 X-Box.
  
  Nevertheless, if you were to list every flaw this game has, you'd probably be here all night. There's 
 more glitches in this game than you ever thought possible. Think of how many cheese burgers are 
 resting in Rosie O'Donnell's stomach as we speak and triple that, that should help to emphasize 
 just how much time they REALLY put into making this a functional game. Graphically, it's poor as 
 you'd probably expect and it provides the same kind of fun a game like GTA does; a quick fix for 
 those rainy days and nights. They might as well have dumbed down the AI and graphical prowess of 
 the GTA3 engine, mapped over the environment, and gave Tommy a lightsaber and a few force powers. 
 As far as I am concerned, this is almost as big of a disappointment as Galaxies. (Yes, I'm willing 
 to go that far.)
  
  The only thing about this game that kept it from being an absolute zero is the story it tells. 
 Much like the prequels, the story is the only thing keeping it from resembling a Paris Hilton movie 
 with flashier effects and possibly even worse actors and actresses. Luckily for all of us, voice 
 overs aren't near as difficult to pull off. ;d
  
  If you are a hardcore Star Wars fan, rent this game and get as much as you can out of the "experience" 
 before you have to give it back. For a casual fan, I wouldn't even bother, and for gamers who aren't 
 fans of the series, turn and run as quickly as possible before the tractor beam sucks you in and 
 forces you to shell out your cash on such an abomination. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ABetancourt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  As a Star Wars fan I've expected this game so much for a long time now. It was like been again 
 in the hype of "Shadows of the Empire" all over, you know:
  
  - Videogame
  - Novel
  - Comic
  - Soundtrack
  - Action Figures
  
  I must admit that when i read the review here 
 in Gamespot my heart sank a little bit, but not to the point of not getting the game.
  
  When finally played it, I discovered that the Wii version is underappreciated in every aspect: 
 first of all the control scheme is of the bests I've seen in the system, the music is gorgeous 
 and the sound of the Dolby Prologic II is at its top. Maybe my only complain is about the graphics 
 in the cinematics (because in gameplay are fine) ... I know that I've a Wii, but dammit there are 
 games out there like Resident Evil 4, Mario Galaxy, Metroid Prime, Okami, No more Heroes that are 
 a real beauty. But the blame for that is only for LucasArts, anyway: Come on KROME Studios!, don't 
 disappoint me in Clone Wars, im begging you.
  
  To make it clear, Star Wars the Force Unleashed is a game with solid story, gorgeous music, innovative 
 and fun gameplay, but with details in the camera movement and graphics that make them go away from 
 perfection to just good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrico11
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 18, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  I noticed in the prima guide for my Xbox Version that the WII version was different so I decided 
 to rent it and try it out. I am glad I rented and did not purchase this game. The camera angles 
 often leave you blindly slashing at enemies. It is very difficult to pick up and place objects, 
 which is required to get many of the holograms. The controls are kinda complex so its hard to fully 
 utilize your powers. During my first battle with an AT ST I found it extremely difficult to follow 
 the on screen prompts to finish it off. You have at most one second to move the WII remote or Numchuck 
 in the designated direction and have to do several prompts to finish off bosses and sub bosses. 
 If you miss they get health back and you start again. Until you get it right they won't die. This 
 makes boss fights a lot more difficult than necessary. If the time to do the on screen prompts 
 was longer the game might be fun. The on screen prompts in my opinion are broken and happen to 
 often in boss fights. After a while you get bored with simply slashing away at hordes of enemies. 
 The game does has a good story and more small cutscenes than the XBOX version. The difficulty in 
 moving objects to get items like holocrams and often using your force powers on mid air ruins the 
 experience a bit. I'd recommend it as rental as it's a pretty short game with a frustrating control 
 setup. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spideymaster
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  The Force unleashed is a game that takes place between episodes 3 and 4. In the game you are Darth 
 Vader's secret apprentice. The games story ties in well with episode 4, especially at the end. 
 The gameplay is good, and it it fun to upgrade and use your force powers. You can also get new 
 lightsaber colors by finding crystals in the levels, and you can change your lightsaber hilt (where 
 you hold it) . You will most likely be glad with the games story too. The camera isn't as bad as 
 you think. It's actually pretty good (to me) , and if it bothers you at first, you'll probably get 
 used to it later on. One thing I noticed, though, was that the wii version is different from the 
 360 and ps3 in level design. The wii's first level is at night, while the 360 and ps3 versions 
 first level is during the day. The wii's level's are also more compact too, especcially in Raxus 
 Prime; but that makes it easier to go the right way. The wii version also has duel mode, which 
 allows 2 people to battle with 27 different characters (10 or 11 of them being the apprentice in 
 different outfits. And once you're done with the game you can enter cheat codes to be able to play 
 as many different people such as a stormtrooper. If it wasn't for the shortness of the game though, 
 which took me only about 7 hours to complete, I would have rated it higher. All in all though, 
 Star Wars The Force Unleashed is worth at least a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ojie_Bobaloke
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 12:32 am PT
Review:  TLDR Version (positioned at the top for your convenience) :
  
  Too Short.
  Actually Really Fun.
  Not repetitive.
  Weak story.
  Will play again to show other people, 
 but not for myself.
  
  -----
  
  The graphics? Unimpressive. But the Wii's graphics capabilities aren't much more astounding than 
 the Gamecube's was, so I wasn't expecting much. The dialog sequences are painful to watch. Especially 
 Juno with her expressionless mouth and beady eyes. However, the Force effects are still awesome, 
 although I'm sure they're spectacular on the other next-gens.
  
  -----
  
  The story? Considering this is an inset between two trilogies covering time the original writer 
 didn't feel obligated to explain with more than the marching text at the beginning of Episode IV... pretty 
 OK. The love story was abysmal (but SW isn't exactly known for its compelling romances) . The protagonist's 
 reasoning and judgment calls are ridiculous (although I, for one, haven't ever been swayed by the 
 Dark Side before) . The "OMFG, I thought he died when I killed him!!!11" back-from-the-dead characters 
 are quite annoying. But I wasn't expecting much of a story anyway.
  
  -----
  
  The gameplay? 
  
  Not repetitive. I don't see where Gamespot gets this. You'll only use your 
 wrists a lot if you wanna swing your lightsaber (which is actually only a good idea when there's 
 few enemies on screen, aka boss fights) . 
  
  Force Lightning and Force Push are generally the most effective attacks. Lightning is used by holding 
 down C and Force Push by moving the Nunchuck forward (doesn't require an elaborate motion, but 
 it's really fun to watch things fly away from you as you actually push your arm forward) . And these 
 two abilities can be strung together in varying ways to create a more varied attack. 
  
  Pressing C twice, holding the second one, is a stronger Force Lightning where the toon uses both 
 arms to hit many more enemies. Holding C as your use Force Push uses a Lightning enhanced push. 
 Pressing C immediately after a Force Push sends a ball of lightning after your defenseless target. 
 
  
  Plus, there's like a dozen more different kinds of attacks that don't use those abilities (but 
 they're my favorite) . So once again I wonder how Gamespot sees this as repetitive. If you get bored 
 using one attack over and over... maybe use one of the other multitude of abilities at your disposal?
 
  
  Other than that, expect to die. Quite a bit actually. By the time you actually get the hang of 
 not getting wtfpwned by incoming blaster fire, they add mobs with missiles and bombs that can't 
 be blocked and must be dodged. Luckily, death isn't the end of the game, and you'll never go back 
 more than a couple of rooms (which remain empty) and boss fight deaths don't even fully heal the 
 boss that killed you.
  
  -----
  
  Finally, this game is wayyyyyy short. I played it for maybe six hours altogether and beat it the 
 day after I got it. The New Game+ is a nice touch, but the only thing that makes me want to go 
 on is to max out my abilities and maybe come across a cooler looking outfit.
  
  I probably won't play this game again until a friend comes over and then I'll play for a bit and 
 then give him a chance until he gets bored and we resort to GH3, Mario Kart Wii, and SSBB. But 
 alone, I don't expect I'll be playing this much. As much fun as it is to run around being the awesome 
 Jedi/Sith I've always wanted to be, it just feels like after one six hour playthrough, I've seen 
 everything there is to see and I don't need to look any further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richie894
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 19, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  I had read all the mixed reviews over the past few days and got to finally play it for the first 
 time today. 
  
  The game is just ok for me. The story is good and it is enjoyable to just watch the clips in between 
 the fighting. The graphics look basically like PS2. I have low expectations with the Wii graphics 
 anyway, so that didnt really bother me. 
  
  You basically go around each level killing all the guys and there is a boss at the end of each 
 level. It is pretty easy, you just waive the controller around and it controls your lightsaber. 
 If you die, you just start off from the same place with the same guys already dead. So you can 
 make your way through the levels pretty quickly and easily. It kind of gets old a little quick 
 and my arm is killing after each level, from all the waving.
  
  With the bosses, when you die you carry straight on with the damage on the boss remaining almost 
 the same. Which makes it pretty easy to beat them in a a few minutes.
  
  The duel mode is a nice idea, but the controls are not all that good or accurate. My friend just 
 waives the controller and nunchunk around frantically without knowing what she is doing and ends 
 up beating me everytime. I am interested to see what the Clone Wars game brings when it is released 
 next month.
  
  This is a solid rental, rather than purchase for me. For a Star Wars fan it is fun for me to follow 
 the story (probably more enjoyable than actually playing!) . I just see myself going through the 
 game once, as I dont see much replay value in it.
  
  I actually kind of agree with the points in th Gamespot review. I give it a 7/10. Nearly, but not 
 quite there. Good story though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vlester
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Force Unleashed on the Wii is what it is, just plain fun. No, the graphics aren't PS3 or XBOX360 
 quality, but who cares, its Star Wars! In spite of the review, the sound is excellent. Music fits 
 the game appropriately and sets an excellent mood for each level.
  
  The game does an excellent job of launching the player into fast paced battles, often against multiple 
 foes.
  
  Yes, locking on to the right target can be a bit tricky but it is no where NEAR as difficult as 
 the review makes it out to be. It is unfair to compare this game to others in the Star Wars series 
 because no other game has set out to be what this game set out to be, a game where you hack and 
 slash through the universe and use over the top enhanced Force powers to crush your enemies.
  
  Is it "realistic" to the Star Wars cannon? Maybe, maybe not. Is it fun? ABSOLUTELY.
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucario234
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Alright I knew it would be ok but not this good. The graphics are not great but they're not bad. The 
 story is incredibly addictive. I got off it for about 10 minutes then I had to get back on. The 
 game's bosses which are mostly jedi go from easy to very hard. Many of the batles are held in very 
 destructive envionments which makes it very fun and interactive. I think some times you've got 
 to forget about the reviews by the critics and rent it and have your own opinion. When I saw the 
 reviews for this game I was shocked. when i was playing lego star wars the first one for game cube 
 I thought it would be cool to have star killer in that game. Star killer is a pretty cool character 
 in the game with his clothes all ripped up. But at the beginning you're sent to the wookies home 
 land as vader to destroy a jedi after you beat him his kid takes vader's light saber when the clones 
 are about to destroy the kid saves him and takes him as his apprentice. I would suggest this game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gorgarh
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  After playing Lego Star Wars: The Complete Saga for a couple months, and wishing the light saber 
 battles were more realistic, I think I got my wish.
  A few more puzzles/challenges might have added to the fun, but I knew from the beginning it was 
 a slash-fest combat game and so far am not disappointed.
  I did think there was going to be a training period, similar to KOTOR, with the young apprentice 
 constructing his own light saber and dueling with a training bot.
  So far, that's been my only complaint.
  Can't wait to challenge a friend in the combat arena! 
 heh heh
  Haven't noticed any problems with the graphics and sound so far, the environments are terrific, 
 and the force lightning and repulse are the most impressive at my early stage in the game.
  I'm anxious to unlock all of the characters, and play through for the 2nd time with all of the 
 powers maxed out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjthehun
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I like it! Lightsabers and a bad attitude, what more could you want. :) 
  
  Ok, I've only played through the first few levels so far, but I am really enjoying the game to 
 this point, but it's certainly not perfect. 
  
  The graphics on the WII version do not look as spectacular as screenshots I've seen of the PS3 
 or XBox, but what I've seen of it so far, they do look very good although the cut scenes do look 
 cartoonish at times. A little dissapointing there for this game, but should play into the hands 
 of the soon-to-follow Clone Wars games quite well. 
  
  I think the use of the Wii controllers are well done as well. Could it be better? yeah, probably, 
 but it works well as it is. Using the nunchuk for the Force control is nice and fun. In combat, 
 you are weaving the Wii remote to hack and slash with your lightsabre. Getting rushed by the bad 
 guys? No problem, with the wave of your hand give them a Force shove and send them flying into 
 a wall or over a ledge or something, like you've seen you favorite character do in the movies. 
 Grabbing, pulling, choking, and lightning, all at your fingertips, I certainly get the feeling 
 of being a Force wielder. What fun!!
  
  I enjoy the destructible environment, using phenomenal cosmic powers in an itty bitty living space 
 can be quite fun and destructive!! :) However, I think the environment is too fragile. I mean, 
 I just bumped into some stuff "bolted" to the walls and they just fall off. Come on, I'm big and 
 bad and all, but that's a little cheap.
  
  [pet peeve] One thing I personally find the most frustrating with any third person hack-n-slash 
 platformer is the infernal floating camera, I hate it. Nothing more frustrating than falling off 
 a hard to reach place because straight became left because the camera decided to swing around. 
 Straight is straight and left is left dammit! It is never done well, often choosing bad angles, 
 so your getting shot at by people you can't see, or tying to solve puzzles by making jumps to ledges 
 you can see. This game is no different really, but it does have a temporary First Person camera 
 mode, which is helpful, but I would like to have a true first person mode or a static "over the 
 shoulder" smart-camera that I can set and lock to a preferred position, but doesn't bury itself 
 in the environment or allow objects to get between me and the camera. Is that so hard to do??
 
  
  I am personally disappointed that there isn't a version for the PC. That is the platform I prefer 
 playing on. Still, the Wii version has been a lot of fun to play so far. Highly recomended. I would 
 prefer to give it a rating of 8.7 or 8.8, it's not really a 9.0 but I think it's better than an 
 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happybara
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  honestly gamespot... WHAT ARE YOU THINKING?!?!!? GIVING A MASTERPICE LIKE THIS A... A... OH I CAN'T 
 SAY IT... A 6?!?!!?!?!? CURSE YOU GAMESPOT CURSE YOUUUUUUUUUUUU U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U 
 U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U U  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huibert1
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 17, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  Right in the first in-game cut-scene you notice the downright criminal image quality. The quality 
 of the textures resemble that of the PSone. I know, i know it's a wii system, if you want graphics 
 get a PS3.
  However in this case the quality is so low that i couldn't believe it at first, it's truly horrible.
 
  
  The controls aren't any better either, the different slash motions add a new dimension, but the 
 controls are slow to respond. Also whenever you get attacked the system automatically blocks the 
 incoming attack, leaving you helpless with no way to attack.
  
  At the end of each boss battle there is an interactive cinematic, in which you alternate swinging 
 the wii-mote and nunchuck to get a nice finish. However the finishes aren't that spectacular and 
 frankly, the cutscene is my idea of a boss-fight, not a cinematic.
  
  The story is the strongest point of this game, but the rest of the game just doesn't match up.
 
  
  Overall SW TFU is a bad game with a good story, what a pity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazzjayk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  First I played this on both the wii and 360 and I have to say I enjoyed each version equally for 
 different reasons. First the critics are right the 360's physics engine is really powerful which 
 is awesome but it makes it really difficult to target specific objects. Also the 360 version seemed 
 to be a bit more buggy than the wii version. But the graphics are amazing and there is much more 
 interaction with your surrounding also a little bit more of a story line in the 360 version. But 
 the wii game did not disappoint in any way. Controlling your light saber with the wiimote was actually 
 really easy, you could just wave it around if wanted to but the moves aren't that hard to learn 
 and it really helps if you are specific in your attack style. The levels on the wii are not the 
 same as the 360 though the boss fights are. Also the wii game has both the duel mode and three 
 jedi temple levels that the 360 doesn't have. All in all i didn't have near the problems that the 
 critics say they had with the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HappilPie
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  Good parts... Highly destructible levels, lots of stuff to throw at enemies. Boss fights can be 
 truly epic or short, just depends on how you want to fight them.
  Lightsaber and costume customization!! Fighting many enemies make you feel insanely powerful with 
 all the force lightning, choking, force throwing, and lighsaber action you could ever want.
  
  Saber control for the Wii much better than the PS3 or Xbox version. 
  
  Story line is great 
 although I'd much rather have been able to choose to be good or evil and not have it forced upon 
 me.
  
  
  Bad parts of the game... Cut scenes interrupting gameplay every 5-10 minutes. The game also doesn't 
 tell you what is needed to unlock certain things. I have one character left to unlock in the bottom 
 middle of the duel mode, no idea who it is or what needs to be done to unlock it. Semi long loading 
 times 10-15 seconds between major cutscenes at level endings and beginnings. A lot of stuff like 
 getting thrown around you'd think you were getting damaged but you don't take any at all.
  
  Wish after you beat the game you could play any level you want at anytime again, some are much 
 more fun than others and if you don't get all the unlockable content items for the level before 
 you finish you have to start over from the beginning and do everything all over again.
  
  Also wish there were different difficulty levels for the Wii, as I have become very good at the 
 Wii controls now on my 2nd time through the game, all fights are very easy and I rarely lose health 
 at all.
  
  Even with all these flaws, I still have a hard time putting it down just because its so fun to 
 go through and kill enemies.
  
  If your a Star Wars fan, don't miss out on this one
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sebastianto
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  I have to agree with the average reviews this title have been receiving. Mainly because you're 
 pretty much using the same moves over and over throughout the game. You pretty much go to different 
 locations, none of which are very impressive, and hunting jedi over and over. I rented the Wii 
 version and the graphics are very good. The controls I have to say are waggle, its not like the 
 devs say, like using a light saber. The camera is the biggest drawback to the gameplay. The sound 
 is very good, give you the feeling of watching a film, as well as the story, as I also have to 
 agree is better than the new trilogy. To me the replay value comes from starting a new game with 
 your increased powers and being the badass you should have been from the first play through. Saying 
 more is pretty much repeting everything that you can read somewhere else. I feel that any score 
 over a 6.9 is being too generous. As of the time of this review, the average critic score is 7.1 
 which is fair. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buddykarl
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I waited until Target opened and then rushed to get my copy and buy it. Dashing home, I unwrapped 
 it and fired up the Wii, putting the game into the slot and starting it up. I went through the 
 tutorial, which I thought was pretty cool. A lot to remember, but nothing that shouldn't be too 
 hard to remember. Boy was I wrong. Sure, you can force grip, but the action it then takes to toss 
 something is counter intuitive and not at all easy to master. The lack of real camera control gets 
 me steamed, too. It is frustrating when you want to look around for a health boost, and you know 
 it is there, but can't find it while in battle because the camera focuses solely on who you are 
 currently battling. Autosave is okay and it helps when you die that you don't have to start the 
 level over again or from your last save point as if you don't save often on other games can be 
 quite frustrating to go through again. Another irritating aspect is when you are in the heat of 
 battle, you are suddenly thrust into a movie mode where the only thing you can do is try and thrust 
 either the controller or nunchuck when prompted to do so. I nearly threw my shoulder out having 
 to do that repeatedly only to not be fast enough so the boss went back up in health a bit and I 
 had to start from again with the controller/nunchuck macarena.
  Also, instead of pressing buttons on a control pad, with the Wii, you have to remember a bunch 
 of choreographed motions and button presses to hopefully launch force powers. All well and good 
 but in the heat of battle, one can easily forget where c or z or if I am pressing A or B. Oh, also, 
 and it may be me and my meat hands, but I found I kept pressing the home button or the + in the 
 middle of swinging my lightsaber and had to press them again... a real wth moment.
  
  Maybe in time I can learn the dance, but the whole thing is frustrating... but hey, like all Wii 
 games I have played, at least I can work up a sweat and burn off calories from sitting on my butt 
 playing KOTOR & KOTOR2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 12philip12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  The game has the same levels as the other consoles and i like the way you use you lightsaber (wiimote) 
 and the force (nunchuk) The bad thing is that in some times it is just too easy like when you die 
 you will come back to live just in front of the place where you died but the ones you've already 
 killed remain dead and like if you die by a boss you will come back to life in front of him but 
 he has like the half of his life but still the gameplay is fun and its pretty realistic so if you 
 search for good wii games this will be a good choice the multiplayer is good too only the minigames 
 with turning the wiimote and nunchuck is a - point but still it is pretty awesome ... the storyline 
 is great too im really amazed too of the graphics so to make it easyer
  
  - points are : if youre dead you come alive but your enemys remain dead wich makes it easyer 
 
  
  + points are : it has great graphics and a nice gameplay, the storyline is great too and the use 
 of the wii controls 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irilthor
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  i got this game yesterday morning and have almost been playing non-stop
  
  the game is an hack'n slash action game, with force powers ofcourse.
  you just run around killing 
 bad guys and the more you play, the better you get at deciding wich force power to use for the 
 situation, the faster you'll be at dispatching the baddies.
  
  all-tho i must say, after 2 levels i became kinda bored with the game play, it was awesome, but 
 after doing the same thing all the time it was getting old, but then you'll get new skills and 
 new outfits + lightsaber crystals etc. and it gets more fun, you get cooler force powers later 
 on as you play through the game.
  
  the coolest thing about this game is probably standing in front of your tv and controlling the 
 force with movements of your hands ;)
  
  also the story is pretty amazing, you'll keep playing because you want to know what is going to 
 happen next :)
  the game also has a duel mode, in wich u can play vs ur friends, havent tried it yet tho, it does 
 seem like alot of fun ;)
  
  the worst thing about the game tho, is that it only lasts 6 hours : (
  
  all in all, i think 
 this game deserves an 7,5 at least... but if you're a starwars fan like me, this game is definitely 
 a 10/10 ;)
  i had more fun with this game than any other wii game and i have all the big titles.
  
  
 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
