-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars The Clone Wars: Lightsaber Duels
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/starwarstheclonewars/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Stylized art design and voice acting.
 Cinematic flair abounds in each battle.
 Specific dialogue for every possible matchup.
 Large, multitiered, interactive arenas.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Repetitive combat.
 Lightsaber controls are imprecise at best.
 Older Star Wars fans will be put off by the youthful slant.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 12, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 5.4, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 234 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Krome Studios
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date: Nov 11, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Wield -- or at least waggle -- the power of the Force in this cinematic but repetitive fighter. 

 
  Star Wars The Clone Wars: Lightsaber Duels should have been the perfect Wii game. You're swinging 
 lightsabers, elegant weapons of a more civilized age, against Separatist droids, Sith lords, and, 
 perhaps deadliest of all, your foul-mouthed friends. But just as aspiring sports stars have often 
 been let down by the not-quite-there-yet Wii motion controls, so too will would-be Jedi eager to 
 wield the power of the Force in their hands. No matter how many midi-chlorians flow though your 
 veins, you don't so much wield as you do waggle the Force.  

           You have much to learn, young Padawan.      

  The events of Lightsaber Duels are pulled 
 directly from both the  Clone Wars  CG-animated movie and the animated series. In the Star Wars 
 universe, this places you squarely between Episodes II and III, and Anakin has yet to be tempted 
 by the dark side of the Force. In fact, the Jedi Order has given him his own apprentice, the brash 
 young Padawan Ahsoka Tano, and Obi-Wan Kenobi takes endless joy in watching Anakin struggle to 
 transition from student to teacher. Together, you attempt to foil a plot by the Separatist forces 
 to kidnap Jabba the Hutt's son. Supposedly, this will convince the crime lord Jabba to side with 
 the Jedi in the Clone Wars, and order and happiness will be restored to the galaxy. Of course, 
 arthropod uberdroid General Grievous, Sith lord Count Dooku, and his supersecret apprentice Asajj 
 Ventress stand in your way. Let the dueling begin.  

  Lightsaber Duels holds true to many of the standard tenets of fighting games, and it even advances 
 a few of them. The best-two-out-of-three format has been beefed up so a short cutscene will play 
 seamlessly between rounds, which is a big improvement over a giant "Round 2!" sign popping up in 
 the middle of the screen. In the heat of battle, you'll often cross lightsabers with your enemy, 
 and the camera will zoom in to show, for example, Obi-Wan taunting Dooku with quips like "If Qui-Gon 
 could see you now..." Indeed, every character has lines of dialogue recorded specifically for every 
 other fighter in the game. Anakin will banter with Obi-Wan as if the fight were a training exercise, 
 whereas Ventress and Grievous will argue over who deserves to be Dooku's number two. The newsreel-style 
 scenes that introduce each episode of the animated series (sadly with the same out-of-place, annoying 
 narrator) also preface each duel in the game. LucasArts worked hand-in-hand with Lucasfilm Animation, 
 and it paid off. Cinematic flair abounds in Lightsaber Duels, and few movie-based games make you 
 feel so close to the actual source material.  

  If only the actual gameplay felt so authentic. Hacking away with big, broad, Darth Maul-inspired 
 strokes is simply too imprecise to be effective. Instead, you are forced to flick the Wii Remote 
 slightly from side to side to land the desired attack. Instead of feeling like you are brandishing 
 a devastating laser sword, you feel as if you're waggling a plastic game controller. When you get 
 past the limitation of the motion controls, the only thing waiting is an oversimplified fighting 
 system. There are plenty of moves -- flick left and right for horizontal attacks, up and down for 
 vertical strikes, push toward the screen to stab -- but there is only one path to victory on all 
 but the easiest difficulty setting. Basic strikes are largely ineffective and easily blocked or 
 parried. Instead, you must link together preset combos, the final hit of which is unblockable. 
 This will fill up your Force meter, which unlocks unblockable Force strikes. Force-throwing rocks 
 or crates that litter the battlefield is useless because you take a big hit to your Force meter 
 and your enemy takes minimal damage. After trying every move in your arsenal, this process of elimination 
 will teach you to perform a preset combo, fill up your Force meter, use a Force strike, and repeat. 

           Duel of fates? Each battle has specific recorded dialogue.      

  Star Wars fans who have dreamed of creating their own combat combos will be disappointed that this 
 system isnt very dynamic. Only the preset combos (which do at least look strong enough to befit 
 a Jedi) do any significant damage, and you're consequently forced to repeat them throughout each 
 battle. At least there are some quick reflexes involved. Faster characters can Force-jump out of 
 the path of an oncoming combo, and a parry system lets you quickly turn the tables on an enemy. 
 You parry by flicking (your remote? your lightsaber?) in the opposite direction of your enemy, 
 but doing so successfully feels more like a lucky guess than a feat of skill -- again, due to the 
 unwieldy control.  

  In the single-player campaign, you are limited to playing as only Anakin, Obi-Wan, and Ahsoka, 
 and the simple fighting system negates the individual skills of each fighter. They are each rated 
 in Force attacks, combos, Force energy, and speed, and though spry Ahsoka seems twice as fast as 
 the plodding Kenobi, the nature of the fighting system forces you to play each character in exactly 
 the same way. After you beat the campaign, you can unlock Dooku, Ventress, Mace Windu, Kit Fisto, 
 Plo Koon, General Grievous, and EG-05, the Jedi-hunter droid created exclusively for Lightsaber 
 Duels. Any character is available for a Challenge mode, but it's merely a series of goals within 
 a battle, such as win in less than three minutes and execute two combos. You don't fully appreciate 
 each individual character and the differences between them until you engage in multiplayer.  

 
  As expected, the more spontaneous actions of a friend remove many of the repetitious elements 
 of single-player duels. Battles tend to be long and intense, if light on strategy; waggling as 
 fast as possible is often effective. But characters such as Grievous and EG-05 are ridiculously 
 overpowered. They don't have a Force meter or any Force powers, but they somehow have unlimited 
 (and unblockable) Force strikes. If you miss with a Force strike, you leave yourself open for attack, 
 but more often than not you blast right through your opponent's defenses and take off a good chunk 
 of health in the process. And... repeat.  

  On the other hand, the arenas are excellent, and you'll do battle in Jabba's rancor pit with stormtroopers 
 firing at you, or onboard Dooku's flagship as an epic space battle takes place in the distance. 
 Each area has several tiers that can be reached via Force jump, and destructible items can be used 
 to your advantage, such as thermal detonators. If you squint your eyes in the middle of a Force 
 combo in these engaging arenas, it almost appears as if you're watching the animated series.  

 
           The Clone Wars introduces several new characters, including the dark assassin Asajj Ventress. 

  Although the game is technically proficient and accurate, it all comes down to how you view the 
 animated features, which are clearly geared toward a younger set. With that in mind, Lightsaber 
 Duels has superior production values that younger fans of the animated series will truly appreciate. 
 Of course, there is also a set of disenfranchised older fans that have tried to erase  The Phantom 
 Menace  from their memories and shudder at the thought of a Star Wars cartoon, but at this point, 
 there may be no pleasing them.  

  For fans eager to finally wield a lightsaber, there will be no pleasing them, either. There is 
 no suspension of disbelief due to the simplistic fighting mechanics and imprecise controls, and 
 your dreams of feeling like an all-powerful Jedi remain unrealized. LucasArts gave it a great try, 
 with faithful graphics, sound, and cinematic flair, but for legions of rabid Star Wars fans, it's 
 do or do not. There is no try.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: medic_blue
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 25, 2009 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Lightsaber duels is an overall enjoyable game. The graphics are decent enough and there is a mediocre 
 dialog and the required "Star Wars" themed music but the game could have been better. Motion controls 
 are a little slow and there are a limited number of characters to utilize. A character creator 
 would have been a fantastic addition to the game.
  Adding the possibility of using the classic controller or perhaps a Game Cube controller would 
 have been another idea, I mean really the fighting dynamics are extremely easy to master. My five 
 year old can now hold his own on the "Jedi" difficulty level. If this were a controller type game 
 I would almost consider it a button masher however, I'll just call it a remote waggler. Adding 
 the controller support would have offered more combos and quite a bit more variations in character 
 movement and interaction. I get that the Wii has the whole "get off the couch" thing going and 
 the controllers are supposed to be the best thing since sliced bread but come on already at least 
 give me a choice!
  All in all if you want a decent game that's easy to play and somewhat fun buy Star Wars The Clone 
 Wars Light Saber Duels. Your kids will love it and you might just find it enjoyable. If you're 
 into hardcore games then really..... why did you buy a wii? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foomf11
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 12, 2009 11:15 am PT
Review:  Although this isnt't the best star wars or wii game out there, it certainly wasn't horrible. You 
 eventually forget the cumbersome controls once you get into the gameplay. I like how you get to 
 play as the sith, not only the jedi. I do think that star wars games are better on the 360 or PS2, 
 but this was a pretty good game overall. Bottomline is, if you like star wars wii games or waggly 
 contrlos (which I am sure you don't.) buy it. If you are not a fan of the wii or of star wars wii 
 games, don't bother paying 25 bucks for it. That's all for today. See ya later gaming  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IcemanBryan
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2009 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars the Clone wars Lightsaber Duels for wii is an actually great game once u get past its 
 flaws.
  Pros:
  -Graphics are very nice for the wii
  -Voices are the same as the voices in the show
  -Gameplay is fun
  -Good pick of characters
 
  -Better than the forced unleased
  -Challenge mode is challenging [at least for me =P]
  Cons:
  -Not much lasting value and short story mode
  -Sometimes unresponsive when swinging
 
  -Only 10 characters
  -Hard to remember combos sometimes
  I dont get why everyones ragging on it. Its actually one of my favorite games that i play once 
 in a while
  Overall:
  Gameplay: 7.2/10
  Graphics: 8.5/10
  Sound: 9.0/10
  Value:6.5/10
  Overall: 7.9/10
  
  _____ _____ _____ _______ ______ ________ _____ __ ______ 
 _____ _____ _________
  _____ _____ _____ _______ ______ ________ _____ __ ______ _____ _____ _________
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CastleCrasher64
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 1, 2009 5:37 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for Christmas and thought, "finally a Star Wars game for Wii with motion controls 
 and the force."
  
  I went downstairs, popped it in, and came up thirty minutes later with the game beaten. I was disappointed 
 and couldn't say anything about it because my uncle bought it for me. (I have a VERY controlling 
 conscience.) The game had bad controls, bad graphics (but you could expect that from the Wii) , 
 and overall, it just wasn't very fun. You can unlock all the characters by playing through the 
 story mode on easy difficulty, but to beat most of the challenges you have to beat the game on 
 a harder difficulty which is a waste of time and very frustrating.
  
  I strongly advise you to not buy this game because it is flat out horrible, but if you don't believe 
 me go ahead and rent it, but don't say I didn't warn you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stephenage
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 24, 2009 1:25 pm PT
Review:  So Clone Wars Lightsaber duels a game which I had high expectations for. After watching videos 
 on this game little documentaries and the like alongside consant get this game from my cousin (who 
 doesn't have a Wii but thought it looked good) i decided it looked really good. So I placed it 
 on the Christmas list and sure enough Santa (cleverly disguised as my Grandparents) got it for 
 me. So after some rushed thanks I ran into the room which contains my Wii and put in the game excited 
 to finally play it. I was still at this point sure it was going to be great, even though all my 
 gamer friends (except my cousin) had told me not to get it, so first reactions: not bad. I liked 
 the graphics, I liked the music and I liked the speech, everything was shaping up for a great game. 
 So I dipped into what I hoped would be a long and enjoyful campaign and was quite enjoying it despite 
 some control issues, the combos were impossible but I expected to get used to that. So after a 
 few fun levels I was waiting for another and then the credits came! The game play was probably 
 under an hour, maybe even half an hour and possibly less than that. At this point I was pretty 
 annoyed but thought nevermind this games all about the multiplayer, lets battle some CPU's. So 
 battle I did and still I was really annoyed with the combos and general controls, every time I 
 played strategically slicing up and down at oppertune moments I started to lose; but every time 
 I waggled maddly I started to win. This was rather odd and also annoyed me, the graphics also weren't 
 as good as I first thought, although I liked the backgrounds and the droids I wasn't keen on the 
 person graphics but small complaints. The dialogue was nicely differnt in every battle for every 
 combination but just kept repeating, another little complaint. The main problem with this game 
 is that this game is awful! The controls are awful, it's repetitive, stupidly hard and just so 
 annoying. 
  
  I then thought it was time to unlock some new characters and realised that I had to do some challenges. 
 These challenges meant that I had to carry out precise movements with imprecise controls, I know 
 the game was messed up by lack of Wii motion plus but they should have left it because the game 
 feels so half-hearted. Every aspect of the game has a flaw, not even the multi player is good, 
 I played a friend who waggled and I tried to fight proper and I got owned! I could make a better 
 game than this! The campaign should have had some levels where yor not just fighting jedi and sith 
 etc; there should be waves of droids and non lightsabered bosses just to add variety.
  
  So to sum up the game is awful, it's let down by poor controls, annoying gameplay with plenty of 
 sameyness and waggling, listen to voices of reason and don't buy it. My cousin has been informed 
 of how bad it was and has been told off! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doombringer175
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 14, 2009 6:15 pm PT
Review:  OK. Holidays came and went. Wanted it got it. Plugged it in. started it up and... got boring after 
 five seconds. when the how to play level is more fun than the actual game you have a problem. How 
 did this get better the force unleashed. Bad qualites. no droids to slice through. No clones to 
 kill. No troopers to face. just jedi. I mean come on. the game makers needed way more fun in this 
 game. Okay positives. Controles were... ok. who am I kidding I could bearly play this game for 
 two levels before wanting to throw it against a wall. Please if anyone disagrees speek up now. 
 I beg you. After I was sick of the story I went to check out multiplayer. Four characters out of 
 about twelve. TWELVE. I mean come on they had so little room on the masive disk they could not 
 fit any more people. SAD people SAD.
  
  Final outcome:
  beg your parents, friend, Family, that weird uncle no one talks to, to not get it for them, you 
 or any one else (unless they want to get in a fight) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoodstock
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 3, 2009 8:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely horrible and is a total waste of time. The game is bad from top to bottom. 
 There are no levels, the lightsaber combo's are pointless, the gameplay sucks, and this is total 
 trash. You basically watch bad action cuts, swing around your remote, shut it off, and play another 
 game. 
  
  The announcement of this game is one of the reasons I ended up buying a Wii. What a huge disappointment. 
 I played it for 1 hour and couldn''t stand it anymore. It is boring and pointless. Lucas Arts should 
 be ashamed to put out such a junk game. It is not fun or enjoyable. It is one of the worst games 
 I have ever purchased. If you want to flush $50 down the drain just put it in a toilet and flush. 
 It seriously would be more entertaining.
  
  If you want an outstanding Star Wars game for the Wii look no further than the Force Unleashed. 
 Unleashed has great controls, an interesting story line, exciting gameplay, and allows you a better 
 lightsaber control plus force powers that make for a great game. That is an amazing game worth 
 the cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason2guy
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  After playing this game I was quite dissapointed since there was no variety built into the game, 
 all there was is duels, the single player game is fair but can get quite repetitive. The game should 
 offer more things to it other than using the force and battling with lightsabers, the lightsabers 
 should've also hit against each other like they always do in regular Star Wars movies to make it 
 more realistic, even just one hit of a lightsaber you'd be dead, that's why I think this game should 
 put a more realistic thought into it to make it a whole lot better. The lightsaber duels action 
 is not bad, but could've offered more lightsaber strikes to satisfy consumers especially Star Wars 
 Fans. In the end the game stacks up to be a dissapointing game for Wii. Been said, that if your 
 looking for a rent, this may be a good rent for a while especially if you have the force with you.
 
  
  Rated Out of 10
  
  Graphics: 7
  
  Sound: 6 Variety : 4
  
  Replay Value: 5
  
  Gameplay: 6
  
  Overall: 5.5 A good rent
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Positive:
  + gameplay is fun despite repetition
  + great graphics and sound effects
  + epic duel locations
  + wide range of difficulty settings
  + multiplayer is fun
  
  Negative:
 
  - bad story
  - voice acting is a bit cheesy
  - super short campaign and not much to do otherwise
  - gameplay is pretty shallow
  
  As a 
 Star Wars fan, it's hard to look at a Wii remote and not see it as a lightsaber. It seems the controller 
 was simply made for a Star Wars action game. So two years after Wii launches, we have two lightsaber 
 swinging games, and the one based off the Clone Wars movie is totally centered around dueling. 
 Star Wars fans will undoubtedly have a good time, but the only question is just how much time that 
 will be.
  
  Movie based games are supposed to make people want to see the movie if they haven't already, right? 
 Well, Lightsaber Duels did a great job of making me NOT want to see the Clone Wars movie. I was 
 informed of the entire story by a cheesy narrator who began by telling me Jabba's son was kidnapped, 
 so the good guys go save him. He then told me about a bunch of other encounters with villainous 
 lightsaber-wielding opponents, all of which I played through. Somehow Anakin has an apprentice 
 (even though he's not a Jedi master) , and that apprentice actually beats General Grevious and Asajj 
 Ventress. Not to mention Anakin beats Count Dooku ALONE. Funny how that all works out, isn't it? 
 It's so far-fetched and unrealistic (even in the world of Star Wars) that I simply can't get into 
 it. Not to mention Ventress appears to get eaten alive by a giant monster in the first level, only 
 to fight Obi-Wan in the next scenario.
  
  The game's campaign has somewhere between 5 and 10 levels; beating it on youngling difficulty shouldn't 
 take you more than a half hour (maybe even less) . Thankfully there are three more difficulty settings, 
 each getting increasingly harder. Finding the difficulty that will challenge you without frustrating 
 you out of your mind shouldn't be too hard a task for anyone playing the game. 
  
  Outside of the game's disappointing campaign, there isn't really much else to do. You can do a 
 random match (Quick Play) or a free-selecting battle; these are probably the two modes you'll spend 
 the most time with. There's also a challenge mode, but they involve such objectives as 'knocking 
 your opponent off the arena 3 times' or 'performing 3 parries.' This mode isn't really worth your 
 time; it's more fun to just focus on free battling. If you have someone else handy to play with, 
 the game is actually quite fun with another person to duel.
  
  Lightsaber Duels contains just one gameplay element (predictably) : lightsaber dueling. There is 
 no in-between gameplay to get to the next battle; the story just unfolds for you in a cutscene 
 between each fight. Thankfully this single element is fun, if a little repetitive. You swing the 
 remote to swing your weapon (obviously) and you can swing left, right, up, down, or do a thrusting 
 motion to do different attacks. There are many combos you can do with these, but memorizing them 
 is a pain. Thankfully the loading screen shows you two of them for your character before you play 
 so you can at least remember one for each battle. You can also use the Force with the nunchuk, 
 there is a Force blast move as well as throwing objects and also force lightning for Count Dooku. 
 Characters that can't use the force (Grevious and the Jedi killer droid) just have immensely powerful 
 attacks instead. While the gameplay is pretty fun for a while, it's a little on the repetitive 
 side with all the constant remote swinging.
  
  While it may get a little dull swinging the remote around all the time, the gameplay is pretty 
 fun for a while. Like I said before, though, it really won't last long. Fighting with a lighsaber 
 is a pretty cool concept that doesn't work to 100% in execution, but it's still fun to do. Not 
 to mention the duel locations are very cinematic, epic, and just plain cool. One stage has you 
 fighting on a bridge where the short wall gets battered as you hit it and most stages have plenty 
 of objects to throw at your opponent. Every stage also seems to have some action going on in the 
 background too, which adds a lot to the overall effect.
  
  The game is modeled very closely to the movie it is based on not only in its story but also in 
 its visual style. The animation is nearly identical to the film, although the slight decrease in 
 quality is obvious. The animation in the movie isn't very good to begin with (by film standards) 
 but for a video game (especially one on the Wii) it isn't half bad. The fact that hair and clothes 
 aren't free-moving parts of the characters is really quite strange, though. Overall the visual 
 style is pretty sharp and looks quite nice in comparison to the film.
  
  The Clone Wars movie, unfortunately, did not have John Williams as the composer for the music score, 
 as is immediately recognizable by the painfully unexpected remix of the main theme that plays during 
 the game's opening. The music is fine but nothing so spectacular as John Williams, it is a bit 
 disappointing. The sound effects, though, are quite good as is the standard for Star Wars games. 
 Lightsaber clashing and force effects are quite nice and are just like they are in the movies. 
 There is a lot of voice acting done and the lines vary for every matchup between characters, but 
 it's pretty cheesy and you hear the same lines over and over throughout the battles.
  
  I feel sorry for the people who bought this game at full price (I rented it) . It's not a horrible 
 game or anything; it just has terrible value. There's so little to do I would almost feel ripped 
 off if it cost even $30. Add somewhat repetitive gameplay to that and you have a game that's definitely 
 not worth a purchase, but as a rental it's perfect for big Star Wars fans who have been waiting 
 to use that remote as a lightsaber and people who actually liked the Clone Wars movie. 
  
  Gameplay: 7.5
  Graphics: 8.0
  Sound: 7.5
  Value: 3.5
  
  FINAL SCORE: 6.4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masta_Jedi
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 5, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is just ok.. its nothing great or brand new that will blow your mind, it's just a fighting 
 game with lightsabers and animated Star Wars characters.. If you are looking for that lightsaber 
 game where you actually use the wii remote like a lightsaber instead of shaking it around don't 
 even bother, this is another waggling one (kind of like in force unleashed, but really concentrating 
 on the fighting) .
  The game offers a good variety of characters though, and that i liked. Playing as General Grievous 
 is great and i think it's one of the main reasons why i got this game haha. Each character has 
 their own different set of 5 combos and one charged combo, as well as powers like force throw and 
 force lightning. For characters like Grievous who don't have force, those attacks are replaced 
 with some really strong lightsaber moves.
  There are also many modes to play in, a story mode in which you fight a variety of characters using 
 different characters, which you have to finish in one play because it doesn't allow you to save 
 and continue later (which is not a problem since its so damn short..) ; Battle mode, which is kind 
 of like story mode, but shorter and you use one character of your choice all the time; A challenge 
 mode in which each character of the game has 4 challenges such as defeating your enemy in under 
 3 minutes, using all your combos and winning etc. There is also a free play mode, which is kind 
 of like multiplayer against CPU characters i guess.
  The graphics and sound are ok.. nothing special.. the voice acting could have been better, i personally 
 am not a fan of the voices on the animated characters (Mace Windu is just not the same if he's 
 not voiced by Sammuel L. Jackson..) . The modes are alright, but i think they could have done more, 
 like at least include a survival mode. The stages are pretty cool but you get bored of them quickly..
 
  Overall this game is pretty disappointing for me, it does have upsides to it but its just so shallow 
 and feels unfinished.. As a star wars fan it's even more disappointing, it feels like they are 
 just squeezing money out of the franchise (and i realize the irony in the fact i helped on that) ..
 
  But yea, if you like this animates star wars thing, and enjoy fighting games maybe you will like 
 this thing, its a matter of opinion i guess. I suggest a rent first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 15aaronl
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 22, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  Well there isn't much 2 say here other than its just really broken and boring. The campaign is 
 repetitive in the stories the come up with for excuses to make a Sith and a Jedi fight. The campaign 
 took me about 45 minutes to complete. Force Unleashed focused on obviously the force, but Lightsaber 
 Duels focused more on again obviously lightsaber combat. It is really very weak gameplay. The controls 
 work except that swinging your lightsaber is not fun to do like in force unleashed. It actually 
 hurts, and feels more like waggling the wii remote than anything. The only minorally good part 
 about this game is the characters. In force unleashed all the characers wield on lightsaber but 
 in Lightsaber Duels you can be ventress (2 lightsabers) and Grievious (with 4) . And it actually 
 works as far as using the wii remote and is fun. But besides that it is a broken game 2 stay away 
 from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  I don't know about you, but the first time I heard about the Wiimote I thought "Swordfights! Lightsabers! 
 Yes!!!". It's a pretty bitter dissapointment to see all of that high concept end up as nothing 
 more than shaking a controller like a tamborine. The whole point of a motion controlled lightsaber 
 dueling game, is to wield the controller, and have the onscreen "blade" follow. The problem here, 
 is that the Wii can't handle that, and neither could Krome Studios and LucasArts.
  
  While sporting some of the prettiest graphics I've seen on the Wii, and with the high quality sound 
 effects and music that pretty much all of the Star Wars games come with are plusses. Of course, 
 what could is a plateful of a icing and no cake? The only way to sell this game is essentially 
 as a swordfighting sim, which it does not attempt to be. In fact, there was no point in playng 
 this game, that I felt I couldn't have better control with a standard controller. I can't emphasize 
 this enough... this is NOT Mario... no clever point and shoot mechanics stand out... this is just 
 about shaking the Wiimote and nunchuk in a few direction, very VERY hard.
  
  When it all comes down to it, no one playing this game will feel like the Wiimote became the hilt 
 of a lightsaber, and without that this game fails utterly. There are other, better Star Wars games 
 out there, and frankly the Wii deserved a better treatment of it's motion controls. So we end where 
 we began, at a very grim bottom line for SWTCW: LD (what an acronym...) . Do yourself a favour, and 
 even if you are a dyed in the wool SW fan... rent it first. I'd give it a 1, but it DOES have the 
 gloss and is playable as a game of SOME sort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rami_keyblade
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Although i hated the Clone Wars movie, and liked 1-6 this is still playable.
  BreakDown
  1) Graphics
  2) Controls
  3) Depth
  4) Multilayer
  5) Voice
  
  1) The graphics are the best 
 ive seen on a 3rd party game. All character models look great, and animate pretty smoothly
  
  2) If you played TFU you will be familiar, its combos are cool and the controls grow on you, 
 its quiet addictive 
  
  3) Incredibly short story mode! less then like 3 hours, its the shortest ive seen yet. You just 
 watch a cut scene fight a boss, then repeat-after beating the boss you unlock them great if it 
 had a little gameplay between each fight
  
  4) It could be fun for like an hour or too, then you may be bothered by the repetitive. only a 10 
 character roster!!!!! Too small too repetitive and just too shallow
  
  5) It seems the one thing the did focus on was the voice over unique too each pair of characters.
 
  
  Overall it is pretty fun and addictive for as long as it lasts.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  Gameplay 5/10 - good controls but not enough stuff to do
  Depth 2/10 challenges and fights thats 
 all
  
  
  
  
  overall not an average 7.5/10 (again 7.5 for when it lasts) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
