-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Summer Athletics: The Ultimate Challenge
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/summerathletics/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Some decent animation.
 A few events have a simple, straightforward appeal.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Only seven basic event types.
 Most events are dull.
 Swimming, cycling and medium-distance running events are terrible.
 Minimal sound.
 Creepy grinning monkey may haunt your dreams.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 10, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3
Critic Score: 5.8, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 5.4, 31 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Conspiracy Entertainment
Developer: 49Games
Genre: Olympic Sports
Date: Aug 4, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Summer Athletics captures none of the passion and excitement of summer athletics. 

  Imagine, if you will, an international goodwill competition consisting of eight athletes coming 
 together in some city or other to test their abilities in a series of dull takes on traditional 
 sporting events while the eyes of the world look elsewhere. Summer Athletics: The Ultimate Challenge 
 brings this vision to life, and it's every bit as underwhelming as you'd expect.  

           Yay, two minutes of arm-flailing!      

  Summer Athletics is a collection of seven 
 simple minigames based on seven categories of events: running, jumping, swimming, throwing, cycling, 
 archery, and high diving. Although there are a number of events within each category -- the jumping 
 category contains pole vault, long jump, triple jump, and high jump events, for instance -- the differences 
 in how the events in a category play out are relatively minor. You can jump right into any individual 
 event or play through a prearranged or custom competition made up of any combination of events, 
 with up to four players participating. The game also includes a career mode in which you create 
 your own superathlete and take him or her through a series of competitions. There are a surprising 
 number of options for customizing your athlete's appearance, but none of them have a significant 
 effect. No matter how much you tinker with these options, your athlete will still end up looking 
 like a plastic doll made from the same mold as all the other athletes in the game. Summer Athletics 
 pretends at depth by making you spend points after each event to improve your athlete's attributes 
 in career mode, but this just feels like busywork, because it's never clear what effect these attributes 
 have on your performance.  

  There are more competition options here than you can shake a javelin at, but they can only be as 
 good as the minigames they're composed of, and the minigames in Summer Athletics range from mediocre 
 to awful. The diving events are just simple rhythm games. Your dive takes place in slow motion, 
 and you have to respond to a series of visual cues with precise timing to execute the best possible 
 dive. It's nothing remotely exciting, but at least it's clear what you have to do to succeed.  
 

  The same can be said of events like short-distance running, which just involves jiggling the right 
 stick back and forth as fast as you can on the 360 and moving the Wii Remote and Nunchuk up and 
 down rapidly on the Wii. There's no depth to it, but there's still a certain straightforward appeal 
 to these kinds of brief endurance events that's reminiscent of classic sports games like Track 
 &amp; Field. The throwing events and jumping events are pretty similar to each other, and all involve 
 building up momentum with rapid controller inputs and then timing your jump or throw for the best 
 possible result. Like the short-distance running events, these feel a lot like sports games of 
 old that put an emphasis on rapid button mashing. That gameplay mechanic still works in short bursts, 
 but it is decades old, and this game does nothing to improve upon it.  

  Archery is a bit better on the 360 than on the Wii. All you do here is line up a shot, taking wind 
 into account, and fire. Using the thumbsticks to line up your shot seems more precise than using 
 the remote. The swimming events, on the other hand, are considerably worse on the 360, though they're 
 terrible on the Wii as well. On the Wii, they involve moving the remote and nunchuk in motions 
 that vaguely resemble the swimming style being used in the event, and getting into a good rhythm 
 is pretty easy, though waving your arms in the same motion for a minute or two is anything but 
 fun. On the 360, you must rotate both thumbsticks constantly in an overly precise rhythm that's 
 tricky to establish and extremely difficult to maintain.  

  The worst of the bunch are the cycling and medium-distance running events, which require you to 
 pace yourself to maintain a balance between speed and conservation of stamina. If you don't push 
 yourself hard enough, you'll fall behind the pack with no chance to salvage the race, and if you 
 push yourself too hard, you'll run out of stamina well before the race is over. Staying in the 
 pack is essential, since the only way to conserve your stamina is to stay in the slipstream of 
 an opponent. Finding the right balance in the medium-distance running events is tricky, and in 
 the cycling events, it's downright mystifying. The confusing onscreen gauges provide no guidance, 
 so time and time again you will find yourself being passed by your opponents with no idea how to 
 improve your performance.  

           Cycle faster! No, wait, slower! No, faster! Slower, slower!      

  As you'd expect, 
 the Xbox 360 version is sharper and more vibrant than its Wii counterpart, but neither version 
 looks good. All of the athletes seem to come from the same very small gene pool. The animation 
 for the athletes is smooth during competitions, but the same few canned animations are repeated 
 for celebration and disappointment after events. The event arenas feel eerily empty, and the only 
 constant presence is a creepy grinning monkey dancing in the background. The sound in the game 
 is disappointingly minimal. The noise of the crowd cheering has about as much character as what 
 you'd hear in a sports game on the Atari 2600. The athletes seem to have taken a vow of silence; 
 they don't utter so much as a grunt or a shout, and the announcer has only a few bits of verbiage 
 you'll hear over and over again.  

  A handful of the events in Summer Athletics can make for simple fun in small doses, especially 
 if you have a friend or two handy to compete against, but the majority of what you'll find here 
 is lousy. Even at a budget price, seven minigames isn't much for your money, and considering that 
 most of them aren't worth playing, even diehard sports fans are better off steering clear of this 
 game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ForgottenLives
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 26, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is very messed up. The controls are hard to understand and very complicated to do. Absolutely 
 horrible graphics that look like they were crapped out of a Dinosaur or thrown up by Donkey Kong. I 
 mean really, I think GBA graphics are better than that. Game-play is repetitively and boring. Old 
 games and Olympic challenges. If you want an Olympic game go buy Mario And Sonic at the Olympic 
 Games. There's horrible solo story. No fun creating a character that won't resemble how you look. The 
 only good thing is that it beats the Beijing game. But Olympic games should not be made into video 
 games. Thank you for reading this review.
  
  Don't read this part: aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
 
  mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm llllllllllllllllllllllll ssssssssssssssssssssssss 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadPSPAddict
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2008 11:19 pm PT
Review:  My wife and I have fond memories of playing international track and field on the PS1 back in the 
 day and so we had been looking forward to some of this summers offerings. Bejing Olympics was overall 
 disapointing so we were interested to see how this played out. Note we have played both the Wii 
 and Xbox360 versions of this game and right now I can't decide which was better.
  
  Summer Athletics is everything Bejing Olympics wasn't! Yes there is still a fair amount of button 
 mashing or arm waving depending on version and yes that can be fun! Swimming is great - some very 
 amusing actions required in the Wii version that we discovered sitting down for wasn't a great 
 idea as we got all tangled in the wire! Anyway.....
  
  Swimming and running - all split screen (up to 4 players) as you'd expect.
  Throwing/Jumping/Archery 
 etc - again split screen allowing all competitors to compete simultaneously! There is a choice 
 between hotseat mode and split screen mode for those with smaller screens or the need to "analyse" 
 every little detail but the split screen on a 42" or bigger tv was excellent. The events could 
 be got through quicker, everyone playing at the same time so no hanging around waiting for your 
 turn. What an excellent concept! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
