-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Super Paper Mario
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/rpg/superpapermario/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fun, engaging gameplay.
 Great sense of humor.
 Lengthy quest with a respectable amount of replay value.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Awkward camera when flipping to 3D.
 Weak audio.
 Pacing issues with some of the later levels.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  9, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.5, 76 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 6,617 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Intelligent Sys.
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Apr 9, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Super Paper Mario brings Nintendo's quirky role-playing series to the Wii with great results.

  While Mario's proper 3D Wii adventure is still a ways off, Nintendo and developer Intelligent Systems 
 have cooked up an engaging adventure to tide the plumber's fans over -- Super Paper Mario. Although 
 originally slated to be a GameCube release, Super Paper Mario has been shifted to the Wii to good 
 effect. The unique game is a hybrid of platforming and role-playing that feels both new and familiar 
 at the same time. The game has many of the aesthetics of the previous Paper Mario games and features 
 an inventive story, eccentric characters, rock-solid gameplay, and genuinely funny dialogue. While 
 the whole package isn't quite refined enough to attain classic status, Super Paper Mario is still 
 a great game that stands among the Wii's best.  

          Mario is back to save the day yet again.     

  The game's story revolves around Mario's 
 attempt to stop the dastardly Count Bleck, a new villain to add to the plumber's rogues' gallery, 
 who has set out to destroy all worlds. Oddly enough, Bleck's plot of destruction is fueled by the 
 forced marriage of Princess Peach and Bowser, which he has arranged and which creates a "chaos 
 heart" the count then uses to get his destruction on. In the ensuing chaos, Mario is transported 
 to the interdimensional town of Flipside and asked to help stop Bleck. To halt the destruction 
 of all worlds, Mario must collect eight objects called "pure hearts" to form the purity heart, 
 which is an ancient artifact of great power and the only thing that can stop Bleck's plans. To 
 find the hearts, Mario must venture to various worlds through dimensional doors conveniently located 
 in Flipside. Each door can be opened only by using a pure heart, which sets up the game's linear 
 structure. Each dimension comprises a chapter in the game and is broken up into four parts. The 
 fourth part of each chapter ends in a boss fight and yields a heart if you win. As you collect 
 the pure hearts, you'll meet up with the game's colorful cast of characters, which include a number 
 of familiar faces and some new, helpful friends. The story is told through a hefty chunk of text, 
 and despite the volume of content to read through, there's a sparkling sense of humor that is on 
 par with the previous games in the series.  

  Though Mario is the star of the game, you'll come to have four members in your party that you can 
 switch between on the fly, though you can be in control of only one of them at any given time. 
 Each playable character will feature a unique ability you'll need to use to progress. Mario gains 
 the power to "flip" the 2D world around him into 3D, which lets him access new areas, avoid enemies, 
 or see hidden items. The only limit to using the ability is an onscreen meter that counts down. 
 If you stay flipped for too long, you'll lose one point of health, and the meter will begin counting 
 down again. Princess Peach brings her mighty parasol into the mix. Besides allowing her to float 
 during a jump, it can be used to defend against enemy attacks. The mighty Bowser is also along 
 for the adventure and offers double the attack power of the other characters, as well as a fiery 
 blast you can use to take out enemies or light things on fire. Finally, Luigi rounds out the party 
 with his ability to leap to massive heights.  

  Besides the unique abilities of your party members, you'll need to make use of new companions known 
 as pixls. You'll collect the creatures as you explore the various dimensions in search of pure 
 hearts. Each pixl will have a unique ability that is often key to progressing in the game. For 
 example, Boomer the bomb pixl will let you take out obstacles that impede your progress, while 
 Dottie shrinks you down to the size of an ant, which allows you to gain access to new areas or 
 slip past foes who are oblivious to you. As with the playable characters in your party, you can 
 have only one active pixl out at a time, but you can change them on the fly. The exception to this 
 rule is Tippi, who is always around. Tippi is a butterfly-like pixl who serves as your guide in 
 the game much like Navi in the Zelda games or Goombella in 2004's Thousand Year Door for the GameCube. 

          Though the adventure is new, the gameplay is familiar.     

  As mentioned, the action in Super Paper Mario blends elements of a platformer and a role-playing 
 game into a unique package. The framework of the game is like a standard RPG. Though you have the 
 set goal of collecting the pure hearts, you can talk to locals in Flipside and in other towns in 
 the different chapters. These conversations lead to side quests or simply offer useful information 
 you'll need later. You'll also find various shops where you can purchase items, get your fortune 
 told, or even learn to cook. Though the town of Flipside appears to be fairly basic, once you gain 
 Mario's ability to flip and start adding more pixls to your party, you'll find there's quite a 
 bit to explore.  

  When you set out to collect pure hearts and go through the various dimensional doors, Super Paper 
 Mario feels more like a platformer. You'll go through levels on a 2D plane, whether it's running 
 from one side of the screen to another or ascending straight up into the clouds. The levels even 
 feature various power-ups that offer new twists on familiar items. Megastars transform you into 
 a giant retro pixilated version of whichever character picks it up, while various colored flowers 
 will speed you up or slow you down. Mario's flipping ability and the various pixls add a great 
 deal of depth to the levels and make for some smartly designed and challenging puzzles. Seemingly 
 dead ends become paths to new areas when you look at them flipped or use a pixl's ability.     
 

  Combat takes place in real time, and you earn points by defeating enemies. Though your primary 
 attack is the time-honored head stomp, you'll be able to use pixls or Bowser's flame attack as 
 well. Your score doubles as your experience, so you can level up as you progress. Leveling up yields 
 a specific bonus to your maximum hit points or attack power. Stats and experience are shared across 
 your quartet, although Bowser has double the attack power of Mario, Luigi, and Peach. Items you 
 can buy in shops can help take out enemies, restore your health, or temporarily increase your attack 
 or defense in battle. One thing to call out about the game's combat is the inventive elements of 
 boss battles. Whether it's an old-school Final Fantasy-style turn-based interface or a clever rip-off 
 of a Japanese dating sim, Super Paper Mario's boss battles are funny and lively.  

          The characters and pixls in your party all have unique abilities to help you progress. 
     

  Moving around and attacking is a breeze thanks to the game's simple control scheme, which has you 
 holding the Wii Remote sideways. You'll use the D pad to move your selected character, while the 
 1 button will trigger your active pixl's ability and 2 will let you jump. Hitting 1 and 2 at the 
 same time calls up a quick menu that lets you switch characters, pixls, and use items. The A button 
 triggers Mario's flipping ability, which you'll use often. The plus button calls up a more detailed 
 menu that lets you check out various stats and inventory.  

  Though the control scheme is decidedly old school, Super Paper Mario works in some unobtrusive 
 support for the Wii Remote. You'll follow onscreen prompts when using some items in combat, such 
 as shaking the remote up and down or holding it in specific positions. When jumping on enemies, 
 if you shake the controller at the right moment you'll earn some bonus points. Pointing the controller 
 at the screen when you have Tippi along will let you highlight items or objects. When your onscreen 
 cursor turns red, you can hit any button to get useful information out of her. You'll also use 
 the controller in simple minigames you'll come across.  

  One thing to note is that, above and beyond the core story content, Super Paper Mario features 
 a good assortment of side quests to undertake. You can collect recipes and character cards, visit 
 a local arcade, and even get three additional pixls. While you can do some of this before finishing 
 the game, you'll have the option to go back once you've finished the quest. Revisiting areas will 
 let you continue some side quests you didn't finish and even take on some new ones.  

  From a presentation standpoint, Super Paper Mario is a solid game all around, although its audio 
 is a bit too low-key. The graphics have a simple charm and are big on little details and flair. 
 The characters are eclectic and showcase a variety of art styles: The Mushroom Kingdom characters 
 are a traditional-looking bunch that animate smoothly, while the interdimensional crew, which are 
 new to the game, all have unique looks. The same holds true of the various dimensions you'll visit. 
 Whether it's the surreal algebra equations written in the sky, the colored pixels of the Bitlands 
 level, or the various places you see Nintendo hardware pop up in the game, the game has a unique 
 style that works well. While the flipped locales come across a bit spare, their look fits with 
 the game's modernized spin on 2D. At its heart, Paper Mario is a 2D game dressed, quite fetchingly, 
 in some 3D. For videophiles looking for the optimal experience, Super Paper Mario supports 16x9 
 widescreen and 480p, though it looks fine on standard-definition televisions as well. The weakest 
 element is the game's audio, which is a little too retro. Although the soundtrack is solid, there 
 are no standout tracks. The sound effects are effective, albeit a bit too familiar. Voice is used 
 too sparingly, though what's there fits the archetype set by the previous games.  

          The unique flipping mechanic makes for some inventive puzzle designs.     

  While Super 
 Paper Mario is quite good, there are a few things that trip it up. The camera can sometimes be 
 problematic when you use Mario's flipping ability. Besides making it difficult to see, the flipped 
 view can make attacking enemies difficult because it's tough to line up for a jump. The game's 
 pacing is also slightly offsome of the later levels rely a bit too much on navigating mazes 
 or facing waves of minibosses. Though none of the shortcomings break the game, they certainly bog 
 down the engaging experience some.  

  In the end, while it's not quite on par with some of the other entries in the series, Super Paper 
 Mario stands as an engaging and fun Wii game that's well worth your time. Though the minor camera 
 and pacing issues as well as the underwhelming audio keep the game from being a totally polished 
 experience, there's plenty to appreciate. Super Paper Mario's humorous story, accessible gameplay, 
 inventive design, cool visual style, and impressive amount of content give it an undeniable charm. 
 Anyone with a Wii should check it out.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (565 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: smashking777
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2009 9:31 pm PT
Review:  HI Smashking777 here with another review this time we look back at Paper Mario 3.... Or better know 
 as Super Paper Mario. As you may notice that this game has left out its main part the RPG battles 
 that were present in the other 2 processers now this may be a reason for you to not get the game 
 but give this one a chance and play it you will find yourself playing till you tire yourself out. Super 
 Paper Mario 's storyline is told in the same prespective as the other games but this time it takes 
 place between dimensions.
  
  
  Story:7/10
  The storyline kinda confusing and you probably wont really get full details until near the end 
 of the game.
  
  Graphics:8/10 
  May not realize it but they are new even mario has some new poses/
  
  Controls:9/10
  Ah a 
 little bit of originality from past mario games even using the power of the wii sensor will help 
 you use your items.
  
  Music:9/10
  I have the games sound track stuck in my head as we speek
  
  Replay Vaule :Medium
  There 
 are some things to look at afterwards.
  
  Total Score 9.0
  
  Final Words: Although not better than its proscessers Super Paper Mario is a game you may want to 
 chexk out and play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOSTLEAD3R
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 10, 2009 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is that game that tries to be cool and go like, hey I do what I want, but to 
 the people that like the way the two previous games were (Paper Mario/ Thousand Year Door) , will 
 be in for a bit of a disappointment. So should people that played the other two buy this one?... maybe 
 not maybe you should just rent it. If you really want to I guess just this one time you can buy 
 it, I know I did, I don't regret it, but I wish I had my money back.
  Does that mean Super Paper Mario is a bad game, no, its just false advertisement. Its not super 
 But hey I thought you said to buy this game? Well that's what you get when you just follow someone's 
 advice, you get confused, duh! I think that's what happened with Super Paper Mario. Someone was 
 like "hey, you know what guys since the Paper Mario series formula is working so well how about 
 we change it to try to make it better!"Then instead of slapping him or her, (idiotic ness knows 
 no sex) they said "That sounds GREAT!"I then imagine they danced. I find Super Paper Mario to be 
 the case of "If it ain't broke, don't fix it". It's a good game if you like story telling and the 
 Paper Mario series, but to me the mix game play acts like a double edged sword you either like 
 it or don't. I don't. So in other words, be cautious when thinking of purchasing this game, it's 
 a great story teller, but as a game, its average. It's safe just to rent it.
  
  The biggest problem I have with this game is the new way it makes the Paper Mario series play. 
 Im not too big of a fan of Turn Based RPG, but for some reason when it comes Mario and RPG, It 
 better be turned based!!! It works the opposite for final fantasy for meWhen I play a sequel to 
 a game, I kind of expect some type of way that it plays the same from its prequel. 
  I don't expect LoZ, Metriod, or Pokemon to change, change is bad to a series that overall is doing 
 well with the formula. Really big question here. WHY DID THEY CHANGE PAPER MARIO!!! I liked it the 
 way it was!!! I miss the way it plays, smells, and the way it turned based attacks. (POR QUE!) 
 Sorry, kind of lost it there. Point, it was not broken and Nintendo fixed it.
  
  -Luigi, should not be playable, it's a Mario RPG not Mario and Luigi RPG shut up, I liked superstar 
 saga.
  -RPG elements just there, they didn't really do anythingjust sat there looking pretty, especial 
 the items. Pretty pretty items
  ~TL; DR illness is in this game, buyer be aware, they secretly put a book in this game! How dare 
 they try to get us to read
  ~Dark. Seriously Snapping necks, Evil Luigi's, existence becoming nothing, Slavery,
  People dying, 
 Mind Control, and Evil Clowns. and that's only pasted chapter 5!
  +Humor, and lots of it. Witty remark here.
  +Story, although long reading awaits you, the story 
 is generally good, beware romantic is afoot!
  +Dimentio, enough said.
  +Mr. L, who the hell is this guy? I still cant figure it out
  ~Music, its sinister, seriously 
 I wont like to hear it in a back alley
  + OH SNAP! Moments wait Mr. L is!!!!
  +Characters, I know I mentioned two already, they just make this game remember able so much, but 
 really the whole cast in general is worth its weight in sitcom gold! Francis and Peach show, about 
 a nerd trying to get the princess, coming next fall!
  +Story, it's that good it needs to be mentioned again. And here too.
  
  
  
  
  
  ~ Game 
 play: honestly I find the only redeeming quality of this game is the story, which if you didn't 
 notice, I find amazing, twists, turns, and Luigi is important to the plot, now that's new for a 
 Mario game! As well the story is comparably darker then any other Mario game to date. So it plays 
 out more like a book then a game. However for the game it's self. It just didn't feel like it was 
 all there. Like a teenager, Super Paper Mario didn't know what to be so it decided to do both instead 
 of just one, being a plat former and RPG. You will either like it or meh for it. As well I liked 
 the old way to play too. So really the game play shouldn't have been changed from its predecessors 
 because if it was the same style I think it would have been a much better game. If it just stuck 
 to the way it was going instead of the way it turned out, we have another amazing installment in 
 the series. That's what hurts it, that's what it is, a double edge sword style of playing. It's 
 a yes or no, like it or don't like it attitude toward it, But at the very least the game play is 
 worth tolerating for the story. Cant wait till I find out who mr. L is!
  
  Next time Nintendo, just stick to the plan. We attack at dawn not noon.
  
  
  Super Paper 
 Mario is just one of those games that tries something new, and proofs that new is not always best 
 when you have something that works. You will either like or dislike the game play because of how 
 mixed it is. It's a new take on how the series is, so be aware that it may not be what you may 
 expect, or what you use to love about the seriesBut, don't let that shy you away from it. The 
 story is enough to make this game a little above average, maybe I'm favoring it a bit, but I still 
 remember how enjoyable the story was to me, sure at times I didn't want to play, but at the same 
 time I did because I wanted to see what happened next. Like when you don't want to read a book 
 but you want to know what happens. Spoiler alert good guys win. So if you don't know where you 
 stand on this game, rent it! If you like the stories of the Paper Mario games, it still has that 
 same charm, maybe even more then Paper Mario/Thousand Year Door. It's a great story but it is hindered 
 by awkward game play.
  
  So I suggest giving Super Paper Mario a rent, rather then a buy. Send money to me instead.
  
 
  (reviewed in 2008) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiifun
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 7:53 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is possibly one of the best Mario games out there. Trust me it is definitely 
 worth it!
  
  First of all, The Story! This game has one of the best plots of all the mario games. (or even non-Mario 
 games for that manner) The story line is very deep (for a Mario game) but it still keeps the classic 
 humor and feel of the previous games. (something I find very impessive) The focus of the story 
 is not all about saving the princess from Bowser (FINALLY!!!) Instead, this game is about an even 
 more horrible villain named Count Bleck. His plan is to destroy all of the worlds. 
  
  Mario learns that the only way to stop the chaos heart and Count Bleck is to collect all eight 
 pure hearts. Luckily, he is not alone in this journey. Through out the game he meets these creatures 
 called Pixels that follow him and grant him special abilities. For example, Boomer allows Mario 
 to drop bombs and Thudly allows Mario to do a ground pound. You will eventully be able to do other 
 Paper-Mario tricks such as make yourself thin.
  
  Flipping from 2D to 3D! This is a genuis gameplay mechanism. (I am kind of jealous I did not think 
 of it first! ) By pressing A you can flip to 3D. You only have a limited time in 3D and if you 
 spend to long you lose health. Sometimes you have to go 3D to get through but even if you don't 
 have to you still find yourself doing it. There are hidden treasures and rooms all through the 
 game that can only be found in 3d.
  
  
  The controller is held in a odd way. You hold it sideways. It is as cool as it sounds. If you think 
 it sounds extremely cool! It brings back fond memories. Motion sensing is used some. For example, 
 you can point at things to hear a description and it is used with the action commands for some 
 items.
  
  
  
  This game is realy one of the best one.
  
  Graphics:**
  Sound: 7
  Story: 10
  Gameplay: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guy_of_pie
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 8:37 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario for the Wii definitely has a solid storyline, arguably one of the best in any 
 game ever, and the characters save the pixls are amazing. The gameplay is different than the prequels, 
 but it's very nostalgic and reminiscent of Super Mario Bros., but with some RPG elements tacked 
 on. Some of the puzzles, however, get you used to an annoying formula for playing that is one of 
 this games greatest flaws. The Dimensional Flip is a terrible idea, and I'll explain why later 
 in this review.
  
  The story starts with the cliche of the Mario series, Peach getting kidnapped (You'd think she'd 
 be used to it by now) . Mario, of course, blames Bowser, and he and Luigi go to his castle to get 
 her back. After a funny bumble by one of Bowser's minions, it turns out that Peach isn't there, 
 and a mysterious figure by the name of Count Bleck arrives and transports Bowser and Luigi to a 
 wedding chapel where Peach happens to be, and Mario to a strange town called Flipside. At the chapel, 
 Bowser and Peach are forced to marry. This bond of hatred creates what is known as the Chaos Heart, 
 the first step in Count Bleck's plan to fulfill the prophecies written in the Dark Prognosticus. 
 Mario is then met by a recurring Paper Mario character, Merlon, who tells him that if he does not 
 gather the eight Pure Hearts, all worlds will be drawn into the void created by the aforementioned 
 Chaos Heart.
  
  The gameplay is indeed very nostalgic. It plays like a combination 2-D platformer RPG game. It 
 feels like what Paper Mario was meant to be - 2-D. You jump on enemies to damage them, or you can 
 use the ability of a pixl. I, personally, think the pixls are bland and outlive their use quickly. 
 Anyway, you can also point to the screen to gat information on stuff, or reveal hidden things. 
 As you proceed through the game, you'll meet back up with Peach, Luigi and Bowser, all of whom 
 you are able to switch to at anytime, each with their own unique abilities. Peach has her parasol, 
 which can be used as a shield or a parachute. No problems there. Bowser has his flame breath and 
 brute strength to rely on, he's very useful in combat. Luigi can jump. High. Mario has (ugh) the 
 Dimensional Flip. It allows him to flip from 2-D to 3-D for a limited time. It's very awkward. 
 The puzzles for it are either too easy or too hard, the camera means you can be ambushed easily 
 if you travel backwards, and there's almost always something to access in 3-D. So Mario will almost 
 always be the one you use, because no one likes to miss out on stuff.
  
  All in all, it's a good game, and the ending, while similar to Thousand-Year Door, simply blew 
 me away. I'm not going to recommend it, but I'm also not going to discourage you. Do what you will, 
 I say the storyline is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmi323
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2009 1:25 pm PT
Review:  While most might agree that Super Paper Mario doesn't quite live up to the standard set by The 
 Thousand-Year Door for the Gamecube, I actually enjoyed this iteration more. The shift towards 
 more of a platforming style of gameplay suits the game very well; it's the genre that Mario does 
 the best. The game's quirky sense of humour and interesting 2D-3D switches make this my favourite 
 Paper Mario yet. The light RPG elements are just enough to keep the game fresh, and the four playable 
 characters along with the different 'Pixls' give the game quite a bit of variety.
  
  However, there are a few problems. While in 2D, the game looks great, with a fantastic artstyle. 
 However, as you switch into 3D, the game gets downright ugly. The environments are bare at best, 
 and don't even compare to the 2D environments. Also, the game is definitely too easy. Some of the 
 pixls make the game very easy in combat (although you can always opt not to use them) and most 
 of the platforming elements are far too easy. However, if you are really looking for a challenge, 
 the optional Pit of 100 Trails will really offer some difficulty.
  
  In conclusion, Super Paper Mario is a great game that will keep you busy for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXcaped
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2009 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Instead of always saving the princess i like how they changed the story line. I like the gameplay 
 such as flipping between 2-D and 3-D it gives you different ways to view the map and find secrets 
 which i find very neat. Also i like the battle sysem where you can run around and simply jump on 
 their heads to kill them. That adds a little classic mario into it.
  
  I did finish the game pretty fast though which i'm somewhat disappointed in.
  
  I also like 
 how you can pick four characters even though you can only use one at a time which is sometimes 
 annoying and how each of them has a unique ability of its own. 
  
  The idea of those sidekicks are also unique because they each contain a different ability which 
 is essential for completing the game. 
  
  The graphics are nice and cartoon-ish which isn't bad. Overall this game is fun and i recommend 
 it for people who likes mario games but it tried of always saving the princess :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CastleCrasher64
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 30, 2009 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Ah, the Paper Mario series, full of strategy, humor, and class... or, so it was. Nintendo added 
 another game to the series, but I wish they hadn't. Super Paper Mario misses a lot of the things 
 that made the first two games great.
  First of all, it has nothing to do with strategy. I found that turn-by-turn attack system with 
 "action commands" very fun. It made a unique balance between the mindless button mashing of most 
 action games and the somewhat boring action select of strategy games. This game is pretty much 
 a make-over of Super Mario Bros. (which we already got from The New Super Mario Bros.) . 
  Second of all, only Mario can move up and down and that is only when he is in 3D mode, otherwise 
 the game is almost completely two-dimensional.
  Finally, it really lacked some of the bosses that made the first two great. Any gamer above five 
 years old would rather face a mysterious ice king than a magician in a robot designed by a four-year-old.
 
  
  So here I say, if you want to rent this game, by all means go ahead. If you want to play anything 
 remotely like the first two games, I'm afraid you will have to look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smetloos
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 20, 2009 3:53 am PT
Review:  The world is in danger of being consumed by The Void, a cloud of darkness created by Count Bleck. 
 And you have to save the world! Together with your buddies (Peach, Bowser and Luigi) and twelve 
 pixles you will have to gain yourself through 8 worlds, each consists out of 4 levels.
  
  The level design is great. Each world has its own specific elements and flipping from 2D to 3D 
 creates or unhides new doors and items. It is important that you flip everytime you enter a new 
 door, that is for sure. Besides flipping the level with Mario, has Peach a massive jump, Bowser 
 a powerful weapon and Luigi a very high jump. During the game you will have to change characters.
 
  
  Using the pixles is another great feature. They help you finishing each level. Tippi let's you 
 use your Wii remote by pointing it at the screen revealing a hidden door for example. There are 
 twelve pixles in total.
  
  Sometimes I found it a bit frustrating finding each Heart Pillar. I often get lost in the FlipperFloppersides. 
 Well, if that is the only thing... for the rest it is just a great game.
  
  This is the first Paper Mario I have ever played. Eventually I will get the rest of the series. 
 And reading those reviews, I guess they are better then this version. But for now, I am very happy 
 with this game.
  
  Ratings:
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 8
  Gameplay: 8,5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjhg53
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2009 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying how great this series is and how I look forward to another one. When 
 this series first began on the N64 it was one of my favorite games of al time. Of coruse I'm a 
 RPG fan so it almost means nothing but still the first was great. The second one was ok but it 
 was still missing something. But the thrid filled the gap and is great.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  
  The gameplay of Super Paper Mario is the best in the series. It brings back the RPG of the 
 first two but with a twist. You lose different people but gain things called pixces. They do the 
 same thing but just don't feel the same cause you get two out at all times. One is a infomation 
 one and the other is one you choose. Also something new you get to play as not only as Mario, but 
 also Peach, Bowser, and Luigi. Each have there own powers like Mario can go to 3D and back. Bowser 
 can blow fire and gets double the amount of attack. Peach can perform a long distance jump that 
 reaches places the other could not. And Luigi has a super high jump power. As you move through 
 the story you add different pixles and party members as you go and you can even unlock different 
 ones after you beat the games main story. Even after the main story is finished you still have 
 things to do. Like fighting 100 enemys without healing and so on. The last but best change is there 
 is no turn based fighting like the first two.
  
  Graphics: 9
  
  Wow and I mean it. These are some of the best graphics you can find for the Wii. It has it's own 
 cartoony feel to it as the other Paper Mario games to but this ones has many lively colors and 
 is just fun to look at. And it dares to push out of the 2D world, when in it, to 3D boss fights, 
 as in the boss is 3D.
  
  Sound: 8
  
  This has so good music to it. There is no voiceing but there is something, a stupid noise that 
 you wish you could turn off. Other then that it's great to listen to as it is to look at.
  
  Speed: 8
  
  Really the speed of the game depends on who you are playing as. If you're Mario 
 then you're moving at a good rate. But if you are Bowser you're moving at something like a step 
 every mintue. Ok it's not that slow but it's a good spedd lower then Marios speed. Other things 
 like cut scenes and just random talking slws the game down a bit but overall it has a very nice 
 speed to it.
  
  Overall: 8.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chakkerz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 1:58 pm PT
Review:  SPM is good fun, even addictive, but has a few problems. Some puzzles are just very very obscure, 
 in the the RPG elements just don't ... gel with the game world. Ok so you can talk to people, but 
 having to talk to them at certain points just seems not to make sense. The hint systems work but 
 often just are too ... again, obscure.
  
  Also the save system is occasionally very unforgiving with no save points for too long a stretch. 
 It doesn't reach the point of frustrating, because the skill requirements to get back to where 
 you were are of the nature, once you've mastered them, it really doesn't take a lot.
  
  Despite it's problems, it is a great game and let none of what i (or others) have said discourage 
 you, there are not that many platform games around anymore, and this is one of the shining examples 
 of how it should be done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonGal711
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2009 1:46 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed playing the previous versions of Paper Mario, and when I saw this coming out, I hoped 
 it was going to live up to the others. It certainly maintained it's reputation.
  
  Fighting the battles on a stage was an interesting way to go, though I preferred the manner they 
 did in this one, which is you simply fight them in the same habitat you were walking through. It's 
 much smoother in my opinion.
  
  The controls are a bit odd (I didn't like having to turn the controller just to point at the screen) 
 but manageable. Once you start getting into the game though, you hardly notice it. It does get 
 a bit repetitive at times, but so did Thousand Year Door so I suppose it's just part of the series 
 design.
  
  All in all, it has an interesting story concept (even if it is a bit predictable) , an unique way 
 of combining 3D in their 2D setting, and has plenty of things that will interest someone with an 
 open mind to this sort of gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RowCla
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 2:30 am PT
Review:  paper mario was a great game allowing the player to have great fun in exploring and battling, and 
 paper mario the thousand year door did this even better.
  
  Super paper mario however was just under the standards of its ancestors and may have been done 
 better if they had looked into the small troubles of things like passages being too small.
  
  Probably the biggest change in super paper mario is the battling, in the previous games when 
 you touched an enemy you would go into a big scene and would be made to select the attacks you 
 want to do. now however all you do is go up to them and jump, use an item or use a pixl (a sort 
 fairy thing with a unique power) on them.
  
  the story is quite interesting though relatively predictable but none the less it is quite good.
 
  
  All in all super paper mario is a good game worth buying and is in my opinion worthy of the score 
 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zh666
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 1:27 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario was a fantastic game and much better than I had expected. Well, I expected it 
 to be good, but not this good. My fears was the platforming actually. I was expecting it to be 
 a clunky mess like in the other two games, where platforming takes the backseat. However, Super 
 Paper Mario takes a que from the early Mario games and runs with it. 
  
  I had a couple problems with the game, but it hardly stopped me from enjoying it. I wish there 
 was more NPCs in the game with bigger personalities. I think the 3D elements was a big clunky, 
 but hardly something worth chatting about. No voices overs. That's about it. 
  
  Otherwise, fantastic writing, beautiful graphics, and nice controls. I don't think this is better 
 than the previous Paper Mario games, but it's still solid all around.
  
  ----------Battle System ----------
  Super Paper Mario takes the simplified RPG elements of past 
 Paper Mario titles, the platforming elements of the early Mario games with a dash of puzzle solving. 
 That easily sums up Super Paper Mario in a nutshell, but it's deeper than that. 
  
  You gain experience points after each monster you kill. If you kill two monsters in a row, then 
 the experience points will double. Once you hit a special set of experience points you'll gain 
 a level. Unlike the previous Paper Mario games, you won't have a choice in which skill you want 
 to upgrade. Rather, you will either gain 5 Max HP or 1 Attack. It rotates between the two after 
 each level. Another thing that they changed from the previous Paper Mario games are the badges, 
 they took them away. I don't know why because I liked the badges. It added a bit more strategy 
 to the game. It's not that big of a deal though. With the badges gone, they added something new 
 though. You can find or buy cards of every monster in the game. When you get a card, it will double 
 your attack against them. 
  
  The most obvious change in the game is it's no longer a turn-based game. Super Paper Mario is almost 
 like a standard platforming Mario game. Like the previous Paper Mario games, you'll encounter a 
 ton of puzzles. With each new area, you'll gain a Pixl, this is almost a replacement for weapons 
 or partners. Each Pixl has one skill, for example the Boomer can blow up walls or enemies, while 
 Slim can make you skinny like paper. There's 8 main Pixl to find with a few extra ones along the 
 way. 
  
  Not only will you have Pixls to use in battle, but you'll also bring along Princess Peach, Bowser 
 and one other character. Each of these characters have one special ability. Mario has the ability 
 to flip the world into 3D space, Peach can float long distances, and Bowser can breathe fire. To 
 switch between the characters you have to go into your menu and choose them. This is kinda annoying. 
 I mean, they don't even use the B button, why couldn't they have used that button for a quick change 
 between the characters? Oh well.
  
  Flipping into 3D is the big change. In the first two Paper Mario titles the world was quasi-3D 
 while the characters were 2D giving the trademark Paper look. In Super Paper Mario, everything 
 is 2D, but Mario can change that perspective by flipping into 3D. This adds a huge element to the 
 puzzle solving and exploring. My only problem with this is combat within 3D is a bit clunky. However, 
 you can't be in 3D forever, so once you flip into 3D, a timer slowly ticks down. Once it reaches 
 zero, you'll lose 1 HP and the timer will restart. 
  
  The platforming is actually much better than I expected. The platforming in the early Paper Mario 
 games were kinda clunky, but I loved the platforming in this. 
  
  The Wiimote functions are few and far between. You can point at the screen with your Wiimote to 
 search for hidden items, or to read about an enemies status. There are also minigames you can play 
 at an arcade within the town. Also, when you use items, you have to play a quick-time event mini-game 
 to correctly use said item.
  
  There's a ton of sidequests you can do in the game. You can collect Cards, Maps, Recipes and other 
 assorted items. After you beat the game you can go back and find new skills or unlock new areas. 
 
  
  
  ----------Characters / Story ----------
  You play as Mario of course. Just as Bowser kidnaps Princess Peach and forces her into marriage, 
 a new bad guy shows up. Count Bleck shows up, sends everyone into a new Pixel world, and starts 
 to brainwash everyone in sight, while a mysterious Black Void shows up in the world. Mario escapes, 
 and takes his revenge by collecting Pure Hearts to stop Count Bleck's madness.
  
  While the plot is nothing special (no Mario RPGs have strong plots) , it's the dialog that shines 
 in this game. This is easily the funniest game I played all year, or atleast the funniest game 
 I played since the last Paper Mario game. I can't think of a single game that attempts humor and 
 actually achieves it outside of the Mario RPGs. Super Paper Mario is what you would expect with 
 that, plus some. 
  
  The only real disappointment with the story is the lack of NPC in the game. For example, in the 
 last Paper Mario game for the Gamecube, the town was FULL of characters to talk to, each character 
 had their own personality and they always say hilarious stuff. Super Paper Mario has that too, 
 but there's only one true town in this game. You'll run into a couple mini-towns inside the dungeons, 
 but hardly anyone is worth talking to or remembering. That's really my only beef with the game. 
 It need better NPCs. 
  
  
  ----------Graphics ----------
  The graphics are amazing, or atleast the style of them. The colors are bold, the pixels are sharp. 
 I can't think of a single blemish on this game. It just looks darn pretty. All characters are fully 
 animated and constantly moving no matter what. They put a TON of detail into this game. 
  
  
  ----------Sound ----------
  Once again there are no voice overs, but all the main characters 
 have that Nintendo patented personality sound clips that the characters grunt out. There's a ton 
 of dialog in this, so I can see why there's no total voice acting, however I think they need to 
 atleast give some characters full voice clips. Otherwise, the music and sound effects are top notch. 
 
  
  
  ----------World Map ----------
  The map is a bit different than the previous two Paper Mario games. In those games, you started 
 off in a single town, and progressed to other ones with dungeons in between. In Super Paper Mario, 
 there is one giant Hub town with all the stores and NPC within it. The town is massive and there's 
 a ton of secrets and things to do in it. You don't have free range with the town right away though, 
 so the more skills and partners you get, the more of the town you can unlock. 
  
  The goal of the game is to collect Pure Hearts, after you complete a chapter, you gain a Pure Heart. 
 Pure Hearts are used to create new gates to find the next Pure Heart. Almost each Chapter in the 
 game flows in a linear 1-1, 1-2, -1-3, and finally 1-4 level structure made famous in the original 
 Mario bros. games. It makes the game a little predictable in the structuring, but there's plenty 
 of things to do and secrets to find in each level. 
  
  Once you start a Chapter, you can leave it at any moment with a special item called the "Red Pipe". 
 If you leave your current level with the Red Pipe, you will have to re-start the entire thing over 
 again when you jump back in. However, if you beat a Chapter, you can go back to that level at any 
 stage you want. 
  
  
  ----------Time to Complete Game ----------
  24:43
  
  The game ended up being longer than I had expected. However, that's not a bad thing. After you 
 beat the game and watch the credits, you can save. After that, you can continue on with the game 
 and finish sidequests and unlock new ones, just like the previous Paper Mario game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: papermariopal
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  in the third Paper Mario series game moves in the right direction taking advantage of the wii mote. 
 3-D flipping is just one of all the features available. fell stuck? try a flip. the new catch card 
 system adds an extra challenge to catch or buy them. The new bosses also add fun. there are also 
 now 4 characters to play as, each one has a different ability. with Luigi, Peach, and Bowser each 
 playing an important role, this game takes you from outer space to a modern world. Mario goes on 
 to challenge Count Bleck, the villain in this story. with his trusty pixils at his side, Mario 
 sets out to stop him. you'll face bosses from Dragons to giand spiders and geeks to the living 
 dead. the graphics are great, its easy to laern how to play and the bottom line, whether you liked 
 the first two or not, this is an awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hememi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 4:48 am PT
Review:  this game seems to be an excellent game i would not say it was that but it is still very fun. i 
 gave it an eight because i liked the story part there are many secrets in the game and features 
 luigi peach and bowser along with new characters some levels are very nice and bosses are the best 
 even though a great game it has its flaws it has been turned more into a basic mario game and the 
 rpg parts are almost gone it no longer features helpers instead pixls. one of my favorite parts 
 is mr l he rules and adds about half a number to my evaluation and adds a very nice touch with 
 story which rules. but overall the game is great and is a suggestion for any mario fan the endddddddddddd 
 i cant come up with more so this review is  ............................ 
 ............................. ........................ ........................... ........................... 
 ........................ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smchacko
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 16, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  ======== Story ========
  
  Count Bleck, has created a void which will swallow all the worlds. Mario must set out to collect 
 "pure hearts" to put an end to Bleck's plan.
  
  ======== Quick Review ========
  
  Good
  
  - great artistic presentation
  - colorful and vibrant visuals
  - flipping between 
 2D / 3D views
  - great music
  
  Bad
  
  - on the easy side
  - puzzles lack depth
  - collecting extras can be a pain
  - not much use of motion controls
  
  ======== Details 
 ========
  
  Super Paper Mario plays across 8 chapters each with 4 sub-chapters.
  
  Gameplay is blend of simple RPG elements and classic mario platforming. Each level follows the 
 usual platformer style of jumping on enemies to inflict damage. Mario will be levelling up through 
 points scored by stomping enemies and collecting items.
  
  As the game progresses players will use Mario, Peach, Bowser and Luigi. Each has a unique ability 
 required to solve puzzles.
  
  Overall SPM is very easy. Even the boss battles are a breeze.
  
  ======== Pixls ========
 
  
  There are "helper" characters called "pixls". When a pixl is equipped it adds a special ability. 
 For example: "Thoroau" can pick up enemies and toss them, "Boomer" can lay detonatable bombs, "Slim" 
 makes Mario paper thin and "Carrie" acts as a kind of hover pad to move across dangerous terrain 
 unharmed. There are 12 pixls in total (13 to be EXACT) ; many locations require certain pixls to 
 progress. They're fun to use but not all of them are used often.
  
  ======== Side Quests ========
  
  There are a number of side quests to undergo and several collectibles 
 including "catch cards" (cards with info on different characters and enemies) and "recipes" which 
 are cooked up using combinations of items. Collecting them all can take quite some time.
  
  One of the worst points of SPM is that when buying cards, there's no way to check what cards Mario 
 needs to complete the collection except by searching through the long list! It would have been 
 helpful for there to be a checkmark beside a card when buying from a shop. The same goes for recipes. 
 The recipe data center could have put a checkmark beside completed recipes to ease the task.
  
  ======== Wii Remote ========
  
  The Wii remote is held sideways buttons 1 and 2 used, 1 
 to activate pixls and 2 to jump. The unique motion controls are used sparingly. Sometimes Mario 
 will get stunned and the remote must be shaken to wake him up. Some items require the remote to 
 be aligned at a certain angle and some require drawing circles on the screen. Not much depth here. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioboy333
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  The game is really good. i was thinking if paper mario is good why not try this one. I am kind 
 of glad they took out the rpg in it. It kind of got annoying to do a battle every time. The game 
 play is very, very, very fun. The characters are cool the bosses are cool. The controls are fun to 
 use. the new enemies are cool. The new bad guy is good. I was getting tired of the bad guy always 
 being bowser.
  
  The new idea about switching from 3d to 3d is awesome. I like how the game looks at 3d. The places 
 are sweet. The bosses again are stunning. The first one is really cool. it is this dragon thing. 
 I rented this game, bu ti wished i bought it. In this game u get to play as paper luigi. The last 
 level i am warining you it is long and had. The mini bosses are fun. The music is okay. I really 
 like the mini bos music.
  
  This game is wort buyng. you will have lots of fun with it. I couldn't see the whole endong because 
 my bro took it before i was done. This game would be a great chirstmas gift. This game you will 
 not be dissappointed. Also the envirments are cool. They are also very colorful. Well have a nice 
 day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thunderhorse55
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  This game is fun, but a lot of the puzzles and riddles are painfully obvious, and when it isn't 
 as obvious (note that I said "not AS obvious") the little butterfly that follows you around tells 
 you exactly what to do. It is still a fun game with humorous graphics and and some pretty cool 
 stuff to do, like turn sideways and blow stuff up at the push of a button. It is a side-scrolling 
 game that one would think might be pretty boring, but it really isn't bad. An unforgivable problem, 
 however, is the fact that if you add all the cut scenes and dialogue together, you will find that 
 it probably makes up about half of the game itself. It is so annoying having to sit for any length 
 of time between 30 seconds to 10 minutes reading what characters are saying. Besides these flaws 
 in the game, it is still a very fun game that I recommend to fans of the mario crowd. Just as long 
 as you aren't looking for "Legend of Zelda difficulty" puzzles and have the time to sit down for 
 half the game figuring out the some-what lame story line. It is still fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Engranag
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  "Super Paper Mario" is the third chapter in the Paper Mario series of games. It all started on 
 the good old N64. The game had a sequel on the Game Cube. Now, this one, was also going to be released 
 on the Cube, but it was ultimately released on the Wii.
  
  The story in this one is quite simple, but also interesting: the evil Count Bleck in an evil... 
 count who wants to destroy all worlds using the dark Chaos Emerald... Dah... I mean the Chaos Heart!. 
 It all starts like a tipic Paper Mario day, but there's a lot of character developement as the 
 game progresses, especially in Bleck himself.
  
  "Super Paper Mario", unlike its predecessors, is actually an old-school platform with RPG elements 
 that appeared in previous games of the series. Exp points, HP, and other "RPG-things" are completely 
 usual in this game. "Switch" is, however, the real "name" of this chapter. Most of the game's puzzles 
 must be solved by literally switching from 2D to 3D and also allows the player to easily manuever 
 around obstacles impassable in the 2D (such as pipes) . For this reason, it has been often described 
 as the first "5D" platformer in some reviews (not including this one) ..
  
  During the game you will be able to play with other "classic" characters, including Bowser and 
 Luigi. Each character have one special ability, but Mario is the only one who is able to switch 
 between 2D and 3D.
  
  If you're a Mario fan, then you'll probably going to love this game, just don't expect "the best" 
 Mario game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonNinja
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 11:33 pm PT
Review:  The Paper Mario games have always stood out as shockingly unique. They have been the one Mario 
 spin-off that didn't involve sports or kart racing, but above all else, they matched the charm 
 and beauty of the actual Mario platformers, crafting far more memorable stories as opposed to the 
 platformers' "get the star to save the princess" plots. Paper Mario may very well have been the 
 last great Nintendo game on the N64 and Paper Mario: The Thousand Year Door did the unexpected 
 by not only being better than the GameCube's Mario platformer, Sunshine, but by being one of the 
 best GameCube games ever released.
  
  But Super Paper Mario is a whole different beast when compared to the other two Paper Mario games. 
 It has a bit of an identity crisis, which some people will view as a good thing and others as a 
 not-so-good thing. Based on the name alone it should be obvious that Super Paper Mario intends 
 on being a sort of homage to the Super Mario Bros. games. It has more in common with the 2D platformers 
 rather than the Mario RPGs. However, once you open up your menu you'll see the RPG elements, from 
 selecting which party member to use, which Pixl (more on these guys later) to use or which items 
 to use at any given time.
  
  The game is good, despite the first two chapters being a bit boring; the game picks up from the 
 third chapter and just manages to craft a unique platforming experience. The game introduces the 
 ability to flip between dimensions allowing Mario to flip from 2D to 3D at any given time. With 
 that ability in tow you'll begin your adventure hopping and bopping in 2D and flipping into 3D 
 to explore.
  
  The biggest problem with the gameplay though is that the platforming is nowhere near the level 
 of the actual 2D Mario's. While it is fun to play in 2D, there's no denying that the game's level 
 design is nowhere near as well done as say, Super Mario World for the SNES or Super Mario Bros. 
 3 for the NES. The worlds, particularly towards the end, become so complicated, and sometimes even 
 involve backtracking, that you'll often get lost rather than stuck. A great feeling in Paper Mario 
 is getting stuck, solving a puzzle and then continuing onward. A horrible feeling is getting lost 
 and trying to figure out what to do to proceed. When the game works, it's great, though not as 
 great as the actual platformers, and when it doesn't, it isn't like it's bad, but it's just that 
 in a Paper Mario game things shouldn't go bad. There's a level of quality that's been established 
 since 2001 and it shouldn't be messed with.
  
  However, there is one giant amount of praise that can be thrown at the game and those are the controls. 
 There is no nunchuk use for Super Paper Mario, you merely hold the Wii Remote sideways as you would 
 an NES/SNES controller and play the game. The simplicity of it all makes Super Paper Mario feel 
 better than it should. There are a few portions where you'll shake the Wii Remote or point it at 
 the screen, but they don't feel out of place at all. Just using the Wii Remote sideways works perfectly 
 for this game and realizing that simplicity in controls can indeed make for a better game definitely 
 helps Super Paper Mario in the long run.
  
  You won't play through the adventure alone though. Aside from Mario and his level-5 'stache, whose 
 dimension flipping abilities make him best (and often necessary) for finding secrets, you'll come 
 across the fair and beautiful Princess Peach whose ability is to use her parasol to float across 
 great distances, the arm-flailing terror of the Mushroom Kingdom (yes folks, you know which bad 
 boy I'm talking about) , Bowser the King of the Koopas comes as the team's heavy-hitter, doing double 
 the damage of the others and breathing fire on foes. Last but not least is Luigi and he's his bro's 
 bro, he comes with the ability to super-jump. These four characters round out all of the playable 
 characters in the game and their meeting in the story is somewhat bizarre, though often hilarious.
 
  
  Count Bleck, the main baddy is out to destroy all worlds and the only way to do that is to find 
 the Chaos Heart. So how is he supposed to do that? Simple, by marrying Bowser and Peach (it's clear 
 to see why the world would end if that were to happen though) , and after he gains it, it's up to 
 Mario to relocate his friends and worst enemy and stop Count Bleck from destroying the universe 
 by collecting the eight Pure Hearts. 
  
  The game sets up a simple and predictable story. If by the end of Chapter 3 or 4 you don't realize 
 what's going on than you're probably impressed by just about anything. Of course, the game retains 
 its charm and towards the end becomes a bit more of a touching experience than I would have imagined, 
 but a handful of plot-twists twenty minutes before the ending of the game don't really cut it for 
 great story-telling. Considering how grand, beautiful and memorable The Thousand Year Door's plot 
 was, it's a shame that Super Paper Mario can't live up to that game's legacy.
  
  During the game you'll come across various Pixls, these are fairy-like creatures that basically 
 give you abilities that you'll occasionally use. Their implementation into the game isn't well 
 done at all and many of them are one time use. They speak only once when you first meet them and 
 otherwise remain silent throughout the entire game. That and they all look absolutely horrible 
 and out of place next to Mario. Again though, they are necessary to the game, though their implementation 
 should have been done better.
  
  Most disappointing of all though is the utter lack of lovable side-characters. From the salty bo-bomb 
 Papatch to the perky little Goombella, the adorable Vivian and the bashful Koops and so many more. 
 The lack of side-characters, each with their own story and goal is a shame. Of course, implementing 
 side-characters into a platformer is a tall order, but it is missed nonetheless.
  
  The game is set for the most part in Flipside, the hub town in Super Paper Mario, playing the same 
 role as The Thousand Year Door's Roguetown. You'll make little discoveries, buy items, and interact 
 with townsfolk and the like. However, the world of Super Paper Mario isn't an appealing world. 
 The visuals are just lazy, particularly when it comes to other characters. Yes, Mario and co. look 
 fantastic and the old-school Mario enemies ranging from Goombas to Koopas all look great too, but 
 it's the original characters and enemies in the game that are atrocious. The character-design is 
 horribly ugly and whoever thought it was a good idea to set a Mario game in a world with a bunch 
 of square-headed folks with springs for bodies need to snap back into reality and remember what 
 made the other Paper Mario games so special. But overall, the visuals seem lazy, even for some 
 of the levels, particularly when you flip into 3D and explore bland environments.
  
  The music on the other hand is spectacular. Every tune feels right at home and if you aren't bopping 
 around to the tune in the end credits while on your chair than you don't know good music. The actual 
 sound-effects feel dated, but then again, if you're begging for realistic sound-effects from a 
 Paper Mario game you'd probably need to get your gaming priorities straight.
  
  With a load of humor and in-jokes abound (one portion will give you a taste of what it's like to 
 play a Japanese dating sim with Peach choosing the responses while another feels like a Pokemon 
 battle or a text adventure) , Super Paper Mario offers up variety and good times. While it isn't 
 as deep as the actual RPGs, it's still a great game, clocking in at around twenty hours it's well 
 worth the $50 asking price. I wouldn't go so far as to call Super Paper Mario a must-own title, 
 but if you're looking for a good game it's one to consider and of course, fans of Mario will adore 
 it. It may be a couple of notches below the RPGs and it may be a couple of notches below the actual 
 platformers, but despite that, the game is still fun and may very well keep you playing for hours 
 on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrubeingcool13
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  What made the first two Paper Mario games so good were the character development and the storyline. 
 This game takes away both of those aspects. Super Paper Mario replaces Mario's sidekicks with bland 
 helpers named pixels. They are essential for completing the game but have no personality. Most 
 are named after what their specialty is. For example, Thoreau (throw) , is the pixel that you can 
 throw, how original. What happened to partners with personality, like the explosive Bombette, the 
 fraidy cat Koops, or the tough Yoshi kid? The partner's charm is completely gone. The characters 
 in the game that you meet are lackluster at best. They are just boring compared to the natives 
 from the Mushroom Kingdom. 
  
  The story of this game doesn't have anything to do with Mario. Mario's main partner Tippi got separated 
 from her true love so he's going to destroy the world. Its just not the same as saving the princess 
 from Bowser. The Thousand Year Door started to stray away from the Princess being kidnapped by 
 Bowser, but at least Mario had the satisfaction of saving her.
  
  Flipping into 3d is a gimmick that doesn't work. The charm of the other Paper Mario games came 
 in the form of 2d characters in a 3d world. This design looked amazing. But SPM ruins this completely 
 by being able to flip into 3d with an awkward camera change instead of just keeping the classic 
 formula. The fighting system was also tinkered with and was made ridiculously easy. the way to 
 defeat a boss in the game was not a turn based fight, but instead, just a few jumps on the boss's 
 head will do it. 
  
  Fans of the Paper Mario series should probably rent this one first, it's not a bad game but it 
 lacks the heart that made the other Paper Mario games so successful.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hippoboy56
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 19, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Paper mario is a series that deserves a place in the gaming hall of fame. Well, the first two anyway.
 
  
  I am astounded at what they did to ruin the paper mario series. I loved the first two but this 
 one is just terrible. They completely removed the rpg elements the series was known for, and made 
 the battles real time! And the items are crap. You use them in real time against the lackluster 
 enimies. The only creative thing they put in was the ability to turn the screen sideways. The bosses 
 are dull to. You just try to hit them. The game lacks the strategy of the first two games with 
 the badges and the special moves. The only cool part about this game is playing as bowser, but 
 its not enough to make up for this horrible game. Take my word for it, if you liked the first two 
 paper mario games then you will be completely disappointed with this. I only hope the next one 
 brings back the rpg elements.
  
  ugh...... so bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blazakenki
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Im not gonna say it sucked right away, becuz at first it was really fun but after its a let down 
 its a love story between 2 obvious characters you could see a mile away, and they took out Turn-Based 
 from the one on gamecube and N64 ,now its just like a old mario game but on wii and SLIGHTLY more 
 well made, and the story is good, but it could be have been so much better, like the one on gamecube 
 and N64 the story was good AND funny this one just had the funny, my favorite chapters were chapter 
 four (When geeks attack) and (downtown of crag) were my favorite because of the characters. what 
 is with your collecting of pure hearts? could mario get anymore gayer?
  but overall i just loved the crags
  Need more characters so heres some spam for all!!!!! looool 
 , sooo ,gooo and hooo looo dooo wooo pop bogoo ahooo ahem.
  loo gooo tooo yooo nooo buuu dduuu fuuu fgeuuu asuuu fufff xdeee 
  assd feasf H
  Trhrdth 
 
  Htrhtrh htrfh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marshmallow900
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  The Bad: Super Paper Mario is in its own right a very solid game, yet the "Paper" part of it should 
 be dropped. What I mean by this is as follows: this is more of a Super Mario game rather than a 
 Paper Mario game. Don't get me wrong, the platforming style of game was a nice touch, but I just 
 miss the turned based battles. 
  Otherwise this is a decent game worth a buy, just don't go in thinking this will be like previous 
 Paper Marios.
  
  The Good: It still upholds the charm that the other two Paper Marios had. The ability to control 
 four different characters ( Mario, Luigi, Bowser and Peach) and using their abilities to move along 
 in your adventure. Your new sidekicks are a little redundant (all are Pixl creatures) but their 
 abilities are interesting and fun to use. And finally, it is wrapped up with a nice compelling 
 story.
  
  Final Verdict: Yeah, its worth a buy, it is a good platforming and strategy game. But if your thinking 
 this like the other Paper Mario installments, you are sorely mistaken.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: red0584
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 8, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario for the Wii is dissapointing. Paper Mario for the N64 and Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year 
 Door for GC were RPGs, and now this game has a battle system kind of close to Final Fantasy XII 
 or Pokemon Mystery Dungeon. Except, the battle sytem doesn't make you wait a little to attack, 
 you just attack when you want. It's just so dull. The game is also annoying in some parts. And 
 I mean VERY annoying. TTYD was great with the length and storyline and gameplay, and this is great 
 with waisting your 50 or so bucks. I'll admit, it WAS fun for like the first day or two, but now 
 I fear having to play it. Some parts like the dungeons or whatever you want to call them are hard, 
 but things like the last boss battle are so annoyingly easy. So anyone reading this remember: Don't 
 buy it. Use your 50 dollars on something like Mario Kart Wii or The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess.
 
  
  4 out of 10
  
  -red0584 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  This is an important title for the moustachioed maestro. As the first 'proper' Mario title on the 
 Wii, Super Paper Mario is the game Mario fans have all been waiting for, and should it fail to 
 deliver, it's going to be a blow that will take a while to recover from.
  
  Thankfully, for the most part, these concerns aren't an issue. As an overall package, Super Paper 
 Mario is a clever, colourful, funny title that Mario fans will lap up with joy. However, there 
 are still a few niggles that are annoying enough to potentially become an issue.
  
  Before looking at these though, let's focus on the good points, of which there are thankfully many. 
 First and foremost, the game looks incredible from start to finish. From the huge crowd scene in 
 the intro sequence, to the way the game 'draws in' each level before starting, to the fantastically 
 clever and much-hyped '2D to 3D' ability, everything is so artistically stylish that you'll be 
 tempted to pause the game at times and place a picture frame around your telly.
  
  
  You're Having A Laugh!
  Ultimately though, it's not the graphics that'll win you over, it's the 
 dialogue. Simply put, Super Paper Mario has one of the wittiest and funniest scripts you'll ever 
 come across in a game. It's one of the most referential games we've ever played and it's constantly 
 poking fun at itself, its characters, other games and even other gamers, the key example of this 
 being the level set in the mansion of a giant frog named Francis who happens to be a huge gaming 
 geek. Francis loves collecting anime video tapes, has programmed robots to fetch him his latest 
 manga issues, and loves going on the internet to criticise games he's never played (a clever little 
 dig at the online anti-Nintendo fanboys there) , and his level is the clear highlight of the game 
 for any hardcore gamers who will get all the in-jokes.
  
  As a result of this witty dialogue, the game feels more like the Mario & Luigi games on the DS 
 and GBA in terms of comedy. Whether it's Mario being told he has a "level 5 moustache" or some 
 Goombas asking Bowser to join Mario and Peach to save the day, whereas in reality they just want 
 him out of the castle so they can have a party, the whole game will have you chuckling like a loon 
 throughout its 20-or-so hour duration.
  
  There are also heaps of old-school Mario references for die-hard Nintendo fans, such as the Starman 
 which turns your character into a huge 2D sprite, or the stage which perfectly replicates World 
 1-2 of Super Mario Bros. The game feels more like a celebration of all things Mario, and it's a 
 treat to play at times.
  
  
  Of course, a funny and nostalgic game's no use if it plays like a dog, so thankfully there aren't 
 too many problems in this area either, mainly thanks to the countless innovative gameplay twists 
 thrown into the mix. Among the most initially impressive moves (and the one you'll use the most) 
 is the much-touted ability to flip the screen from 2D to 3D, allowing you to see the stage from 
 a whole new perspective and uncover hidden passageways and clues. The first time you do this, we 
 guarantee you'll be grinning from ear to ear, since it's such a simple idea yet, at the same time, 
 such a revolutionary one in terms of Mario platforming. Suddenly you realise you'll have to rethink 
 the way you handle the game's puzzles.
  
  Tearing Up The Rulebook
  Unfortunately, while there are many other abilities to be unlocked, none of them match this in 
 terms of originality or innovation. Instead, most of it is standard platform fare, such as the 
 ability to place bombs, the ability to grab and throw enemies, or the ability to jump and perform 
 a ground smash. While this is no bad thing, it's still a slight disappointment when you meet a 
 new Pixl (the floating little sprites that give you these abilities) only to realise you're only 
 being given the ability to run quicker (something which, this being a Mario game after all, should 
 have been available from the start) .
  
  Inevitably though, we have to come to those aforementioned annoying niggles. The overall feeling 
 as you play is one of a game suffering from identity crisis. It can't work out whether it's a platformer 
 or an RPG title, and while that's not always a bad thing in gaming, here the two styles don't ever 
 feel like they merge properly. Killing enemies makes your character level up, but other than an 
 increase in hit points and a negligible rise in attack power, levelling up is a pretty pointless 
 experience. Considering it also takes an age to gain enough experience points to level up, we'd 
 have hoped for it to feel like more of a meaningful achievement, rather than a case of "oh, that's 
 nice."
  
  
  The various RPG tasks also feel out of place. You'll spend an hour playing through some great platform 
 stages with loads of action and hidden secrets, then, once you finish the chapter, suddenly all 
 the action packs in as you're asked to roam about the game's central hub area for half an hour 
 trying to find some soup for Peach. It's frustrating that, after playing through some truly innovative 
 and charming platform stages, you're then made to take part in the sort of 'find items by talking 
 to the right people' gameplay that felt old back in the days of Dizzy on the NES.
  
  Also annoying is the wildly varying quality of the game's levels. Whereas the first few worlds 
 are bright and colourful and full of quirky little moments that will have you giggling away, and 
 the aforementioned Francis level is a joy to play with its hilarious game geek references, some 
 stages are so dull and pointless it's hard to believe they were created by the same people. The 
 space stage involves slowly floating around a maze-like stage and is as dull as dishwater, and 
 a later level sees you having to kill 99 samurai, which may sound fun but is extremely repetitive.
 
  
  On The Flipside
  All said, Super Paper Mario is an entertaining game which offers plenty of laughs and originality. 
 Maybe the fact we're moaning about the 'normal' bits is actually a testament to how well it does 
 the unique stuff. But the harsh reality is that while for the most part this is a great laugh to 
 play, there are certain times throughout the game (usually anything involving the main town of 
 Flipside) where it feels like a bit of a chore and you no longer feel like you're having fun. It's 
 like wanting to go and play football but your mum making you do the washing-up first. Luckily the 
 good outweighs the bad but it could have been so much sweeter.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankDK1995
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  really good game. not as good as the previous paper mario games, but is still a good game. one 
 thing I really dont like about this game is that you dont get to engage in battle. most people 
 dont like it, but I like the style of fighting where you can take your time choose items and what 
 to do. and also, super paper mario is easy. fighting wise anyways. i dont think i have died once 
 in this game. honestly! and on this game you get pixls. but heck I really miss getting goombario 
 and kooper and all those awesome guys you can have as partners that actually get to FIGHT! and 
 there is some awesome gameplay in the game I have to admit considering you play as bowser! thats 
 another thing I dont like about it. bowser just suddenly turns good?! what the heck. I like bowser 
 being the enemy not that weird dark dimension guy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flightofdragon
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this game ROCKS!!!!!! I love playing it and when I do, I can't stop until I've beaten the boss 
 at the end of each level. Level designs are well thought out and it's just so fun to play on. I 
 love it how you could play as peach, bowser or luigi! Gamespot complains about the music and little 
 crap but who cares about the music?! It's the gameplay that makes this game so fun and awesome! 
 The bosses aren't too hard or easy (except for the last one, that's hard but it's supposed to be... it's 
 the final boss!) and they look great! Being a paper game, besides the backrounds, this game doesn't 
 have to have good graphics because it's paper, right?! The enemies are fun and I love it that if 
 you're in a hurry, you can go into 3d and pass by them unscathed! 3d is very fun but I agree with 
 Gamespot when they say that the camera can get bit tricky at times but that's never bothered me 
 before. One thing bad, is that I wish they would've made the style points more important in this 
 game. In the Paper Mario for the Gamecube style would rarely mean life or death but oh well. I 
 love The Thousand Year Door a lot too because it was so good! This game is definetly a must get 
 for all wii fans!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Petruvai
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  I'll get this out of the way first, I LOVE MARIO! However, this is the weakest of all the Mario 
 games that I have played (I don't play mario party games, mario sports games, etc) . The gameplay 
 in this game is really fun, it's like Super Mario 3 or Super Mario World with a twist here and 
 there as well as some really fun ideas that harken back to the NES days. My favorite is when you 
 get a star in the game, rather than just blink for a minute and anything you touch dies, you grow 
 into a huge pixelated version of the original Mario from the first game and you crush everything 
 that you step into. FUN!!! The worst part of the game is the extensive sections where the 'story' 
 progresses. Don't get me wrong, the story is decent, but the talking takes up too much time in 
 the game. It's not just talking it's scrolling dialogue with a typewriter sound going as the words 
 appear on the screen. At first it's not that bad but it gets tiring really fast when you just want 
 to play the game. I really should rate this game lower, but I still love playing as Mario in games. 
 . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paper_Jellly
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 3:07 am PT
Review:  Ok, where should I start? Let's split this into a few sections righto? There will be Graphics, 
 Sound, Game play, Story.
  
  Graphics
  ~~~~~~~~
  Ok so the Graphics are schweeeet. =) It's still the classic Paper Mario style so don't fret. The 
 characters are fresh and crisp. Pixels look quite nice and the Towns and Areas you visit are visually 
 nice in that Mario sort of way. Camera angles are all good... except sometimes. Whilst flipping 
 sometimes you can sometimes be looking at the inside of a cliff face... nice.
  
  Sound
  ~~~~~
  The music is nice and is suitably placed. There is plenty of soundtracks so don't think 
 you'll need to be turning the TV to mute like with Harvest Moon =P. Sound effects are just positively 
 oozing with that stuff that makes your ears feel nice. Some people complain that there is no audio 
 dialogue but I don't see that as a problem. None of the other Paper Mario games have had audio 
 dialogue and I don't believe in any games has Mario actually talked (apart from phrases like, "Its-a 
 me, Mario!) . Anyway the other characters have funny lines like when Bowser first encounters Dimentio.
 
  
  Game play
  ~~~~~~~~
  Yahoo! It's a totally radical design with ultra-cool flipping stuff! Yeah! Woo! Woo... yay... Ok 
 so this new flipping to 3D LOOKED great on paper, but in the game it just doesn't stack up. Sorry. 
 Flipping is just like a chore, you have to do it nearly everywhere to get all the items. Also, 
 most puzzles require you to just flip and presto your through. Even when you don't have to just 
 flip, it'll be something like flipping then placing a bomb and flipping again. It get's quite repetitive. 
 Why can't games have puzzles like Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of time? Eh? Anyways onto the next failure 
 in the game play department.
  Ok so the designers of this game say it's an RPG Platformer. I say it's a platformer with just 
 a sprinkle of RPG. Let's see... first of all there are no Badges, Flower Points or Turn-Based Combat 
 Scenes. "WHAT!?" you cry. Aye, they be gone. GONE. Oh well you may say, at least they kept the 
 useful and characterful partners.... right? I'm sad to be the one to tell you, but partners have 
 been replaced by Pixels. They talk to you when you first get them, but suddenly become mute.... hmmm. 
 Righto, what about their special abilities? Ok well there IS an extensive amount of special abilities 
 which would be good if you used them more then 6 times in the whole game. (I'm looking at you, 
 Thoreau) 
  Moving on to items. Ok so I just love the way you used some of the items, though they could have 
 been used more. Anyway, so there seems to be 3 items of everything that do exactly the same thing. 
 The only difference is in cooking. Which brings me to my next thing, cooking.
  Ah cooking, my sister who is more of a casual gamer absolutely loved this in TTYD. She refused 
 to look at a guide to get all the recipes. Ok so I suppose cooking hasn't changed that much this 
 time but I don't see any improvements.
  Another major problem with this game is that you'll be doing ALOT of backtracking so be prepared. 
 What'll happen in most levels is you'll have to go all the way to the end of the level, get a key 
 or something and go all the way back to the start to open some door. Boooooring. At least in TTYD 
 there was something to distract you (uber cool story line) .
  
  Story
  ~~~~~
  Ok... a love story. In a mario game. Love. Mario. Hmm. Alright Nintendo have fun your fun. I suppose 
 the story is OK. But it's not as good as the other ones. It did, however, make me play the game 
 to the end just to find out what happened. So it does suck you in. Ok I'm getting quite bored of 
 typing now so I'll end it now.
  
  
  In conclusion, Super Paper Mario is a great game if you love platformers, but if you liked the 
 old Paper Mario games or enjoy RPG's I'd suggest renting it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shyguy1234
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Wow, where to start. Well, the one thing I have to say is this game is AMAZING. Well to start, I will 
 explain everything.
  Graphics:10/10. Some of the most incredible I have seen on any wii game.
  Gameplay:9/10. I love 
 most of the gameplay, but the one thing that I didn't like was continously flipping in and out of 
 3-D and 2-D.
  Music:8/10. The music sounds the same, but the final boss music I ADORE.
  Story:10/10. OH MY GOSH. The story is incredible! I said the same thing about TTYD, but this games 
 storyline breaks everything.
  Difficulty:8/10. I know I already listed this, but the difficulty isn't exactly how I stated it. The 
 fights can sometimes knock your health down to 5. So don't get TOO comfortable.
  Enemy/Boss fights:9/10. Well, one of the most amazing parts of this game is the battles. I loved the 
 final boss fight so much, I actually turned my game off, and copied it so I could do it over again.
 
  Well, that is all I have to say about Super Paper Mario. I have one last thing to say. If you have 
 a Wii, you must get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dtno132
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is one of the Wii games I really enjoyed, I really was impressed by the unique 
 gameplay and smart puzzles.
  
  This time, Mario has to save the world from count Bleck, forcing princess Peach to marry Bowser.
 
  
  To save the worlds you must collect pure hearts, and set them into heart pillars.
  
  What is really good about this game is the gameplay, you play as Mario, Peach, Bowser, and Luigi, 
 every single one has a special ability and some weak points.
  
  For example: Mario has the ability to flip from 2-D into 3-D, which allows the game to have one 
 of the smartest puzzles out there.
  
  The only thing I didn't like is the cutscenes, there are too many, although I didn't mind them, 
 many of my friends got bored because of them.
  
  Super Paper Mario is a great game for the Wii, it is unique, and you will never play anything like 
 it, this is one of the best Wii games ever made.
  
  BUY IT! 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blockie123
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Two of my favorite games of all time are Paper Mario and Paper Mario and the TYD, which is the 
 sequel. I gave these games 9.5's. This was an incredible disappointment. This is not an RPG but 
 a dull platformer. It is now in entire 2-D, no more 3-D. (Yes the other games were in 3-D, you 
 can walk up and down.) Instead you have this flipping crud. You can flip to 3-D to solve non-exsistant 
 puzzles. Wow... interesting. Instead of a creative battle system, you get... well jumping on enemies. 
 It's not bad but mind numbingly easy. Instead of having partners, you get Pixls. They are little 
 things that have a stupid ability you use twice. 
  
  Graphics: 9/10 (Best part of the game)
  Music: 7/10 (Too soft and very boring)
  Gameplay: 5/10 
 (No more battles)
  Variety: 6/10 (Every level seems the same!)
  Replay value: Couldn't tell you... never finished the piece of trash! 
  I know I am being hard 
 on the game but this is because of the high expectations I had for this game.
  -Blockiereviews 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElPadrinoAoX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is an awesome game. My girlfriend couldn't believe that is was dating a gamer. 
 Well I just bought a Wii. Of course "Mario" was the first man I looked to too show me a good time. 
 Well lets just say me and her now sit and play this game for hours a day. Level 4-2 (I think) was 
 really crazy. I really couldn't believe they put such a level in a game, you really can't tell 
 if your coming or going. Super Paper Mario is just one of those games you can play over and over. 
 One of the best Mario's in the series. If your looking for a game to just sit and play for hours 
 and enjoy every min. of it, this is the game. With all the cool new features in the game, along 
 with all the extra stuff you can get. Playing it through a few times can really keep you interested. 
 Plus, playing with Mario, Princess, and Bowser is really cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kunlun
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 11, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  August 27, 2008  The Paper Mario series from Nintendo have always been role playing genre games. 
 Super Paper Mario breaks that habit and mixes in a heavy dose of platforming along with traditional 
 role playing elements. Anyone that is looking to play a role playing game will not find this to 
 be that game at all. Despite some role playing elements, Super Paper Mario is pretty much really 
 a platformer. However, that's not to say that it's not a good game, in fact it's really fun to 
 play and rather unique in a way because it's different from other games in the genre.
  
  The story of the game like other Mario games is very cartoonish and there's not much depth to it. 
 Like other Mario games, that does not matter because the gameplay is where this game shines. An 
 evil and mysterious Count Bleck has kidnapped Princess Peach and Bowser while sending Mario and 
 Luigi away to another dimension to separate them. Count Bleck has forced Princess Peach and Bowser 
 to get married and created the Chaos Heart which will destroy the universe. As Mario, the player 
 must find his friends (yes, Bowser is a friend too) and save the universe from complete destruction. 
 Helping you from the beginning will be a wizard, Merlon, who tells you what to do, and Tippi, a 
 pixl that will journey with Mario throughout the game. Pixls are fairy like creatures that have 
 different abilities that can help Mario and his friends through the game. For example, Tippi can 
 detect hidden objects by holding the Wii Remote like a flashlight towards the TV screen and scanning 
 the area. Mario earns the ability to switch to 3D mode early in the game and that will be a useful 
 talent throughout the remainder of the game, new members that join the party will always bring 
 a useful ability with them.
  
  Super Paper Mario plays like a platformer. Jumping on top of an enemy is usually the best way to 
 take it out, but some enemies require the player to get creative and use some of the character 
 or pixl abilities to defeat them. 2D side scrolling is similar to how other Mario games work, except 
 players deal damage points like an RPG and receive score points when beating an enemy or eating 
 mushrooms. As the total score increases, the level of the character will increase. The higher the 
 level of the player, the more points it will require to level up again. Leveling up will increase 
 character damage and health points. There is an inventory system that allows stuff like healing 
 and defensive/offensive items to be carried around, but only up to a certain amount. Special items 
 like a "return to home" pipe do not take inventory space and instead are stored in another section. 
 Mario and his buddies can interact with all the other characters they meet in the game, but rarely 
 do random characters do anything interesting.
  
  Playing through the game is quite fun, but like an RPG it can really stump a player for a while. 
 Knowing the uses of all the characters and pixls is very important in passing through the game 
 without getting stuck for long. The first half of the game is quite easy, but as later stages are 
 unlocked the difficulty definitely rises. Mainly, it's the puzzle solving parts that could pose 
 problems and may require some backtracking. The platforming is actually pretty easy, bosses don't 
 take long to figure out can usually be taken out on the first try.
  
  If players are looking to take a break from the main game, around halfway through the game, an 
 arcade and challenge rooms will be available to play. The arcade games are basic mini games that 
 are mildly entertaining, but could get boring fast. The challenge rooms are called tedious and 
 will take awhile to get through as 100 rooms need to be completed in one sitting to be able to 
 beat it. These are just slight distractions to offer something besides the main game, but will 
 not keep players occupied for long.
  
  The graphics are very clean and are very well done, especially in 2D. The graphics for 3D mode 
 could be a little more polished. Sound effects are simple and go well with the game. There are 
 some remixed classic Mario tracks in the game, and some new ones as well. One thing about the game 
 that many people may not like is that there is a lot of reading to be done. There is no voice acting 
 and everything is told through speech bubbles and text boxes. The game is actually very well written 
 and humorous, so it won't make reading that tedious. The story is a bit predictable, so there aren't 
 any moments that will keep players really looking forward to what will happen next.
  
  All in all, Super Paper Mario is a very well made game. The story is decent, but predictable, it's 
 very wordy, but well written. All the favorite Mario characters are there, as well as some new 
 ones. The game looks and plays nice, but there is a lot of reading to be done. It's certainly fun 
 to play and it will take some time to complete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanim02
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  When people first saw Mario RPG on the SNES back in the mid-90s, people were stoked when they saw 
 Square-oft and Nintendo pull something off so unique. That's where Ppaer Mario was born. Sure the 
 N64 classic was an awesome game but the main gameplay idea was from Mario RPG. Now Paper Mario 
 is a very successful franchise by Nintendo and had many off-spring like series, like Mario & Luigi 
 Superstars etc. Anyways, so does Super Paper Mario live up to the undisputed expectations? Hmm.. 
 
  
  Story: The story in SPM is basically a hidden love story to tell everyone the truth. Half way through 
 the game, you will automatically understand the whole story.. So older players will undoubtedly 
 figure it all out, so basically it is aimed at a younger audience. This new villan called Count 
 Bleck tries to destroy all worlds by making Bowser and Peach get married and it's up to Mario and 
 his friends to save the day! It's a decent atempt to make the story and characters deep for older 
 audiences something that was well hidden in Shrek but the deepness they try to reach is just predictable 
 from the first glance.
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  Pros: Platforming + RPG elements blend in well, Different characters gives the game a touch of 
 variety, Cool Pixls abilities, Motion sensing moments are fun.
  
  Cons: Does not feel like much of an RPG, Most puzzles can wear you out, The difficult is on the 
 easy side, Camera angle in 3D is awkward.
  
  Score: 8/10
  
  The last two Paper Mario games have all been about turn based battles with a few twists, but SPM 
 is completely different than the last two. It's basically a 2D platforming game through and through. 
 There are some nice RPG twists in the game but the game just feels like a Platformer. You will 
 hardly use items to strike your ennemies since just jumping on them does the job. If you give the 
 Wii mote a little shake after the hit, you gain more points for style. Some items require you to 
 use the motion sensing feature, and they don't feel tacked on at all. You only use the Wii mote 
 to play the game, holding it side ways like a classic NES controler. You can switch in-between 
 characters during the game but you always end up using Mario because he can switch in-between dimensions 
 and that's what's the game all about. If you press the A button with Mario you can go from 2D to 
 3D. It's a nifty feature but the camera angle is just awkward. Some puzzles require you to use 
 the dimension swap feature which means you will be using Mario a lot. You also have things called 
 Pixls. I will not ruin them for you but all of Mario and friends abilities are tied down to them. 
 Most of the puzzles are just annoying and constantly switching between characters and Pixls can 
 be a drag but the gameplay is still fun and engaging.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Pros: Colorful details, Sticks to the Paper theme very well, No frame-rate for texture issues at 
 all.
  
  Cons: Some of the levels can start to look very bland after your in them for a while.
  
  Score: 
 9/10
  
  The Paper Mario series built it's name on the Paper theme and SPM sticks perfectly with it. The 
 game may not look anything amazing like Gears or MSG4 but the cartoonish look is very cute and 
 colorful and nice to look at. There aren't a single frame-rate or texture issues at all but that's 
 mainly because the game stays very simple when it comes to visuals. With games like SPM, the Wii 
 doesn't need ground breaking visuals at all.
  
  Sound:
  
  Pros: Some of the tunes are great.
  
  Cons: No voice work at all, No memorable tunes.
  
 
  Score: 5/10
  
  The biggest thing I personally have hated since the first Paper Mario was the fact that the game 
 had loads and loads of texts and SPM continues with that tradition. Nowadays most RPGs use voice 
 actors to make us suffer less from all the reading and reading. Sure, it may seem lazy but do you 
 really feel like sitting in front of a tv one afternoon and play a game where you have to read 
 and read? Zelda has texts but not to this extent. The game relies a lot on texts in order for you 
 to advance, so if you don't pay attention to what your reading, tough luck buddy. Aside from now 
 rant, some of the tunes are great and it's nice to hear old school Mario mixes blend in with some 
 new tunes, although none of them are very memorable.
  
  Value: In the end, SPM comes down to a decent package. It offers a good amount of side-scrolling 
 platforming experience with a great paper theme and a lot of reading..=/ lol. If you wanted something 
 similar to the original this game is not for you. The story, 2D --  3D elements, annoying puzzles 
 and reading may be some of the lower points of SPM, but this is a great game which deserves at 
 least a rent by anyone who wants to try something other than annoying mini-games or tacked on motion 
 controled games. SPM is truly something unique on the Wii.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: samgamereviews
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 24, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  I was really excited for Super Paper Mario. I have been a fan of the series since the beginning 
 and the thousand year door is still one of my favorite games. While there are some new and cool 
 additions, Super Paper Mario takes away too many of the features that I look for in a Paper Mario 
 Game.
  Gameplay: This was where I was really dissapointed in. While the controls work fine, Nintendo ditched 
 my favorite part of the series. The role playing part of the game has been replaced with platforming 
 which I thought was a bad decision. Mario (And eventually other characters) jumps around on enemies 
 with the help of pixls. The pixls aren't used in many puzzles so they won't be needed very much. 
 Enemys and especially bosses are extremely easy to beat, and while flipping is fun, it becomes 
 a drag changing characters and flipping at every screen to look for hidden items and not flippiing 
 for too long. Most of the RPG elements that made Paper Mario a great game is gone. This ruined 
 most of the game for me.
  Story: This is where the game is good for the most parts. The idea of a love story doesn't really 
 suit my needs, but there are enough twists to make the text enjoyable to read. However, the pixls 
 needed more of a storyy around them. 
  Controls: The controls are simple with very few buttons but they work well so I am not complaining.
 
  Graphics: The paper qualities make it look very interesting and the backrounds for each area is 
 unique and different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Chef08
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is a game that resembles the mixing of Peanut Butter and Chocolate. It takes 
 two great things and mixes them together numerous times. But it comes together to make a great 
 original experience for the Wii.
  
  Super Paper Mario is a game where you obviously play as Mario. SPM has a story you may like or 
 hate. Instead of revolving around Bowser capturing Peach, the story is about a guy named Count 
 Bleck who is using this artifact called the Chaos Heart to destroy all worlds and dimensions. As 
 you can imagine, Mario comes to save the day. He joins this Pixl (fairy like Butterfly) named Tippi, 
 who is like his guide. Along with Tippi Mario is joined by a team of Pixls and three friends. The 
 story is filled with more plot twists (some are quite predictable though) than most Mario games 
 and this game focuses a little more on story. Another part that stands out in the story is some 
 of the hilarious dialogue and funny characters.
  
  The gameplay is also a huge part of the game that has its many ups and downs. On the plus side, 
 I have never seen anything like it. One major part of the game is flipping from 2-D to 3-D. This 
 is a lot of fun to look at the environmnts while switching between and you can get out of alot 
 of sticky situations this way. But to make sure its not too cheap, you can only stay in 3-D for 
 a limited time before it starts to zap away your life. This doesn't affect the game much though 
 and isn't that noticeable. The game is also a blending of Platformign and RPG. Unlike paper Mario 
 1 and 2, this revolves more around Platforming than RPGs, so its like platforming with RPG elements. 
 Its fun and quicker paced, so you don't have to deal with turn based battles. Its fun and even 
 though it can be stale at times its a nice blend. SPM gameplay does have its downside though. The 
 game is quite easy and only has a few challenges (none of which are boss fights) especially if you 
 are an avid Mario fan. You will also spend a good amount fo the game in menus. This is so you can 
 switch characters and Pixls. That gets tedious and breaks up the action. Another thing is there 
 are Pixls you will use alot and others you will barely use, almost like you just cut some of them 
 out of the game entirely. Among the characters, you will use Mario around 75% of the time. The 
 other characters can't flip to 3-D and have major downsides, whereas Mario doesn't. You may just 
 switch to that character to get past a roadblock or solve a puzzle.
  
  One place Super Paper Mario does really good in in is the graphics. It's not technically amazing 
 but its eye candy. The backrounds are actually all simple shapes but the way Nintendo puts them 
 together makes some beautiful environments. The thing is, the 2-d enviroments are beautiful but 
 the 3-D environments are kind of bland, but I guess it's supposed to be that way.
  
  The sound in SPM is nothing to cheer about. The music fits the game and the mood but sometimes 
 its pretty annoying. The sound effects aren't all that special either, they're Mario sound effects.
 
  
  Overall Super Paper Mario is a game that you may love or hate. It's a blend of many different things (2-D 
 and 3-D, RPG and Platformer, new and old) . I recomend this game to people who are fans of Mario/Paper 
 Mario, or just Wii owners looking for something different, the essence of the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostofluigi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game and when I had to give it back, I was sorry I didn't buy it. Super Paper Mario 
 was a great game. The humour they put into it neatly fitted into the story like a puzzle piece. 
 The platforming gameplay was amazing because it was like an old 1989 mario game. I don't have anything 
 against turn-based but I'm a platforming person. Storyline was good with the, like I said before, 
 funny. The way the chracters acted was enough to make me hold my stomach laughing.
  
  
  I had a few problems with the game. They were
  
  .the camera angles when you switched from 
 2-d to 3-d. I didn't like that because I sometimes had to put my head sideways to see something 
 and that made my neck hurt.
  
  .the 10 minute intro at the beginning of the game
  
  .When I died on some parts, I had to do the same long thing over again which was annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PurpuhlRowboht
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  If you've played any of the other previous games in the Paper Mario series you'll find that this 
 is very different in a sense that it's more like the first Mario games but with a twist.
  The usual turn based combat in previous Paper Mario games doesn't apply here and instead uses a 
 mix of 2D and 3D. Mario now has the ability to flip into the 3rd dimension and avoid obstacles 
 that in the 2D world would be otherwise unavoidable.
  Armed with a variety of different usable fairy-like creatures called Pixls you can perform attacks 
 and other abilities to aid Mario on his quest.
  This time 3 other unlikely heroes join Mario on his journey to defeat the evil Count Bleck. Each 
 have their own special ability although Mario is the only one that is able to switch between dimensions.
 
  With plenty of unlockables and a few sidequests you won't be bored playing this game. With 8 levels 
 of action packed fun you won't want to put it down. Also it rarely utilizes the motion controls 
 on the Wii so you don't have to flail your arms around like an idiot.
  With fun and simple gameplay and an interesting as well as heartwarming story, Super Paper Mario 
 is one game for the Wii that you definitely don't want to miss out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Broncos_Allstar
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 8, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  I was a big fan of the paper mario franchise after playing paper mario and the thousand year door 
 for the nintendo gamecube. I loved the turn-taking fighting system and that you could give yourself 
 a headstart on the competition. So when i rented super paper mario i was very dissipointed first 
 of all the action type fighting system instead of the turnbased one. The next reason is the storyline 
 was more boring than any other game ive played!!! There is many points in the game where you feel 
 like a toddler because {minor spoiler} the character is always changing shapes to look different 
 but you can tell by the the dialogue that she is not the real person she looks like. and half way 
 through the story you know how the story will end. Speaking of half way through the game, I was 
 a big fan of the cooking system in the last pm but you dont get to cook 2 items until half way 
 through the game, and the 100 man pit from last game that was a lot of fun it was you guessed it 
 not until halfway through the game. The visuals make you want to puke rainbows not to mention nothing 
 changed from last game. Only hardcore fans would probably find the game interesting. One thing 
 I did like about the game was the sound and sound effects which were descent and the humor which 
 got a chuckle out of me here and there. In the end there is tons of stuff to do after you beat 
 the game and there is over 10 hrs of gameplay in the campain so after everything takien into consideration 
 my score is a 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tom95b
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  Maybe you should think: Why a 2-D game on a next-gen console
  Thats what i though too, but now i know better
  
  There is so much gameplay in this game that 
 it totally overwhelmed me.
  First you have the 3-D switch, it isnt so really great but it is just fun,
  and like much Pixels, 
 with Pixels you can do special moves, and much more. You can see its a GC port but i dindt care 
 about it cause the gameplay still totally rocks.
  
  Then the graphics.
  For a 2-D game the graphicsare the best what you can get. When flippen too 3-D its not really good, 
 but you cant sped much time in 3-D so it isnt really a problem. In the beginnin levels everything 
 is beatiful. But later on it is sometimes really boring. There is a level with only a black line 
 and white background. It wasnt a long lvl, but still it was really boring. But the most levels 
 where just cool. 
  
  
  Duration
  It is a long story and specially when you want all Pixels and other items.
  Its never get boring, 
 only on that black line level, and i have played it like 3 times over. The games is a little too 
 easy, specially the boss fights
  
  Sound
  Its just all classic Mario sounds and some new adds, but all the sounds are just good.
  
  Conclusion
 
  The game is really cool, when you want to buy a adventure game and you already bought Super Mario 
 Galaxy, then this is the best game you can get
  
  
  The Good
  Great gameplay, nice graphics and a long, story
  
  
  The Bad
  The game is a little easy, 
 and later on the levels get boring
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pride1289
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  I seriously can't find anything wrong with it. I love the characters, I love the story, and I love 
 the art of the entire game. I regretibly (I am pretty sure that's spelt wrong) did not ever finish 
 playing the Paper Mario for gamecube. I wanted to go back and finish it, but they don't have it 
 at hollywood video anymore. It's probably to old for them now.
  The only thing stopping it from getting a 10 out of me is that I got stuck a lot. I could not figure 
 out a few things for the life of me. I did in the end. But unfortunatly by the time I had finished 
 the game, I had already watched the ending on youtube. But it was good that I watched it all on 
 youtube because that's what made me want to finish the game also.
  I couldn't go around sites and say I love the Count when i hadn't even finished the game! That 
 would have been rude.
  I liked how the character that came with you-Peahc, Luigi, and Bowser- actually served a purposed 
 and helped you threw the game. That's a first for any game I played. The one thing I didn't like 
 about the game was... wait... nope. I can't think of anything I don't like about it. I'm sorry if 
 I seem like a really obsessive fan right now. I don't think I am, but i'm saying sorry just in 
 case, but I just don't see anything wrong with the game. It had a love story and an adventure. 
 And even a triangle love story. I think that's what it's called. I'm probably wrong though. I usually 
 am. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sAQPat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  gh gf gf gf gd gh ghd ghgh gh gh gf gh ggf gf gf gf gf g gf gh gh g g gf gf gf gf gf gh gf gf gf 
 gd gh ghd ghgh gh gh gf gh ggf gf gf gf gf g gf gh gh g g gf gf gf gf gf gh gf gf gf gd gh ghd 
 ghgh gh gh gf gh ggf gf gf gf gf g gf gh gh g g gf gf gf gf gf gh gf gf gf gd gh ghd ghgh gh gh 
 gf gh ggf gf gf gf gf g gf gh gh g g gf gf gf gf gf gh gf gf gf gd gh ghd ghgh gh gh gf gh ggf 
 gf gf gf gf g gf gh gh g g gf gf gf gf gf gh gf gf gf gd gh ghd ghgh gh gh gf gh ggf gf gf gf gf 
 g gf gh gh g g gf gf gf gf gf gh gf gf gf gd gh ghd ghgh gh gh gf gh ggf gf gf gf gf g gf gh gh 
 g g gf gf gf gf gf gh gf gf gf gd gh ghd ghgh gh gh gf gh ggf gf gf gf gf g gf gh gh g g gf gf 
 gf gf gf gh gf gf gf gd gh ghd ghgh gh gh gf gh ggf gf gf gf gf g gf gh gh g g gf gf gf gf gf gh 
 gf gf gf gd gh ghd ghgh gh gh gf gh ggf gf gf gf gf g gf gh gh g g gf gf gf gf gf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fudawg45
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 4, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  As soon as you turn on this game, you'll be instantly intrigued by its art style and quirky sense 
 of humor. As soon as you actually start to play, you'll quickly get a nostalgic feeling deep down 
 as you embrace the platform jumping goodness. Unfortunately this feeling doesn't last forever due 
 to poor level design and an overall weak story.
  
  The star of the show this time around is the ability to flip from 2D to 3D by tapping the A button. 
 This enables all sorts of clever new ideas for level design, and the first few chapters really 
 show this off well. As an example, you may come to a seemingly impassable cliff, but upon flipping 
 to 3D you'll see that there's a large hole allowing you to walk right through. Items, enemies, 
 and pipes lie hidden behind hills and rocks and can only be found in 3D.
  
  This game is essentially a platform jumper with RPG elements, and NOT the other way around. Do 
 you know why those old Mario games are superb? They were fairly short, the levels were creative, 
 and the situations you were put in never felt repetitive all the way through the game. Super Paper 
 Mario is basically another of these platform games, but stretched to around 12 - 15 hours. 15 hours 
 of similar platform jumping, enemy stomping, and flipping tricks gets tiring. Which brings me to 
 level design. As I said, the first chapters are all very creative. You'll do different things and 
 explore new areas. As you get deeper in though you'll come across more and more puzzles. It chops 
 up the fluid platforming which is so inherently fun. As an example, in one of the desert levels 
 you'll come across three plain blocks at a dead end. To pass, you'll have to get the secret pass 
 code, which is not at all obvious to find, and then input it on the blocks. It's frustrating, pointless, 
 and serves no purpose other than to slow down gameplay.
  
  Another later level entails running to the right for about a minute and a half. That's it. No enemies. 
 No stage hazards. Nothing. Just run for a minute, and then you finish. Fun?
  
  To try to spice things up, you get four characters total. Really though, you'll use Mario the whole 
 time since he's the most agile of them all. Bowser is incredibly bulky and slow; Peach is better 
 and can float, but isn't all that satisfying to run around with; and Luigi doesn't control tight 
 enough for tougher spots. Even using Mario, you'll notice that the controls aren't as tight as 
 they should be. I fell in many pits when Mario refused to jump. I also got hit a lot trying to 
 move in close to hit enemies with my hammer. It's almost like you have to wait for some animations 
 to finish before another can begin.
  
  The story in this game is fairly weak as well. The characters are entertaining, but I never felt 
 connected to the world or the characters. When disastrous events occurred, my reaction wasn't "Oh 
 my gosh," it was "*sigh* ok, what's next?" The final chapter pulls out some classic RPG story tricks, 
 and they're very shallow and fairly ineffective.
  
  So that's a lot of bad so far. Why should you play this game? Because the first half really is 
 an awesome experience. The art style of the characters and enemies is charming, and the dialogue 
 is mostly entertaining. Also, exploring the town of Flipside (and the other town you discover along 
 the way) is fairly rewarding as well. There are a few extra things to do if you're really devoted 
 (or just really REALLY bored) like collecting cards and recipes. There are also two extra dungeons 
 to run through, but the reward for doing so isn't worth it. Even if the puzzles are frustrating 
 and boring, the platforming is classic goodness with a 3D twist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tireyo643
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario for Wii is a very creative game that definitely lives up to its standards. Being 
 able to switch between 2D and 3D environments really makes the game stand out well compared to 
 the other games on the market. The story in the game is a little quirky and long, but it is well 
 written and surprisingly interesting. Nintendo has taken a successful cinematic approach in making 
 games and Super Paper Mario passes the test. Each level is expertly designed to provide many hours 
 of entertainment. Some parts in Super Paper Mario can get annoying and hard but once you work around 
 the obstacles, you will go to a better place. Super Paper Mario gets a superb rating of 9 because 
 it changes the standards of how we look at games and the potential of inspiring future games. This 
 is a game that should not be ignored and it leaves Mario fans amazed, proud, and wanting more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  The good: Great Graphical achievement, Music is catchy in many levels, Great game-play, dark atmosphere 
 in later levels sets a great mood, Mario and Luigi are finally playable in the same console game 
 for the first time, 13 playable characters
  
  The bad: You could beat most of the bosses on your first or second try, lacks a lot of dialogue 
 compared to the previous installments.
  
  Game-play: 9/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Value: 10/10
  Tilt: 10/10
  Average Score: 9.6/10
  
  If you are looking for 
 a great platforming experience, you can find Super Paper Mario a blast. In this game, Count Bleck, 
 a mysterious man, has created a black hole that will destroy all worlds. It's up to Mario, Luigi, 
 Peach, and Bowser to stop it.
  
  When you play as Mario, you have the power to flip 2D and 3D. You can see a whole lot of more secrets 
 never seen before. This is revolutionary and incredible to the series. Peach has the power to float 
 between ledges other characters can't reach. Bowser can flamethrow lots of hazards. Luigi can jump 
 really high.
  
  The game is incredibly fun. There are tons of puzzles and challenging levels, such as the Woah 
 Zone. However, most of the bosses are incredibly easy due to the lack of RPG combat in the previous 
 games. This gets really pointless when the fighting styles are simplistic and childish. The lack 
 of secondary dialogue in the game also ruins he reputatuion.
  
  Graphically, the game is sweet. The Levels in 3D are amazing. The music is amazing in levels like 
 the Underwhere, Cragnon Caverns, and Flipside.
  
  Although minor flaws haunt this game, Super Paper Mario is a classic game from top to bottom, and 
 anyone with a Wii should buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  In the game you are Mario and Bowser took Peach until this new enimie name Count Bleck takes her 
 and you are warped into this world named Flipside. You also got a partner that is a pixel named 
 Tippit. You got this heart and you have to put it at this place then a door will appear and you 
 can go in and your adventure will stop. Later in the game you get more partners like more pixels 
 and Lugiu, Bowser, and Peach become your partners later in the game. The major enimie is this small 
 Dimentio guy and he can trandform into some stuff. The good of this game is that switching from 
 2-D to 3-D is genouis. The bad the game is a little short. This game is worth getting but it will 
 only last you a little while not that long. Also the ending is very good. But if they did make 
 another one they should work on the lasting of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fernandomarques
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  Over the last couple of years, there has been a growing trend for games to mix-and-match game genres. 
 Time was, you would get a FPS and it would involve a collection of guns, a mountain of ammo, and 
 a linear run to the finish. Now, just about every FPS has elements of the RPG: take Medal of Honor: 
 Airborne and it's weapon upgrading or games like Battlefield where your experience in the field 
 unlocks new tactical options. Super Paper Mario for the Wii takes the same evolutionary principle 
 and applies it all over the platform game, with interesting results.
  
  OK, so it's not the first time this has happened: the mixing of Mario's traditional platform-hopping 
 and RPG elements began in 2001 (in the US and Europe) with Paper Mario for the N64, though this, 
 in itself was a sort-of sequel to Super Mario RPG for the SNES. The developer, Intelligent Systems 
 has produced each of the Paper Mario games, and each has been subtly different in gameplay mechanic, 
 with past iterations using a more RPG-like, turn-based battle system. Super Paper Mario, on the 
 other hand, is more of a platform game at heart; albeit one with an important twist.
  
  The twist is literally that! For almost all of the game, at the press of a button, you can rotate 
 your view of the traditional 2D flat world, and see into the third dimension. This is an absolute 
 genius touch, which means that Mario (and pals) can suddenly hunt behind blocks for coins, slip 
 behind enemies (almost all of them are 2D, so 'flipping' the view into 3D means that only the edge 
 of the 2D 'sprite' is visible) and discover whole new pathways stretching off into the z-axis! 
 There are some fantastic visual tricks such as holes in the backdrop that are barely visible in 
 2D, but readily apparent in 3D, tubes in the foreground that lead to tubes in the backdrop, and 
 seemingly impossible jumps up platforms that are easy in the 3D world. In fact, it's so useful 
 that you would probably spend your whole time in 3D if it wasn't for a timer ticking down on each 
 'flip' which removes health when it runs out. Again, this works excellently, forcing you constantly 
 think about what dimension you need to be in, where your objective might be, and how to get out 
 of trouble. RPG elements play on the 3D nature of the world, by having a central 'hub' town (actually 
 two towns, but in mirror image) with characters to talk to, shops, an inn and secret bits to discover. 
 In a similar way to the Legend of Zelda games, parts of the town will be inaccessible until you 
 have the right tools to get through. These come in the form of Pixls  little 'sprites' that you 
 discover as you make your way through the game that provide skills that are often vital for progression. 
 Tippi, the first Pixl you meet allows you to use the Wiimote as a kind of torch, highlighting dark 
 areas, hidden blocks and doors and describing objects. Other Pixls allow you to plant bombs, hit 
 things with a hammer, and float across spikes. Standard RPG conventions such as hit-points and 
 an inventory with items to collect are all present and correct (even if your inventory is restrictively 
 small) . You even have the choice of using Luigi, Peach and Bowser as your character throughout 
 various parts of the game which adds variety in your approach to problems, as they each have a 
 different skill.
  
  At it's heart though, Super Paper Mario is a platform game. There are eight different worlds for 
 you to explore, each with 4 chapters. Each world has a different theme and feel to it. There's 
 grassy plains, trips through clouds, prehistoric caves and even the depths of space. Some of the 
 chapters work brilliantly and bouncing across platforms feels as good as ever, with your character's 
 movement and inertia coded using that trademark Nintendo 'feel'. This is definitely enhanced by 
 the Pixls and flipping: many of the chapters are giant puzzles, requiring constant movement through 
 the third dimension and changing of your Pixl 'powers'. During the best chapters, you will find 
 yourself slipping into a happy rhythm of assessing the surroundings, jumping, flipping, selecting, 
 reassessing, jumping, etc. Perhaps not surprisingly, it's usually the more 'traditional' platform 
 levels that succeed the best at this. Where the game falls flat on it's multi-dimensional face 
 is when the developers have tried to mix things up a bit. One whole world sees you foraging through 
 space for one of the Pure Hearts (your primary goal is to collect 8 of these) . This plays out like 
 a kind of tedious side-scrolling shooter (think of a crappy Defender-like game) , with a few sparsely-placed 
 bad guys, featureless backgrounds that mean you have no landmarks so get lost, and a huge number 
 of identikit portals. The 3D flipping does nothing but highlight the odd power-up here and there, 
 and the endless traipsing through portals makes you disorientated and frustrated. Unfortunately, 
 the boredom and frustration of the space level is indicative of another, more deeply-rooted problem 
 with the game. Each chapter is made up of small individual sections (maybe 5-10 screens long) . 
 Some chapters make up for the shortness of each section by stringing scores of them together with 
 identical doors and then making you wander backwards and forwards through them to complete goals. 
 In contrast to the originality of the levels themselves, the goal for each section is usually a 
 key to open a door (wow! never heard of that in a game before!) , or to go and fetch something for 
 an NPC. In places it is obvious that the developers have placed the goal, and the item required 
 as far apart from each other as possible to make each section take longer to complete. For instance, 
 start at point A, make your way to point B 5 paces away where you speak to a kindly old man/samurai/rockman; 
 proceed throughout the entire level to the end until you reach a locked door at point C; find out 
 you have to see the man at B again, walk to B and back to C to open the door. I haven't seen level 
 design this lazy or sadistic for a while and is the major reason why this game won't find itself 
 on the pedestal alongside the likes of New Super Mario Bros or Super Mario World. Other notable 
 instances of poor design include having to type 'please' in five times to get an NPC to help you, 
 earning at least 10,000 coins by constantly pressing right on the d-pad for approximately 10 minutes 
 and memorising a 20-jump sequence of blocks which you can't make one mistake on.
  
  You get the sense that the developers were trying as hard as possible to be funny, and to create 
 humorous puzzles to solve and characters to interact with. Sometimes this works, especially if 
 you are a connoisseur of the Nintendo universe. There are lots of little spoken and visual references 
 to Ninty products, Mario and Luigi start the game by being bored because they haven't had to rescue 
 Princess Peach for ages and Bowser laments his lack of success at nabbing Peach. The level of wit 
 however, is aimed squarely at the level of fart gags and constant jokes about people with moustaches 
 and stupid names. As an adult be warned, the constant forced silliness and childish humour might 
 start to grate, but if you happen to be a 10-year old gamer, you will probably be rolling around 
 on the floor in hysterics! One 'elephant in the room' with Wii games is the implementation of the 
 motion-sensitive controller. You may be glad to hear that it has been handled very well, without 
 too many token Wiimote-waving techniques. Control is via the good old d-pad, with the Wiimote horizontal, 
 held in both hands. As mentioned previously, pointing it at the screen highlights objects, whilst 
 other movements are limited to a wobble after bouncing on a foe to enhance the point reward and 
 angling the wiimote in a certain way to activate power ups. The Wii's limited graphical grunt has 
 also been used to fair effect, with crisp graphics and the odd flashy visual trick masking the 
 simplicity of the 3D environments. The level art and NPC designs are all very imaginative and colourful 
 (although the colour scheme is occasionally eye-bitingly bad!) and there's some great 21st century 
 updates of NES visual and sound effects. In fact there's plenty to keep a Nintendo veteran gamer 
 happy, from the remake of a Super Mario Bros level to the 'Game and Watch-style' graphics on the 
 optional levels or the sound effects and musical updates. All in all, Super Paper Mario has the 
 trappings of a fantastic fusion of the genres. When it works, the platform jumping is great, the 
 3D twist imaginative and fun, and the RPG elements gel with the platformy side very well. There's 
 loads of extra stuff to see and do, from optional 100-level trials to card collecting, meaning 
 it's not short on longevity either. But, it is let down cruelly by some poor level design and a 
 very childish sense of humour. If you have a high boredom threshold, or don't mind coping with 
 the frustrating bits to get to the enjoyable heart, you'll love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 28, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario isn't going to revolutionize gaming, and it could have just as easily been a 
 Gamecube game as a Wii game (this game doesn't even use the Nunchuk) . However, it's a charming 
 and mostly well-designed platformer, and if you are looking for a great game to round out your 
 collection, it's an easy one to recommend.
  
  If you are a newcomer to the series, then a brief description is in order. Paper Mario is somewhat 
 of a throwback to the days of side-scrolling 2D adventures, but with a twist. Apparently taking 
 its inspiration from the science fiction book "Flatland", characters exist in a series of interconnected 
 flat dimensions, seemingly unaware that other dimensions are there and incapable of comprehending 
 their existence. As Mario, you can "flip" the world 90 degrees and travel between dimensions. It 
 is a great feature that enhances the game's wacky premise, and it is also a key game mechanic, 
 since it allows you to access new areas and find secrets. All of the characters are flat and paper-like. 
 It's a trait that allows for a relatively attractive game on what is an underpowered console.
 
  
  As platforming mechanics go, the gameplay in Super Paper Mario is nothing groundbreaking. You jump. 
 You land on stuff. You pick up power-ups and use them. You throw items at enemies or land on top 
 of them to kill them. Most of the gameplay is so simple that you could use an old NES controller. 
 In fact, most of the game is played by turning the controller sideways and using the D-Pad on the 
 Wii-mote for movement. Where Super Paper Mario excels is in its terrific level design and attention 
 to detail. The game is the ultimate refinement of an old-school platformer. Secrets abound everywhere, 
 which will inspire you to explore every last nook and cranny of every level. Each level has a lot 
 of content, a lot of power-ups to find, and a lot of characters to talk to.
  
  Art direction is probably Super Paper Mario's greatest asset. It is a beautifully wacky game, arguably 
 the best looking on the Wii. The surreal visuals use a wonderfully diverse color palette, which 
 is a nice change of pace from the seemingly endless string of brown and grey games that have come 
 out lately. Many enemies, especially the huge bosses, look spectacular. Some bosses take up almost 
 the entire screen, with body parts flailing or twirling. The game is the pinnacle of 2D graphics, 
 and it is far more pleasant to watch than the more demanding 3D games that expose the Wii's lack 
 of horsepower.
  
  Super Paper Mario excels, in some ways, because it is an homage and a throwback to the old days 
 of gaming. However, the game also suffers in a lot of ways, because it slavishly devotes itself 
 to all sorts of outdated game design conventions. One of these conventions is the use of unskippable 
 cutscenes. Some tougher boss battles take place right after a long cut scene, and if you get killed, 
 you have to restart your save game and watch the cut scene all over again. What makes them even 
 worse is that they have no voice acting, and the lines of dialog appear in world bubbles one at 
 a time. Speeding through these scenes is supremely annoying, as you sit there pounding the "A" 
 button to get through dozens of lines as fast as possible. This game also shares a flaw with about 
 half of Nintendo's other games, which is that it uses the same characters that have been in a thousand 
 other games. Perhaps there is a huge contingent of gamers for whom adding Mario and Bowser to a 
 game automatically makes a mundane story better. I am not one of them. Graphically, it's beautiful, 
 but audio-wise, it is unimpressive. The mundane sound effects, lack of voice acting, and forgettable 
 (and repetitive) music don't add much value to the game's otherwise excellent presentation.
  
  Super Paper Mario is a surprisingly long game. It consists of eight long chapters, each of 
 which takes place in a completely different setting. It clocks in at about 20-30 hours, with even 
 more possible depending upon how many secrets and goodies you wish to find. Adding to the game's 
 lasting value is the attention to detail in each level, the variety, and the absence of copy and 
 paste design. The number of enemies and challenges that you face in the game is astounding. Still, 
 the gameplay is simplistic enough that the game is about one or two chapters too long. It perhaps 
 overstays its welcome a bit, but given the abundance of 8-10 hour action games on the market, this 
 complaint is not a huge one.
  
  The art style and level design in Super Paper Mario truly carry this game. It is a great choice 
 on a console that is still struggling to produce compelling single player games on a regular basis. 
 It could have been better if it had ditched some of the 1980's-era game design conventions, but 
 it is a very enjoyable game, nonetheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PureSkillAndLuk
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 23, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Although the game designers were trying to do something new with the game and in most ways succeeded, 
 I'm not sure if this is necessarily better than the RPG styles of them. This is by no means a bad 
 game of course, and is rather excellent, but I think that the RPG genre fits the game better.
 
  
  Switching between characters can be annoying, especially since you will most likely be Mario most 
 of the time, your just will have to switch, to say, princess Peach for five seconds to get over 
 a gap, making the other characters kind of seem added on.
  
  The bosses are always the most fun part of a game, and that is pretty true in this too, the bosses 
 are fun.
  
  For people who really want a challenge, the greatest part of the game was The Pit of a Hundred 
 trials. Yeah you've heard that name before probably a thousand times, and this pit doesn't disappoint 
 as a great challenge, but not quite as hard as Thousand Year Door's.
  
  Once again, this is a good game, but as a message to the creators, please go back to your old ways 
 for the sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AoiSora603
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  If you are expecting something very similar to previous Paper Mario titles, then you might be in 
 for a surprise. While this game is still looks like Paper Mario, and still talks like Paper Mario, 
 it doesn't walk like Paper Mario. While some of the RPG elements return (such as leveling and town-wandering) , 
 the emphasis is placed on platforming. This game pages homage to its Mario roots by having you 
 jump from platform to platform and hop on the heads of enemies (but thankfully, without the one-hit 
 kills of old-school platformers) .
  
  The real charm of this game lies in the abilities made available to you. Arguably, the most useful 
 skill is that of Mario's: the ability to flip to 3-D. This allows you to pass obstacles otherwise 
 unpassable in 2-D, or to slip by groups of enemies, or to find hidden paths and pipes.
  
  While I appreciate that the story goes a little bit deeper than traditional platformers, I often 
 found myself thinking that the amount of dialogue in the game was out-of-place. That may turn off 
 the casual gamer who otherwise would have been taken in by the game.
  
  I also felt that there is a great deal of untapped potential in this game. You had four characters 
 available to you, each with their own unique ability (Bowser could breathe fire, Peach could float 
 across distances, and Luigi could Super Jump) , but ultimately, the gameplay was tilted heavily 
 toward Mario's ability to flip dimensions. It would have been nice to see the game balanced out 
 so that each character was equally valuable.
  
  Also available to you are a number of Pixls. These are creatures that each have a unique ability 
 to help you along. At any given point, you can only have 2 of them accompanying you at one time, 
 though you can switch out those 2 whenever you need to. One of those slots is filled by your permanent 
 companion, Tippi. Not only does she tie into the storyline, but she can give you information about 
 objects and enemies onscreen, as well as reveal hidden doors or stairways. The other slot can be 
 filled by any of your other Pixl companions, whose abilities range from picking up and tossing 
 objects and enemies to shrinking Mario (or whoever) to a tiny size.
  
  As far as controls go, it is evident that this game was originally a Gamecube came. You hold the 
 Wiimote sideways to play (which also adds to the old-school feel) , and motion controls are very 
 limited. You can point the Wiimote at the screen to use Tippi, and sometimes you can shake the 
 Wiimote to release yourself from ice or something, but otherwise, the game really doesn't utilize 
 the potential of the Wii.
  
  Despite my complaints, this is a fun game overall. It just could have benefitted from another month 
 or two in the oven. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReviewKing
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2008 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Paper Mario has been a great series ever since its first game for the N64, and I'm going to tell 
 you if its good or not so listen up. The story is where Count Bleck is going to put Mario's paper 
 world into a big blackhole, and that required Peach and Bowser to get married which is funny to 
 me. Mario meets up with this Pixel named Tippi and they quested with each other to find the Pure 
 Hearts, wait, what the heck is with collecting something of 8, first it was those stars that later 
 showed up on Mario Party 5, then it was Crystal Stars, but now its Pure Hearts. But I hate how 
 they got rid of the badges, thats one thing I liked about Paper Mario is the badges you collect 
 to help you in battle. The good things are that you collect Pixels now and you use the 4 main characters 
 from the Paper Mario games which are Mario, Peach, Bowser, and Luigi. Another cool feature is where 
 you can turn from 2-D to 3-D, no I'm serious about this, this was unexpected for a Paper Mario 
 game cause you know, paper. They also keep track of your Catch Cards, recipes, and all that other 
 crap; just make sure to find a online cook book for that game before you make anything. The graphics 
 are... Why am I even talking about graphics!? The sound effects are pretty normal and again, they 
 don't talk, just those chat bubbles like in a stupid comic book. This game is a good game for people 
 who like RPGs, Mario, and playing with paper (And no not Origami) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pangster007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  So it's been a while since Super Paper Mario has been released. It's been one of those games i've 
 been meaning to complete but have put off for some other games. For those who have followed the 
 game since being first revealed, you'd realise that SPM is somewhat the odd one out of the Paper 
 Mario series. While the first 2 games appeared on the N64, then GameCube, the games' mechanics 
 remained the same: a flat 2D Mario is controlled in a 3D world, enemy encounters happened when 
 your character actually touched an enemy on screen, battles were turn-based (like Final Fantasy) 
 but well-timed button presses could strengthen your attack or defence. Super Paper Mario on the 
 otherhand, seems to have shaken those elements out and added a different dimension and approach 
 to the series. Whether the change has been for the better, i'd say no - but please, read on.
  
  SPM starts out with Mario and Luigi setting off to see Princess Peach in her castle - she wasn't 
 there however. As the pair assume she may have been kidnapped by Bowser they go to his castle. 
 Initially an aggressive encounter, Mario, Luigi and Bowser realise that Peach is simply missing. 
 This is when a mysterious sorcerer who introduced himself as Count Bleck, reveals that he is the 
 true kidnapper of Princess Peach. Through the powers of the 'Dark Prognosticus', an ancient, prophetical 
 tome, Count Bleck creates a Chaos heart unleashing 'The Void'. This is a dimensional rift that 
 will grow and erase the universe from the seams. After the group (Mario, Luigi, Peach, Bowser) 
 are torn away from this location with powerful magic, you then control Mario who wakes up to find 
 Tippi, a 'Pixl', and a wizard, Merlon. You're informed that you may be the 'Hero' as described 
 by the 'Light Prognosticus'. The prophecy foretells that the hero will go about collecting the 
 'Pure Hearts' which will become the power to save the universe. So, accepting your role in the 
 prophecy, Mario and Tippi join forces to seek out all these hidden Pure Hearts - saving the universe, 
 and hopefully finding your friends along the way, Luigi, Peach and yes, Bowser (for once) .
  
  The game can be described as visually mind-blowing, albeit not in the technical sense: You 
 play the game in a beautifully-drawn 2D plane. Characters, objects, houses and even doors retain 
 that paper-thin effect and are all done in a cartoon-fashion. You also gain the power to literally 
 flip the world from it's side (or rather, yourself?) . This is when 3D comes into play, seeing the 
 world on its side feels incredible the first time it happens. The foreground is seen separate from 
 the background and the objects between those two layers are revealed from a different dimensional 
 state of mind! The game often plays tricks by hiding items, switches or tunnels behind 'decorations' 
 and so encourages you to often flip every screen you ever visit in the game - SPM is one of those 
 games in which the visuals actually have a very tangible effect on gameplay. You can also use this 
 power as a tool for navigation; flat enemies will become harmless to you when in a different dimension, 
 you can walk in and out of 'screen', revealing hidden pathways and sections of the world etc. The 
 power is, unfortunately, limited to short bursts - if you use it too much you will lose health 
 (HP) .
  
  While the game retains a 'wow!' factor in playing with the dimensions - the audio however, is barely 
 just on par. Music plays well and goes suitably well to the light-hearted nature of the game. It 
 never becomes magnificent but never really dull - although, if you do get stuck in one section 
 of the game the mood can get frustrating due to the 'repeating nature' of sounds. There is also 
 no voice-acting at all, so be prepared to just read speech bubbles over and over and over again. 
 So how does the game play? Well it controls not too dissimilar to the traditonal 2D Mario platformers 
 (minus the 'run button') because of the way you hold the Wiimote on it's side like a S/NES controller. 
 SPM doesn't play as well as the traditional 2D Mario platformers though and the specialty of the 
 turn-based combat in SPM1+2 is also lost. The game is rather too easy, the combat is simple and 
 the plot is cliched. What's really good about the game once you overlook the easy-going nature 
 of the game is the script even though the plot is predictable. Some scenarios and off-beat jokes 
 could really give you the good chuckle and are often the highlights or the special moments of an 
 overall subdued game. There's always a surprise waiting for you in each level. The other good thing 
 about this game are the bosses, they offer a somewhat better challenge and are all pretty unique 
 from another, some are quite breathtaking and others just ooze creativity. And then there are the 
 Pixls you accumulate within your team, each offering there different abilities and helps to add 
 variety into the game, a game which staggers a bit in pace.
  
  In terms of pacing, the game starts off great but seems to drag in the middle. It's only at the 
 end when things really pick up. It would be understandable if many players felt bored of this game 
 after the initial excitement - in my case, i pushed on. I particularly liked the off-beat humour, 
 at one point it felt like the game was mocking 'System Wars' or anything equivalent to it! The 
 questions this game throws at you are quite unexpected and these are some of those special moments 
 of the game which redeems it from being the 'usual tit-tat'. Other special moments (without spoiling 
 too much) include playing the game in space, earning money to pay off some huge debt, or literally 
 getting 'game over' from the very start because you refused to play your role as the 'hero' (: lol: 
 i thought i could just answer any question stupidly and getting a kick out of what the characters 
 had to say!) . There were also some small games to be played in the 'arcade' which used IR and motion 
 controls but weren't all that impressive. I completed the game at around the 15-20 hours mark and 
 there was more to be played out of it if you're willing to get more items or do some levelling 
 up. I wouldn't say it'd be enjoyable as most of the fun to be had is through the in-jokes and the 
 progression through the bosses to the end.
  
  Personally, i felt disappointment due to the change in the winning formula. Super Paper Mario is 
 still a quality game though and will probably be much more enjoyable to the younger crowd and those 
 new to the Paper Mario series. The really good news however is that this game has been out long 
 enough for the price to drop considerably. I've seen the game going for 15 in certain online stores 
 - when i bought my copy, the game subbornly remained at around 25. This game is definitely worth 
 15 though, so don't let my disappointment put you off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polodoro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 1:43 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is arguably the second best R. P. G. to come from Nintendo for the Wii (second 
 only to Super Mario Galaxy of Cause) . The game all though may seem short to begin with turns out 
 to be mildly lengthy, the main factor behind this being the difficulty of some of the puzzles. 
 Because you have so many tools at your disposal it is often difficult to think which character, 
 pixl or item works here. But that all just adds to the feeling of achievement you get at the end. 
 The story is also well thought out and implemented and the use of a new super villain really freshens 
 it up, a lot. The 3D flipping factor in the game is also an excellent innovation, a realm very 
 much unexplored by the regular game because really your playing two separate games at once. Despite 
 all the excellently constructed features you already know about there is still some strategic elements 
 that creep into the equation. You often have to plan for certain situations and know exactly what 
 weapon is going to annihilate your enemies, and trust me there is a lot of enemies. My only criticism 
 is that some of the puzzles grow steadily more frustrating and sometimes there is way to much freedom 
 when your trying to find a heart pillar that is in another universe you had no idea existed (man 
 that's a mouthful) ! All in all Super Paper Mario is an adventure very well constructed and well 
 worth $40 you can pick it up for when it is on special. Super Paper Mario is a game that all Wii 
 owners should buy and you really have to experience it to understand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eldes55
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong- Super Paper Mario is a fun game and have the tight controls you would expect 
 from a Nintendo game. But for paper mario fanboys, this game is a big dissapointment. in fact, 
 its not even a real Paper Mario game. the only characters that are acually paper are the main cast. 
 Most of the other characters in the game are made out of bits or blocks or funny-looking shapes. 
 the same goes for the world, which is also made out of bits, blocks, or funny-looking shapes.
 
  The biggest flaw in the game, however, is the primitive level system. it takes out the exploration 
 and cripples the games side quests. Sure there are towns and puzzles and friendly characters but 
 it does not feel right. this makes the game feel more like a Super Mario Bros game but, come on!! 
 it's not like Nintendo does not have enough SMB titles, so why did they mess with the award- winning 
 formula of Nintendo's best RPG?? anyway, with the new gameplay, new stuff, and the sacrifice of 
 most of the games famous landmarks, a mario fan will find this game decent, but to a paper mario 
 fan, this game is a dissapointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _BRIAN_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is what all Paper Mario fans have been waiting for. but alot of fans might have been 
 disappointed when The RPG aspect was taken out of the game. doing so you could even say that they 
 took the heart out of the game. But the soul is still there.
  
  The first Paper Mario like game would be the classic Super Mario RPG. That game would start the 
 Paper Mario saga. Paper mario is a sequel to that game but Nintendo has taken out the RPG. But 
 it doesn't mean the new style isn't fun. In fact it's tons of fun but it's nothing like how it 
 would have been if they kept the RPG. 
  
  The control scheme of it, is relatively easy. you hold the Wiimote sideways. keep your right thumb 
 above button 1 and 2 and leave your left thumb on the arrows. You use your left thumb to move, 
 and you use your right thumb to attack and jumb. That works increadibly well with the game play 
 itself.
  
  Unlike the previous Paper Mario games, this games gameplay is similar to the first three Super 
 Mario Bros. You start off in a 2-D world, where your fights are based on if you can avoid the enemy, 
 or attack them. Your power is determined on your level. but you can simply flee at any time. you 
 can also use items.
  
  The story is great, and gives a reason for everyone to fight but it has some what of a cheesy love 
 Story that should'n t have been in that game. At the beginning Mario, and Luigi are relaxing when 
 a toad comes saying princess peach has once again been kidnaped. Mario, and Luigi rush to Bowser's 
 castle assuming he was responsible. But as it turns out He was about to send his army to do so. 
 Then a sorcerer comes out with his dark magic and Peach in a cage. He says he kidnapped her to 
 destroy all worlds. At that point it is Marios job to stop him.
  
  The level Disign Itself is amazing. It may look sor of cartoon like but it's still stunning and 
 the music they put with it fits perfectly. The levels are really unique. I'll try not to give in 
 to much but in one level you fight the boss at the beginning. And It's really funny. One character 
 is called francis and he will make you laugh because he is the biggest nerd you will ever see. 
 
  
  
  Instead of partners Mario know recriuts small faries called pixels and has a total of three other 
 friends helping him. They all have different powers. Marios Power is to be able to flip into a 
 3-D world to help solve puzzles. but given that it makes the game a whole lot easier. The story 
 mode may take you 5-10 hours but with all the side quests it could easily be bumbed up to 15-20 
 hours.
  
  There are a lot of side quests. for instence you could go down to different pits of a hunderd trials. 
 That is when you have to defeat enemies intill you find a key in under 5 mins. You have to repeat 
 that 100 times intill you get to a boss. There's also the fight against samourais. you have to 
 defeat a hundred samourais. Every has a boss and a check point unlike the pit of a hundred trials. 
 You can also look for treasure, cook books and even cards.
  you will be busy for a long time. 
  
  Overall This is a great game that still has the classic 
 Paper mario humor and puzzles with an exciting new game play style. The Graphics are amazing and 
 the songs fit into the game like a bolt into a screw. If you have a Wii or a fan of the series 
 you should defiantly buy or just take a look into this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mowser31
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 7, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  I want to make this review snappy so, here I go (In Mario voice) . Well I was expecting more out of 
 this game. It was a little to easy. I like the way you can switch out from Mario to bowser for 
 example. The story was great and also funny. The boos fights were to easy though. Especially the 
 last boss. READ AHEAD IF YOU WAN TO KNOW A EASY WAY TO BEAT LAST BOSS IF NOT READ PAST THIS (Be 
 bowser and give him that meat item that doubles his attack and go on the hover pixel) . Well after 
 beating the game the only challenge in you way is the 100 floor place which is very hard because 
 you have to go through it 3x. The replay value on this is not that great (finding all the cards) 
 but it will keep you playing the game for a long time. If you are a fan of the past paper Mario's 
 then you should get this game, just a plain old Mario fan, or love 2D plat formers than this is 
 the game for you. Overall it is a good game just a little disappointing.
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathew_vartuli
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 5:32 am PT
Review:  When i first got Super Paper Mario i thought that this would be another crap storyline of saving 
 Peach from Bowser. To my suprise, there's a whole new storyline. Your really saving no one, but 
 you are? A new monster has hit the streets, called COUNT BLECK, here to destroy the world. Count 
 Bleck creates a terrible black void which slowly gets bigger and bigger before it wipes out all 
 the world. While all this is being processed, Bleck manages to kidnap Peach and Luigi ( if i remember 
 correctly) . You are then sent to go and save Peach and Luigi. While you are on your way, you find 
 Bowser. Mario then asks him to join him and search for peach and luigi. Bowser agrees and for the 
 first time, Bowser and Mario are on the same team. throughout the game you manage to find peach 
 and luigi and rescue them, which means that you can be whoever you want. You then get to Count 
 Bleck's place and kill him and win, like in every single game.
  
  Whats good about the game is that there are extras to this game. You can turn into either 2D or 
 3D, which is a good feature and lets you do more exciting things with the game. There are also 
 pixels. These small things are great and help you in sticky situations. One lets you hover, others 
 let you listen to music, one makes you jump high and there are many others. The game isn't just 
 a 5 hour game. This game took me at least 30 hours to finish. Which is good, because is challenges 
 you, A LOT. Maybe too much. At some points, the game annoyed me a lot. There are 8 different warp 
 rooms, and before you enter each one, you have find it. Towards the end, finding these things were 
 as hard as finishing Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas. I had to go to IGN and look at the guide to 
 help me. The audio on Paper Mario is good, because no know speaks in the game. They just have bubbles 
 upon there head and it says what they are syaing. Saying this, it takes a while to get to the next 
 mission, because it takes ages to read all the info.
  
  When you have finished the game, there are many other things to do. There are levels where you 
 have to pass 100 levels without dying, which takes a while. There is also a battle ground, where 
 you have to pass 100 levels, which is also very challenging.
  
  To conclude, Paper Mario is a great game for the person who likes to be challenged. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woohooboogoo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Obviously me being the rpg fan around here, super paper mario is one of those action rpg games. 
 For those who don't know what that is, it is your comon rpg, however, there is no going into battle 
 though you still defeat the enemies. The story is great where you are launnched into another dimension 
 to face off against this big baddie and his gang luckily the odds are not so low. Foruntately, 
 some friends and at least one enemy passed over with you. Enough of the story though. The gameplay 
 is excellent and the aspects of the game are awesome. There's cooking, the arcae, cards to collect, 
 and the return of the pit of 100 trials! The graphics are great and most of the visuals ar hilarious, 
 The fact that you can switch di mensions is astounding. eachof your characters have special abilities 
 that get you through the game. The game is great overall and i hope you enjoy it too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edmond1997
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  notice: This is a late reveiw. Sorry for the inconveinents.
  
  
  Super Paper Mario uses RPG elements that is with and without normal them. First it doesn't use effective 
 and uneffective types. Also you need to use a stratagy to defeat bosses.
  The saving boxes are really the main reason it sucks a little. They are not automatic. Also sometimes 
 the puzzle elements are really hard and you often take 2 hours wondering where to go.
  Super Paper Mario is different from the other paper marios. It isn't Mario and his partner. It is 
 just yourself, and thats all.
  The characters are Mario, Peach, Bowser and Luigi. This paper mario is split in 8 chapters with four 
 parts each. Now there are pixels (i think they are called) are known to help you attack, defend and 
 many more. The characters all have different attacks and abilities. My favourite character out of 
 the 4 is Peach. She can defend and is a great combination with boomer.
  The story is very funny. All the characters have a different roll in the game. If you love regular 
 RPG, there is the trial where you have to defeat the 3 chain chomps. The mini battles are a bit too 
 easy. Still this game is good for RPG newcomers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shy_Guy_Red
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is the third Paper Mario game, but you would be surprised to discover that it 
 is widely different from the other installments. Taking the series in a completely new direction, 
 Super Paper Mario is a game you will either love or hate. I love it. So...... how is the series 
 changed here?
  
  Well first I'll start with my favorite part of the game, it's a platformer with RPG elements! Now 
 this is my favorite part of the game because it works! And it's fun! It's like a brand new genre! 
 You'll spend time learning enemies attack patterns and how to dodge them and you'll learn different 
 attacks as you go on your adventure and will level up to increase your attack and heart points 
 and you'll get items you can use and..... it's just like an RPG. There are no equip items sadly, 
 but it's okay. Every time you fall off the edge you only take 1 damage, but it's easier to fall 
 off because of that, so it's cool to see the levels changed to fit the RPG elements. It's like 
 good old Mario, but with an RPG twist!
  
  With that being said, this means that there are a lot of puzzles like in every RPG and solving 
 them all in a 2D plain would be very difficult to create. Luckily, Nintendo added the ability to 
 switch between 2D and 3D. This is also really cool and a great part of the game. In fact, this 
 will let you see games in a whole different way. After I played this game and went to others I 
 would think, "Hm... what would happen if he switches to 2D?" And it was cool. 
  
  You have to use this ability constantly to get through the levels and even to defeat certain enemies 
 and bosses. However, Mario is the only one that can use this ability, so you'll use him the most, 
 which i dislike, because I really like using Bowser more. However, it is still real cool and it's 
 nice to test out and see where you'll be when you "flip" and what will happen to objects and enemies 
 when you "flip."
  
  The graphics are very good, like it's hard to say if it could get better. It's cool how worlds 
 will be drawn out when you first enter them and the elevator is drawn. I like this and it adds 
 a sort of imaginative touch to it (don't think that was right word) . The music is also catchy and 
 has cool remixes of old tunes and is great!
  
  The story is also very different. Most likely being the darkest Mario game (although that's not 
 saying much) , the story of Super Paper Mario has twists and great characters with personality you'll 
 love. Each character seems to have its own way of talking and its cool and actually real funny. 
 I actually laughed out loud a couple times while playing this game. It's funny and the text is 
 great!
  
  However, one thing I did not like about the game was that the boss battles were WAY too easy. While 
 the levels had average difficulty, most of the bosses were real easy and you could beat them with 
 no trouble. The final battle is a real disappointment too, so don't expect much there.
  
  
  One more thing, a lot of people seemed to not like how the Wii remote was used. Personally, 
 I thought it was good. The action commands which are still in are used for items and saving yourself 
 from certain attacks and effects and every action command involves the Wii remote in some way and 
 you use a Pixl's ability with the Wii remote. It works good and I like it, and I think the controller 
 was executed well in this game.
  
  Also, many people complained this game was short, and while it is short, it has a lot of replay 
 value! Truth, I beat this game at around 20 hours, but I've already clocked in about 5 more just 
 clearing extra stuff. There is lots to do in this game when you are done, and unlike the other 
 Paper Mario games, you'll want to complete most of the extra stuff, so it really isn't that short.
 
  
  So, to sum things up, Super Paper Mario puts RPG elements into a platformer as well as the ability 
 to switch from 2D to 3D, which are both real cool and fun. The bosses are easy, the 3D should've 
 been compatible with other characters, and more RPG elements could've been put in, but the fact 
 that the series is going so far into unseen territory by combining 2 genres and switching dimensions 
 makes this game one that you won't forget and an instant classic.
  
  Actual score: 9.25 (this is what I want to give it but I can't cause of the review system, so I 
 just rounded up because this game is unappreciated) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tavares17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  Yes he's back with an Old school game, with a twist of flipping into 3D. It may be totally differn't 
 but it still is a really good game old school style. This time it's Count Bleck as your Nemesis 
 instead of Bowser which is good because people were getting tired of kicking his butt. It has a 
 really strong message at the end of the game and a really fun , and enjoyable story. With 8 worlds 
 and plenty of levels. You have also many of sidekicks and differn't characters to use (won't spoil 
 them) . Another really cool thing about it is you use the 3D effect to unlock many things treasures 
 and many others. A new feature is that you have levels so, when you level up Mario or whoever becomes 
 stronger which is okay but, takes something out of old school gaming. Super Paper Mario is a great 
 old school gaming with a perfect twist of changing from 2D to, 3D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super-wario-bro
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 23, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  It appears that Nintendo were thinking more about the hole and not enough about the doughnut when 
 they were making Super Paper Mario!!! The hole is the centre piece that grabs your attention first 
 and makes the doughnut more appealing. In SPM's (super paper Mario) case the hole is the nice cartoon 
 graphics, trusted 2D platforming with the originality of flipping to 3D, the retro gaming that 
 has been fusioned to spm, and the rpg elements that has made the game so appealing in previous 
 versions. And of course the doughnut itself is the tasty bit you eat and the reason you spent your 
 money on the tasty snack. So in spm's case the doughnut is the game in its tasty complete form.
 
  Hopefully you are still reading this and you don't think I am mad for talking too much about doughnuts 
 (last time I promise) , but when I first saw SPM pictures and videos I thought it was amazing. 
 
  As it turns out, the 2D/3D flipping is a wonderful experience and leaves you wishing you could 
 go back to all the older 2d Mario games to flip them into 3d. You rarely ever have a blocked view 
 in 3d and never wonder why it does not look right because it flips so accurately.
  The graphics are nice and smooth and the rpg elements of battle are still present (with all new 
 Pixls to help you on your way) .
  The sweetest part of the SPM experience is the retro touch that Nintendo has included. Seeing Mario 
 grow to the size of the screen (to the theme music of when Mario collects a star) and with a superb 
 cut scene will make you grin from ear to ear.
  So as you can probably tell, I have a soft spot for SPM and I feel a bit bad making negative comments 
 about it but all of its good points don't last long enough. The power ups are left readily available 
 at convenient spots on certain levels only, and 3d will only be required at certain times (at other 
 times its pointless) . This meaning that the game is really short. There simply is not enough of 
 the good stuff included to make this a stunning game and as a result the game has been bulked out 
 with lazy long repetitive levels involving walking along a plain white back ground for 5 whole 
 minutes or killing a Goomba guard then going through a door and repeating the process another 30 
 times to enter a building. 
  And on top of this SPM is so text heavy. All of the cut scenes will last 10 minutes each and involve 
 button bashing and heavy text. On top of this all the text is aimed at children, which is confusing 
 because there is too much for a child to read but its too childish for an adult player.
  
  THE SUMMARY
  So as you can see the doughnut was not considered in the process of making this 
 game. Make sense? Really? Think about it. Rent it and dont buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LK9988
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  well, in grapics it's the best one but games aren't all about grapics! as the title says, i'm not 
 calling this game bad, just that the other "paper mario" games are better than this one. anyway, 
 here's the summing up.
  
  sound: better than paper mario 1 but not as good as the soundtracks in paper mario 2. 8/10
  
 
  gameplay: this is mainly the reason why it's the worst in the "paper mario" series. you see, the 
 others were turn based ( like most final fantasy games which i dearly love!) and it used some thought. 
 While on this one, all you have to do pretty much is bounce on them and there dead! and you get 
 these little weird looking pixl thingies which are no where near as good as the previous partners. 
 overall in gameplay: 5/10
  
  story: it has a good storyline but some bits are weird short answer: alright 8/10
  
  the main 
 thing what covers up these bad things are the hilariously funny cutscenes! well i'm almost outta 
 space so last words: rent this game before buying it! that's all folks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lil_Wii_MVP_13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  Basically, I think that this is a very great game. First of all, I was very surprised when I noticed, 
 in only 10 minutes of playing, that this game has the one thing many other games don't have......... 
 GOOD HUMOR!!!! Some of the characters are very funny. They say and do so many crazy things that 
 I never thought they would. The game also is VERY FUN!! It's every thing you would want. It's like 
 you're playing as Mario in a movie! The story is UNFOLDING, with many different SURPRISES and TWIST. 
 It's great that there is MORE THAN ONE PLAYABLE CHARACTER, too. I loved the game from the start, 
 amd I think you will like it, too. The only reason why I didn't give the game a perfect 10 is because 
 I think it COULD'VE BEEN A LITTLE LONGER. After the story was over, I didn't know what else to 
 do but find "hints and cheats" from... (where else?) and walk around. Still, I loved the game and 
 ecspecially the REALLY GREAT ENDING! Oh, if you get it, DON'T SKIP THE  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathScape666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 1:08 am PT
Review:  You might have played the two previous Paper Mario titles. If you haven't, then you should. Both 
 of them featured turn-based combat, sort of like the most Final Fantasy games are played, except 
 more fun. This entry in the series is very different. The combat plays like Super Mario Brothers, 
 but there's RPG elements to the game, and the storyline plays a primary role in the game. The big 
 twist this time around is that you can change the world from the second dimension to the third 
 dimension and back, but only with Mario.
  
  Let's start with the storyline. It's awesome. It starts out like a typical Mario RPG. You have 
 to obtain eight Pure Hearts in order to save the world from turning into oblivion by Count Bleck. 
 Count Bleck is a new character that just seems evil at first, but as time goes on, you'll see that 
 he actually has a painful past. The dialogue is as funny as ever, and World 3-4 has got to be one 
 of the most hilarious levels in gaming history, with gaming/anime nerd, Francis. It's a joy. Seriously.
 
  
  The gameplay is truly brilliant. Not everything is as it seems. You have four characters: Mario, 
 Bowser, Peach, and Luigi. Luigi can jump super high as usual. Peach can float with her umbrella. 
 Bowser does extra damage with his fire. Mario, the character you'll obviously play most as, is 
 the only one that can switch from 2D to 3D. It's really quite awesome how many puzzles work with 
 both dimensions. Not everything is as it seems, and when you are stuck, you might have to flip 
 the dimension to see if you can find something you didn't see before.
  
  The puzzles don't seem to be as hard this time around, but they still provide a fairly good challenge. 
 Most of the puzzles are done in the second and third dimension. For example, you'll have to flip 
 to the third dimension to see these certain blocks. Once there, you must hit the blocks to see 
 them in the second dimension. You can then hop on those blocks and do the required task. It sounds 
 simple, but things get more complicated as the game goes along.
  
  One complaint I have with the third dimension is that sometimes things just seem barren. The second 
 dimension looks excellent, but the third Not so much. Sometimes everything just seems empty. For 
 the most part, it's "good," but nothing to be praised about.
  
  The combat plays like the traditional Super Mario Brothers would, except you have a health meter, 
 fortunately. You just walk around, jumping on enemies, but you actually get experience points that 
 raises your stats. The enemies are also a lot tougher than the original Super Mario Brothers' enemies, 
 of course, and sometimes you'll have to do more than just jumping on them to defeat them. You can 
 also use defensive and offensive items, but this honestly just makes things even easier than it 
 is. The game is just really easy.
  
  Throughout the game, you'll encounter Pixls. Pixls are interesting looking creatures that have 
 certain powers. One grants you the ability to use a hammer. One will uncover hidden objects by 
 pointing to it on the screen. One will give you the ability to ground pound. One will carry you 
 across spikes. There's more, but that's just to name a few. Think of them as the partners you had 
 in the past Paper Mario games, except they don't play a primary role in combat.
  
  Mostly, Super Paper Mario plays a lot like the past two Paper Mario games, story-wise. After you 
 require a Pure Heart, you'll go back to Merlyn and find out where to go next. You then proceed 
 to the next chapter and solve the problem there. Each chapter has a different story to it. Most 
 of the time, a certain group will have a problem that you must solve, and you just so happen to 
 get a Pure Heart out of it. It sounds simple, but the stories are actually very enjoyable to read. 
 I have never had an RPG's story capture me like Super Paper Mario's. It really is quite brilliant, 
 and I like the colorful charm they have.
  
  To play the game, you flip the Wii Remote on its side, and then play it old school. The motion 
 sensing is not forced, and not used that often. You control Mario with the D-Pad, and you jump 
 and do other actions with the 1 and 2 buttons. It works out better than you'd think.
  
  The graphics are colorful and what you would expect from a Paper Mario game. Although it was originally 
 supposed to be a GameCube game, it still looks like a pretty darn good Wii game. It sounds even 
 better than it looks. There's no voice acting, but the tune every town has are all hummable.
  
  The game is fairly long. It took me twenty-two hours to beat, and there's plenty of more things 
 to do after you beat the game. I admit that finding recipes and fighting one hundred enemies in 
 a row isn't exactly the most exciting thing, but it is a nice distraction from the main game.
 
  
  In the end, Super Paper Mario is an interesting twist on the Paper Mario series. Think Paper Mario 
 combined with Super Mario Brothers, and you have yourself a winner. The boss battles are fun, the 
 puzzles put up a good challenge, the dialogue is better than ever, the humor is perfectly intact, 
 the characters are all memorable, the gameplay is solid, and the overall game is just awesome. 
 It's one of those games that you'll look back on and smile, because there's nothing quite like 
 it. Super Paper Mario is one of the finest games on the Nintendo Wii, and you owe it to yourself 
 to play it, especially if you are a fan of platformers, RPGs, and most of all, Mario.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Emblem_RD
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 8, 2008 1:54 am PT
Review:  When i heard about the release of the Paper Mario series on the Wii, i rushed out, bought it and 
 immediately turned it on, expecting the same good old experience that has made me constantly get 
 out my old disc, and nintendo cartridge to replay the previous games, but when it actually started, 
 it was completely different.
  it seems jumping and using 'pixls' is all you can use, unless your bowser. The always helpful and 
 interesting sidekicks were scratched and replaced. 
  Although it wasnt all that bad the storyline was nothing compared to the others, like in the Thousand 
 Year Door, while there were 7 stars to memory, you didnt just go there, you had to get there somehow, 
 there were extra things to do, and it was longer.
  It just seemed that it was a Paper Mario Wii version of the New Super Mario brothers, but you could 
 look at the screen side on. and really if you think about it, that doesnt really make for the game 
 we're used to. 
  So although the newest installment provides a somewhat good level of play and entertainment, it 
 is heavily hindered by the loss of the brilliant RPG gameplay that veterans of the series love. 
 It might be good, but why cut out all these other factors that made its previous games brilliant. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mika93
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 6, 2008 12:43 am PT
Review:  I have played the original Paper Mario and Paper Mario: A Thousand-Year Door and I really enjoyed 
 those. And although not exactly a Paper Mario, I own Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time, which I 
 think is very similar to Paper Mario's gameplay system, and I think it is one of the best games 
 DS has to offer. 
  
  When I read that there was a new Paper Mario game coming to Wii I was overjoyed. The game seemed 
 even better than the previous installations. So of course I bought it as soon as it came out. I 
 liked it at first but as I played it further it become really boring and frustrating. There was 
 also great humor in the previous games. I spent most of my game time laughing while playing them. 
 As for Super Paper Mario I shed more tears than laughed.
  
  The graphics for the game are alright. Although I would have expected a little more detailed level 
 design etc. Something to show what Wii is capable of. But the graphics have nothing to do with 
 my score.
  
  The levels of Super Paper Mario are just horrible! They're really frustrating and the puzzles aren't 
 all that fun and really repetitive. There were many times when I almost gave up playing because 
 the levels were so frustrating (yep, I'm talking about the space level) .
  
  The game is controlled by flipping your Wii mote sideways, moving your character with the arrows 
 and jumping with "2" and so on. Super Paper Mario doesn't use the Wii mote's capabilities at all, 
 (except when you want to ask for help from Tippi, when you just point at the screen and Tippi will 
 explain something from the object you just pointed... Yep, it doesn't help you too much) but as 
 not a big fan of the Wii mote, I don't mind.
  
  As for the gameplay itself, it is pretty much the same as previous Paper Mario's. There is two 
 new features, the 3-D view and the new battle system.
  The 3-D view just makes the level's more confusing and I can't recall many places where it was 
 used well. It was a good idea, but it was not done very well. As for the battle system: I hate 
 it! In Super Paper Mario, when you encounter foes, you aren't taken to a stage or such to battle 
 them in a turn based battle system, you fight them in real time. That is, you just jump on them 
 and they're basically dead (well not the harder foes, but at least goombas) . It makes beating up 
 your enemies like a walk in the park. If there was a challenging battle, I missed it. Super Paper 
 Mario isn't an rpg anymore. Sure you do get experience from the foes you beat up, but if they made 
 a new Super Mario Bros. with foes who give experience, would that make it an rpg? Don't think so.
 
  
  All in all, Super Paper Mario was a huge disappointment for me. It lacks the humor and innovative 
 puzzles I enjoyed so much in the previous games. There are some things I enjoyed like the minigames 
 and playing as Bowser, but that isn't nearly enough to save this game. To speak the truth, I didn't 
 even finish the game (which is something I rarely do) . Unless all the good stuff are in the last 
 two levels, I have no reason to do that in the future either. Let's just wait for the next Mario 
 and Luigi-game and hope it is better than Super Paper Mario. Also for the difficulty, I would have 
 given it hard, but the easy-mode-bosses lower it a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterinns
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2008 4:07 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed playing this even though it is much more of a mixed-genre game than either of 
 its predecessors, combining as it does platforming and puzzling with the original RPG style. Personally 
 I think this is an improvement over the two previous games in the series, although this is clearly 
 something of a hotly debated topic. For me, the added extra types of gameplay extend the life of 
 the game, making it a really interesting and rewarding experience overall. I particularly like 
 Mario's 2D to 3D "flip" ability, I think I will never be bored of being able to do that, it's such 
 a fun feature of the game. 
  
  In summary, this really is a very good game - it's simple to pick up and play, it always offers 
 something new each time it is played, and it is certainly a worthy addition to the Paper Mario 
 series. My only criticism is that it is perhaps a little bit on the easy side, but that is of course 
 a very subjective thing given how differently skilled at game-playing we all are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjgamefreak
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2008 11:31 pm PT
Review:  I like RPG's and this is one of the best! It is better than any other Paper Mario video game that 
 has ever came out! This game describes fun in a different way. I love how you can change from 2-D 
 to a 3-D screen and find hidden items and secrets. At sometimes on the game you can walk upside 
 down, on sides of wall, and in the back round. At first it's kind of confusing, but if you get 
 use to it, then it gets very addictive. There are some stages on the game that are just like the 
 classic Super Mario Brothers game stages which is another thing I really like. The playable characters 
 you can be are Mario (of course) , Princess Peach, Luigi, and even Bowser! You go to places to buy 
 objects and weapons, to regain H. P. and to buy trading cards. If anybody likes Role-playing games, 
 and the Super Mario Brothers, then this game should be in anybody's Nintendo Wii collection.
  
  
  Overall 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waZelda
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 23, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  When Paper Mario first appeared with a 2D Mario in a 3D world and with a combat system using commands 
 instead of jumping, it was far away from other Mario games and one of the craziest games there 
 is. With funny dialogues it was a new story of how you need to save Peach from Bowser.
  
  Super Paper Mario is pretty diferent. The combat system is set to the system from other Super Mario 
 games, but with the help og pixls (that are your helpers this time around) . You are no longer a 
 2D Mario in a 3D world. You are now in a world that is part 2D, part 3D. A unique conscept giving 
 the game some great puzzles. The story is also diferent. It is deeper and darker. Here it goes:
 
  
  When Peach is kidnapped, Mario and Luigi suspects Bowser, but find that he is not responsible. 
 Suddenly a strange figure appears and kidnaps Bowser and Luigi. Turns out the figure is named Count 
 Bleck. He forces Peach to marry Bowser in order to create a chaos heart which, according to the 
 prophecy of the Dark Prognosticus, will let him destroy all worlds. A Pixl named Tippi appears 
 and transfer Mario to Flipside, a place between dimentions, where he will have to find eight pure 
 hearts, because he is the hero described in the light Prognosticus and it is his destiny to save 
 all worlds.
  
  There is a lot more to the story, but I won't spoil it for you. However I will say it involves 
 a love story. The story might be the best story in any Mario game, yet that is no mayor accomplishment 
 considering they rarely are deep.
  
  As for the gameplay, the dimention flipping works great when it comes to puzzles. It is really 
 drazy puzzles and the design of the game is never cooler than when you are in 3D. When it comes 
 to combat though, it really isn't that good. In 2D you feel a little to slow, and 3D really doesn't 
 feel 3D and you can easily miss when trying to jump on an enemy. It bugs me as well that you lose 
 life if you stay in 3D to much. In this game you can find and then play as Peach, Bowser and Luigi 
 as well. It doesn't add a lot, but it feels pretty good to go into combat with Bowser. The boss 
 fights is pretty good, but not all of them. Some boss fights are all the same.
  
  When it comes to design, it is cooler then in Paper Mario, but it takes away some of Paper Mario's 
 charm. Also, it isn't always as cool. Sometimes it just looks like a comic book drawn by a seven 
 years old. Most of the characters look lame, not because they are 2D, but because it seems the 
 makers haven't put much work into making them look good. Sometimes you really miss the Mushroom 
 Kingdom.
  
  It seems this game is supposed to be somewhat a spin-off in the series. It is different when it 
 comes to both gameplay and design and it doesn't take place in Mushroom Kingdom. This makes it 
 a really unique game. If I were to come to a conclusion: The dialogues are as funny and sometimes 
 funnier than in paper mario, the story is better, the gameplay a little worse, the design cool 
 in someways, but not so cool in other ways. Yet I feel this is the right way to take the series. 
 When it comes to Paper Mario, the crazier the better. I do recommend the game, at least if you 
 like puzzles and RPGs. It is unique, and I feel confident to say you will never find a similar 
 game and you won't regret you played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevinmaxtor
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Paper Mario is back! It's better then before, this is the latest addition to the series of Paper 
 Mario games, it does have what it takes to be a great plat former. It allows only one player at 
 a time, and uses just one control configuration. The wii mote is the only why to play Paper Mario 
 sadly, there is no classic and Game Cube controllers to use. You play the game with the wii mote 
 held sideways, then you can use it like a classic controller, this game is partly motion sensitive, 
 like jumping is used by flicking the remote and finding hidden objects is by pointing and aiming 
 on the screen. The graphics are a little improved over the lat Paper Mario, the sound and music 
 of the game is about the same, still the great old tracks. Paper Mario is a 2D game, then you can 
 flip it to be a 3D type with a push of a button later in the game. Using the 3D mode will help 
 you find hidden objects and items. The objective is the save, save princess Peach. This time however 
 you will be facing new enemies. Paper Mario did set new ground for 2D plat formers, back when it 
 was released, it changed the way people played plat formers. Over all this is one of the higher 
 ranked games for the Wii, so I give it a 9.0! Get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaBrownie
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  It's been about four years since a Paper Mario game was releaded. This is one of the best RPGs 
 a person can get on the Wii!
  
  The storyline is hillarious, the different powers you gain throughout the game is priceless, and 
 boss battles are oddly epic as well as funny for a Mario game. Though, the only thing wrong with 
 the storylines comedy is who it's ment for. The jokes that are cracked in the game are something 
 you would hear out of a five year old, since they are usually potty jokes.
  
  Yet, for anyone who doesn't mind jokes about poop and pee, then this is a good game. A boss battle 
 in a womens bathroom and an alien who ran out of toilet paper... Priceless... for a kid. It depends 
 on your tasts. The game has great gameplay balance, but some of the jokes arn't funny to some people, 
 leaving the person to think poorly about this game.
  
  This game was ment to be released for the Gamecube, but falling behind the clock forced it on the 
 Wii. You can tell, because of the lack of motion sensing controls. But combat is easy, and the 
 controls are solid.
  
  Besides the sometimes lame potty jokes and lack of motion sensing controls, it's a great game. 
 One of the best on the Wii, and innovative in the 2D to 3D in a button press function. It's just 
 not for everyone, ecpecially those who are more fond of the original Mario games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aislin0127
Rating: 6
Date: May 13, 2008 3:44 am PT
Review:  Ah, Paper Mario. The different style of graphics, the hilarious dialogue, the fun characters you 
 meet (and add to your party) along the way, the badges, the unique-ness that these games are unlike 
 any other Mario game in existence. It seems the only thing that Super Paper Mario takes from this 
 fond reminiscing is to dash them all out of the window, save for one: the graphics... maybe the 
 characters, but really... not so much.
  
  The fun that one had in the previous Paper Mario games, was that you met random characters (usually 
 considered 'bad guys' in original Mario games -- Goomba's, Koopa's, Parakoopa's, what-have-you) and 
 those random kooky characters aiding you in your quest, as you fight bad guys not in the typical 
 fashion, but rather on a stage, in front of an audience.
  
  Super Paper Mario just took that, and moved it aside. No longer do we get characters like Goombario 
 or Goombella, but, to me more importantly, you don't get the same fight quality. And you certainly 
 don't get one of the things I, and many others, found so wonderful about the games: badges.
  
  To those uninformed: in the first two Paper Mario games, you collected badges and they helped 
 you in battle in different ways. You could become more powerful, your weapons could be better, 
 et cetera. It was a small, but to me, very important part of the game: it gave one a sense of freedom, 
 as you leveled up and could choose between your HP, FP (oh flower points, how doth I miss thee?) 
 and your BP, and as you chose the BP you know that your battling would only become stronger and 
 better, and that the enemy stood no chance. And what do you get in Super? To bounce on someones 
 head. Considering that fact that I can use Wii points to get the original Mario and do the exact 
 same thing for a lot less money, pardon me while I gag in the other room.
  
  Now, all of this aside, Super is a good game. By itself. Without being a part of the series. I 
 like the pixls that help you go farther in the game, the storyline (I actually cried at one part... 
 oh hush it) , even the switching from 2-d to 3-d is cool in that you can find hidden items and the 
 like, however, did anyone else find the whole flipside/flopside thing too confusing that you wanted 
 to take your little wii-mote to the creators of the game and shove it where the sun doesn't shine?
 
  
  In conclusion, I have only this to say: Nintendo, if you make another Paper Mario game.... would 
 you please bring back badges, and the stage? They are sorely missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamenerd15
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 2, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Once again we have a paper mario game. This one combines the old school mechanics of the 2d mario 
 adventure games with minor rpg elements from the regular paper mario games. This game has great 
 art but doesn't look any better than a gamecube game. The gameplay overall is pretty good. You 
 hold the wii mote side ways and it becomes like an NES controller. The coolest feature in the game 
 is that When you press the "A" button you can turn from 2d to 3d and gain a new perspective on 
 the world you are in and can find hidden items as well as solve the puzzle like elements within 
 the game. Within the game you will meet up and can play as Princess Toadstool, Bowser, and Luigi. 
 Each one of these characters has moves that are unique to them. Peach can fly for a limited amount 
 of time, bowser is stronger and can breathe fire, and Luigi can jump high. This all sounds well 
 and good, but there are a few faulty areas that keep this game from being as good as it should 
 have been. Everyone has their own special moves, but you won't need to use most of them all that 
 much. Sure Peach can fly, but you will rarely ever use that move except in the second world or 
 so where it is required. It is the same with Luigi. He can jump high and when you first meet up 
 with him there are parts where you have to use it, but beyond that it is just a waste. During cutscenes 
 like when you stomp on a switch and a bridge appears, the bad guys can continue to come at you 
 and force you to be hurt right after the scene finishes. That is a bit ridiculous since I am frozen 
 and have to wait until the game finishes loading or doing whatever it is supposed to. If you have 
 low health and save in the middle of the level, there is no way to return to the hub town area 
 to buy mushrooms and do the level over. Evem though going into 3d perspective is cool, it seemed 
 like that was the only thing holding the game together for the most part. All you had to do was 
 pretty much push A in different spots on the level to know what to do and so on. I know Mario games 
 aren't known for their storylines, but most of the dialogue was rather horrible and not even funny 
 to read. There is nothing special worth noting about the wii mote other than in spots where you 
 have to use it as a pointer to find hidden things which are pretty obvious anyway. The arcade games 
 were a nice touch although the secret turtle shell smash game was a bit lame, but overall a nice 
 touch. This game will take you awhile to beat, but after you do, you won't want to play it again 
 When it is all said and done this game is still pretty good, but not as awsome as the critics and 
 others would have you believe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blankshore
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 2, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is an absolutlely brilliant game that is completely different from its predicessors. 
 In fact it's not even really an RPG- at least like any other RPG I've ever played before. Instead 
 of engaging in a turn based battle every time you come into contact with- say a goomba- all you 
 need to do is jump on it's head- like in regular mario games. Of course there are other enemies 
 that take a little more work, but for the most part combat is really simple. In fact it's best 
 to think of the game as a super mario game, except there's a compelling story. And mario's paper 
 for some reason. The coolest thing about this game is the fact that you can switch from side scrolling, 
 to 3-D, and because everything is paper, this can unviel some pretty interesting things.
  
  This is one of the best titles on the wii, and I highly recomend this to anyone, even if you're 
 not a fan of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ded_Eye
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Finally, Super Paper Mario, what a great game. With it's funky fresh graphics it will make you 
 wanting to keep coming back to play it.
  
  You can collect over 10 pixles that all have a unique abillity that will help you progress through 
 the game. They vary from ones that make you ground pound like no tomorrow and ones that make you 
 run super fast.
  
  You get a total of three characters that join your team throughout the game.
  Peach who can use 
 her umbrella to glide through the air. Luigi who can coil up and jump super high. And Bowser that 
 can use his fire breath in different ways.
  
  If you ever get stuck in a rut, Super Paper Mario added a new feature. This new feature allows 
 you to flip from regular 2d to 3d. You do this by pressing the A button. Next time you get stuck, 
 just flip.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are really good. personaly, I think that everyone from the Mario series 
 looks better in paper form than in regular form.
  The graphics in this game are top notch.
  
  Gameplay: The game play is really good and even better now because like I said before, they 
 added a new abilliy the flip which makes this game alot better with the pixles and the characters 
 special moves.
  
  Storyline: The story line is that they have a Dark Pognosticus and then in order to repel that 
 Dark Book, they created a Light Prognosticus. And they also hid eight Pure Hearts that you have 
 to find. 
  
  Have Fun and enjoy Super Paper Mario! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IrfaanHafeez
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Super paper Mario is a game for the Wii that delivers plain and simple. It uses the Wii mote right 
 by making it be used sideways. The controller schemes and learning curve are small. It is an easy 
 game to play and is for everyone. The graphics are decent in 2D and 3D and the idea of switching 
 from 2D and 3D is quite interesting and works. It is only a 20 hour game and is pretty easy so 
 anyone can play it and everyone should play it. Its definitely one of the Wiis best games and if 
 your a Mario fan like me you should definitely pick this one up. It uses the items and weapons 
 very good to get u through the games and it is also a game in which you read alot. It at times 
 seems like you are reading to much but it is really funny reading at time. This is a great game 
 that is a definite buy for a Wii owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paperlugi
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  When I heard that Wii was having a new Paper Mario I jumped with joy (well not literally, but inside) . 
 After playing two games with amazing story line and a different feel to any Mario game out there, 
 I believed in the series. Because Paper Mario is not like all the others. The art, the story, characters 
 and the gameplay are all completly different.
  
  Having said that, Super Paper Mario (Wii) stole that all from the series. It brought back the wonderful 
 art style of the series, but then proceeded to drop everything else the game had going for it.
 
  
  The Story: A mediocre one, if even. Bowser and Peaches wedding cause a rip in space or something 
 to that effect... dd. But not exciting at all.
  
  The Characters: All my favorites, just washed away. The original cast that the Paper Mario series 
 has brought along has always shown creativity and personality. But now we get pxls (not even a 
 word...) . Thank god, mildly visible, lifeless, and usually speechless computer bug looking things 
 follow you around. I miss Koops, Watt, Goombario, the little Yoshi dude, they actually gave something 
 to the game.
  
  The Gameplay: This is what just ruined it all. What made Paper Mario unique in the Mario world 
 has the somewhat final fantasy like battle system. It required strategy and thought. But that was 
 replaced with a battle system from Super Mario Bros. (NES) . Jump on the goomba (that's new...) . 
 And the boss battles were too easy, no strategy was needed, jump on them when there back is to 
 you.
  
  I lost respect for the series when this game came out. I refuse to even consider it part of the 
 series. The others were fun and different. The only good thing I saw in this game was the 3-D mode, 
 turning side way to go through hidden doors and such. But we lost what really made this series 
 what it was. I hope that if another game does come along, they bring it back to the good old days, 
 and maybe even bring some of our old friends back too (Watt :] ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: galaxybrawler
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 26, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  this game is one of the best 1 player games out on the wii. i love its humour and easy way to like 
 the bad guys more than the heroes. the game is lengthy and has some great puzles. but its not a 
 challenging game that will frustrate you. its fairly straight forward and simple but it has a great 
 story line with depth. it is one of those games where you fin ish and then hardly play it again. 
 but while you play it the first time it is very enjoyable and will make you laugh. some bad points 
 are that the dialog boxes seem like they go on for ever. they may be funny but sometimes its just 
 too much and they kill jokes with the length. also the sounds are farly average and arnt really 
 a great point. not like mario galaxy. it has the usual mario tunes. also it does get confusing 
 sometimes when you are changing from 2D to 3D the camera view gets annoying as you are more diagonal 
 and this can get anooying. Overall this game is a deffinate must have for wii owners and i reckon 
 even better than paper mario on the n64. it is deffinatley up there with twilight princess and 
 metroid corruption. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthmario123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  In past Paper Mario titles, you played as Mario along with a number of sidekicks and battled with 
 a turn based battle system. In Super Paper Mario, all of that changes. Not only do you play as 
 Mario, but you also play as Peach, Bowser, and Luigi! Each with their own movesets and skills. 
 And instead of turn based battles, you can jump, use items, and use your many pixl abilities on 
 your enemies. Instead of parters, you get pixls. Pixls are little creatures with their own special 
 abilities. There are quite a number of pixls in the game. A really cool addition to this game is 
 the ability to change dimensions. You can go to 2D to 3D in just the touch of a button. So if you 
 are stuck, try flipping dimensions. In additon to playing the storyline, you can do a lot of extra 
 stuff! You can collect character cards which give you information on the character on the card. 
 There is also the pit of 100 trials. Which is 100 rooms full of enemies that you get rewards for 
 reaching a number of rooms. You can also collect food recipies. Super Paper Mario is a great installment 
 in a great series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PikaPikaboo
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Since the start of the Wii console, gamers would wonder when the first Mario game for the platform 
 would come out. In about 5-6 months, fans were rewarded with what they had wished for: Super Paper 
 Mario. Super Paper Mario is the third in the Paper Mario series with the original "Paper Mario" 
 on the Nintendo 64, "Paper Mario: The Thousand Year Door" on the Gamecube and finally this on the 
 Wii. Unlike the other games in the series though, instead of being an RPG, Super Paper Mario is 
 a Side-scrolling Platformer.
  
  The game starts with Mario and Luigi hanging out at his house one day. They suddenly get interrupted 
 when Toad barges in and tells them that Princess Peach has been captured. Mario and Luigi rush 
 to Bowser's Castle only to find out that Bowser wasn't responsible for kidnapping her this time. 
 They soon find out that a mysterious man in white, named Count Bleck, was the one behind the whole 
 scheme. It shows that he posses the Dark Prognosticus. Count Bleck also captures Luigi and Bowser. 
 Apparently his whole plan was for Princess Peach and Bowser to marry each other in order to obtain 
 the Chaos Heart. Count Bleck sends his assistant, Nastasia, to hypnotize Princess Peach into going 
 through with this. Count Bleck is successful and obtains the Chaos Heart. He then uses it to create 
 a Void that will eventually grow large enough to vacuum in the whole universe. Mario then meets 
 a Pixl named Tippi, who guides him to a Wizard named Merlon. Merlon informs Mario that he matches 
 the description of the hero as described by another book called the Light Prognosticus. It is said 
 that the hero can stop the void, thus starting Mario's adventure. Mario's objective is to collect 
 all 8 Pure Hearts in order to stop Count Bleck from banishing the whole universe to nothing. Interlaced 
 throughout the story, there is actually a pretty touchy love story that will form a huge twist 
 within the end of the game.
  
  When you first look at the cover you can sense this game has a very cartoony feel to it. It's not 
 going to have a Grand Theft Auto IV type of visuals mainly because this game is aimed at kids. 
 There usually won't be any kind of blur or pixelation, but the graphics seem very dated. It was 
 fine on the Nintendo 64 and even better on the GameCube, but now it just seems that we've seen 
 a bit too much of these graphics. Honestly, these graphics look too much like the Gamecube predecessor 
 and it doesn't look like it has changed much either. The characters, however, look very cute; almost 
 like a chibi-version of them. the levels look nice, especially with many different types of environments, 
 such as underwater and in space. The most impressive thing though, is the switch from 2D-3D Transitions. 
 In 2D the game looks great, but in 3D it looks fantastic.
  
  The music in Super Paper Mario is one of the most elegantly composed selection in any game I have 
 ever heard. The soundtrack is basically a remixed version of some old tunes, a risk Nintendo took, 
 but it seemed to work out fine. The best thing about the music is that it seems to go perfectly 
 into the level design. The music is pretty much and usually the type of fun, overly happy kind 
 of music that you would expect from Paper Mario. Honestly, you love the music but sometimes the 
 music can get a little annoying, especially in the main town (Flipside) . The music is excellent, 
 but sometimes just seems a bit too childish.
  
  What separated this game from the rest of the series is the change in genres. The past two Paper 
 Mario games were RPGs, whereas Super Paper Mario is a Side-Scrolling Platformer. The greatest change 
 is the use of being able to g from 2D to 3D. When you are in 2D, the game should look like a regular 
 Paper Mario game, however, if you change to 3D, you basically see the same place, but on from the 
 side. Some enemies that were in 2D may turn into just a thin line of paper in 3D mode. This change 
 of how you can look at the levels play very well with level design and the such. Usually if you 
 are stuck, try using 3D. You may find this may be a "way to cheat" by using 3D all of the time, 
 but there is only a set time limit of how long you can stay 3D. A meter on the top left corner 
 of your screen should start depleting whenever you go 3D. To recharge the meter, just step back 
 into 2D, until it recharges on its own. Also, if you go past the time limit given, your meter will 
 return full but at the cost of some HP. There is also a new idea of Pixls that help you around. 
 At a time, you can have up to two Pixls out with you. You can choose one Pixl from the menu and 
 the other Pixl is Tippi, who can help you with a description of your enemy or by making hidden 
 objects/doors appear. You can acquire new Pixls by finding them throughout the story. One Pixl 
 can turn into a bomb and another can become a platform that you ride on. The Pixls act almost as 
 weapons or a special ability in the game. Another great thing about this game is that you can play 
 as multiple characters, including Princess Peach and Bowser, but to try and keep this review spoiler 
 free, I will say no more.
  
  The game is played with the Wiimote turned to its side, as if playing Super Mario Bros. on the 
 Virtual console. Players can shake the Wii Remote to pull off stylish moves that give you more 
 points. You also shake the Wii Remote if you want to break out of ice. There are also, almost, 
 microgames when you use certain items, usually the offensive items. If you point the Wii Remote 
 towards your screen, you can get advice from Tippi, as mentioned above. The only beef I really 
 have with the controls is that it could have used more motion controls instead of just to pull 
 off combos and items.
  
  Now since this is an Adventure game, you may think that once you beat the story you beat the game. 
 While that is usually true for most games, Super Paper Mario begs to differ. With the idea of collecting 
 trading cards in the game, most will try to collect them all just to beat the game 100%. Even after 
 that though, you may come back to Super Paper Mario to replay some of your favorite levels. Super 
 Paper Mario is a fun, quirky game with level designs incredibly entertaining, but the graphics 
 gives this game a childish reputation.
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Story: [8.5/10]
 
  Graphics: [8/10]
  Sound: [8.5/10]
  Gameplay: [9.5/10]
  Controls: [8/10]
  Replay Value: [7.5/10]
  Overall: 8.3
  
  For More Reviews like this, check: http://Wiiniis-United. co. nr 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AweWiiGamer1
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is the latest installment in the RPG Paper Mario series by Nintendo and Intelligent 
 Systems. The game involves Mario, Luigi, Princess Peach and big Bowser to get rid of Count Bleck, 
 before he destroys all of these dimension worlds. 
  
  Super Paper Mario is arguably one of the finest games in the Nintendo Wii games library. Super 
 Paper Mario is both a fun and clever gaming experience. The level design is filled with abstract 
 shapes and sizes, and brimming with life and colour. What makes Super Paper Mario very slick as 
 a game overall is the two dimensions in the game: one the normal 2D universe, and the 3D universe, 
 and being able to flip between them. The flip ability is wonderfully fun, and has easy controls 
 that makes it acsessible for players. Both of these universes are hugely detailed, and arguably, 
 has some of the most unique universes to ever be seen in a Mario adventure.
  
  Super Paper Mario, despite what a awesome game it is, it does have flaws which could of made this 
 game polished to pure perfection. The cutscenes, although funny and entertaining, are very long 
 and do waffle on quite a bit. A lot of dialouge really could of have been cut from this game. As 
 GameSpot have noted, the camera angles are awkward on the 3D enviornments in the game, I agree, 
 because you cannot see what you are doing in the game. Also, the game is very short, and very few 
 things are challenging in the game to make it expansive.
  
  Overall, despite it's faults, Super Paper Mario is a game that will keep you glued to many hours 
 on end, and will win you over with it's forseeable charm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikos21982
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  I had never played any Paper Mario games, so I couldn't imagine how a platform game could be mixed 
 with RPG elements. It wasn't such a big surprise to me, to see that Nintendo can handle well even 
 this weird combination.
  You take a cup of good old Super Mario Bros, and a cup of classic RPGs. You mix them together, 
 and you get Super Paper Mario. So, what we have here is Mario hoping on Koopas' heads, jumping 
 over gaps, entering pipes and everything you'd expect from a 2D Mario game. The things that make 
 this game unique though, are it's RPG elements.
  So, like most RPG games, you have your basic city. This city, is a portal for every world that 
 Mario visits in this game, and also has many secrets itself. Like every major city in RPGs, it 
 also contains various shops. You have the typical inn where Mario can rest to regain his lost health, 
 the typical store where Mario can buy items, a restaurant where you can mix various ingredients 
 to make new items, and so on.
  So, how can items be implemented in a platform game? You just open your interface, and choose an 
 item. So, you can use a mushroom to regain your lost health, a shell to make you more resistant 
 to damage, or attack items that will wipe your foes. After you select the desired item, you are 
 asked to perform specific actions with the wiimote. If you perform them correctly, the item you 
 used has larger effects.
  There are also some guys that help you, called Pixls. There are 12 Pixls in the game, and you can 
 use one at a time. Each one, allows Mario to perform a specific move. For example, there is a Pixl 
 that allows Mario to grab and toss objects and enemies, and a Pixl that allows Mario to run.
  Another new element in the game, is the health system. So, instead of Mario losing a life every 
 time he is hit by an enemy, he loses a certain amount of health, just like in RPGs.
  Another fact about RPGs, is that characters gain levels by defeating opponents. Yes, Mario can 
 level up, gaining more health or strength.
  What also surprised me, is the fact that you don't have to control only Mario. There are 3 more 
 characters that you find later in game, each one with his own abilities (remember Super Mario Bros 
 2?) . So, Luigi can jump higher than every one else, Princess Peach can use her umbrella to float 
 over gaps or defend herself, and Bowser (yes, Bowser!) can breath fire.
  Another new element, is the ability to swap from 2D to 3D. Only Mario can perform this move. So, 
 if you get stuck somewhere, you press the A button, and the screen flips to unveil a stair which 
 you can use to advance in the level etc.
  Since this game is RPG / platform, you also have to expect riddles. Half of the game is riddles, 
 and they will require some brain usage.
  Since Bowser is in your side, you need a new villain. This time he is called Count Bleck, and he 
 is accompanied by his loyal minions.
  You'll wander in castles, swim undesea, hop from cloud to cloud in the sky, visit cities and so 
 on. There are 8 worlds in the game, each one being totally different from the other and containing 
 4 levels. So, you get a total of 32 stages.
  These worlds are implemented with beautiful 2D graphics, and with nice art and colours like in 
 every typical Mario game. Don't expect Mario Galaxy's graphics though when you swap from 2D to 
 3D, cause they remain the same. The only difference is that you can now travel in 3 dimensions.
 
  The music and effects are nice like in every Mario game, but you will never listen to any of the 
 characters talking. You will only see written dialog, and here is the game's only fault: The dialogues 
 are too long sometimes, and you just can't skip them. So, if you die, you have to read the same 
 lines over and over again. Since this game is mostly a platform, I would prefer less dialogue and 
 more action. But it didn't really spoil my experience, since i'm the type of gamer that likes to 
 see the story evolving. Not all gamers have the same patience though.
  If you are a Mario fan, you should definitely buy this title. If you are not a Mario fan, you should 
 again buy this title to experience something new. What everyone has to be expecting is a surprise 
 in every stage, and a beautiful game with many secrets and challenges to unveil, which will last 
 for almost 50 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2008 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay/Interface: 8.5/10
  - Story interesting and very easy to follow no matter what age. Pretty humerous game sometimes 
 a bit hokey. 3D switching and use of bots or fairies is very useful and helps for solving puzzles. 
 Puzzles can sometimes take a while to figure out but truely is fun. I was annoyed on how many times 
 I had to back track to finish quests, I don't like running back through parts I've already played 
 to do things.
  
  Environment & Immersion: 7/10
  - Sometimes too many pixel puzzles and not enough true gameplay. Too many times was I spending 
 more times trying to figure out what the heck to do than actually doing what I was supposed to. 
 It was somewhat hard to REALLY get into the character and story. I've had this game for sometime 
 now and I've yet to actually beat it. 
  
  Graphics/Physics: 9/10
  - Theres no way I could rate this part low being they integrated the 3d use AND the way the wiimote 
 is used to do things. It's graphics have a certain old-school feel to it which appeals to the classic 
 mario fans. ALSO when you get the enlargement powerup, you turn into a giant 8bit mario or which 
 ever character you might play as.
  
  Sound: 7.5/10
  - Great gameplay sound but music or background sound was either almost non-exsistant or somewhat 
 bothersome.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 9/10
  - Not any bug problems or stability problems. As many times as you might have heard it, the camera 
 really does get awkward with the dimension changes.
  
  Replay value: 8/10
  - I can keep comeing back to this game playing it time after time, I just have a real problem sitting 
 down playing it for long periods.
  
  Value for money: 6/10
  - Being the game is $50, I can't help but say that the price is only worth it for diehard-love-anything-mario 
 fans. I would be content paying $30-$40 but not 50, just because It's a new top of the line console 
 doesn't justify these expensive prices on all games for the certain platform.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - I would say 
 to certain people, definately yes. But to others it will only be remember for what it is.
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - Diehard-love-anything-mario fans. Great game, 
 but I'd have to list it under the rent it first category.
  
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 8 - Forget the Scissors and the 
 rock, its all about the PAPER! Definately a classic for some but, it certainly does get repetitive 
 and doesn't own up to other Mario games. This game seems really aimed at kids, but still plenty 
 enjoyable for all ages. Truely awkward camera angles when switching demensions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkFlareKin
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  Paper Mario 3's story mode is straight forward, just like the other 2. However, yo get to play 
 as more than Mario, you can play as Peach, Bowser, and a new character, Luigi, in your adventure. 
 The assist characters you obtain are Pixls. However, unlike the other two games, you can only go 
 forward, you cannot move up and down unless you get the flip effect. Also, you don't fight the 
 same way as in Paper Mario 1 and 2. You just walk around, encounter enemies, just jump on hem a 
 couple of times and beat them, however, you move around in the fight, not like in the last two 
 games where you just say jump or hammer and he does it. This time, there is no way you can dodge 
 your enemies attacks by being lucky, but same with your enemy. Another thing is the levels. Once 
 you put the pure hearts where they belong, the door to the level appears, in the same place as 
 the other ones (exept for the final door to the final level) . Making the challenge not that big 
 of a challenge. In Paper Mario 1 and 2, the entrance to the levels were in the towns somewhere, 
 but at least they were spread out. Getting to them is no challenge, unlike the first and second 
 games, which made them fun. Still, it is pretty fun to play, even though it is not the best of 
 the Paper Mario games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dabears55
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  Super paper mario is a big dissapointment. I've beaten the first two games in the series countless 
 times because they are my favorite games. This one got rid of the great battle system, it got rid 
 of any good partners, the story stunk, and the missions made no sense. The only reason that i'mnot 
 giving it a zero is that there are some bright points; the game is extremely colorful, the 3-d 
 aspect was intresting ( not polished enough) , and there were plenty of boss battles ( which a two 
 year old could have beaten) . Overall this is a huge dissapointment an i regret supporting the game 
 by buying it. I hope that they go back to the original formula that they used for the first two 
 games because those games were great and i miss them. PLEASE NINTENDO FIX PAPER  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alipeewee
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  Ok, so I'm nowhere near finishing the game yet, but I've seen enough to know that it's an intant 
 classic. SPM is a brilliantly balanced mix of RPG and classic arcade styles of gaming, with elements 
 from both working superbly together. The beginning was a little slow, with a lot of backstory to 
 fill in the gaps, and I was disappointed to find absolutely no voices to speed things up, apart 
 from an occaisional 'yes' from Mario, though that sounded more like a dog yipping. Once the game 
 properly started though, it was obvious that this was one of the best Mario games yet. The techniques 
 were simple to pick up, yet deciding how to best utilize them to get through the levels alive was 
 quite a bit trickier. This reminded me of another game I played recently: Tomb Raider: Legend. 
 Much like in SPM, the hero (ine) had plenty of skills that were a breeze to use, but using them 
 to stay alive was not easy! To conclude, let me just say, if you are struggling to choose between 
 Super Paper Mario and Super Mario: Galaxy, then this is the one for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  This paper mario takes a turn in this title, compared to the usual paper mario games. Usualy the 
 paper mario games are turn based RPG's with s twist, but this title is a action RPG. I for one usualy 
 prefer the action RPG's and it is a plessent surprise. It feels much more dynamic. The game realy 
 has some pacing issues though. The first chapter feels spot on, it wasn't too long and wasn't too 
 short, but the next chapter gets a little too long, but after that they get way too long and tedious, I 
 would have preferd the last few chapters to have been cut into two differn't chapters. And also 
 I found myself using mario 95% or the time, you have bowser, mario, peach, and luigi in your roster 
 and can switch between them seemlessly. But mario is just soo much better and you need him to go 
 all 3D. Which has to be the coolest thing in the game, like you will come to a wall that you can't 
 pass then bam you press the A button and you turn the screen to make it 3D. But while your playing 
 the game like this your depth-perseption go's away and it is hard to land of bad guys, even after 
 playing the game for over 50 hours I still find it hard to kill bad-guys in 3D. And I found the 
 story to be way way way WAY to talkitive, sometimes they will talk for up to 10 minutes at a time.
 
  
  good: I like the clean look to everything.
  Great personality
  Funny dialog.
  Perfect controls (when 2D)
  good, but not great controls (when 3D)
  Realy long and addictive 
 story.
  
  bad: to much talking.
  hard to control in 3D.
  pacing issues.
  mario is the only charecter you will use, unless you HAVE to play with one of the others.
  
 
  this is a realy great game, when it ended, i found myself wanting more, but I couldn't have realisticly 
 asked for a longer single-player, beccause i have spent proably around 56 hours on it. (thats pretty 
 long for a mario game) This game is one of those games that you want to show your friends just because 
 it's soooo cool when you flip to 3D. But the game has this weird feeling when you turn 3D, you feel 
 alone and kinda cold inside, due to it being sooo baren looking in 3D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kieranb2000
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  Note: I wrote this review a while ago so all the games in the first paragraph have been released 
 despite me saying they haven't xD
  
  Back when the Wii was released almost a year ago Nintendo canceled all of it's games in development 
 for the Gamecube and ported them to the Wii instead, with mixed reactions from gamers. Zelda TP 
 came out on both systems with both games being almost identical and it was met with generally favourable 
 reviews, the other ports have yet to be released and include Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn, a new Kirby 
 platformer running on the Melee engine (maybe switching to the Brawl engine?) and Donkey Kong: 
 Barrel Blast (or something else, it looks terrible so I forgot it's name. How professional of me 
 ^_^') . Also, Super Paper Mario which was recently released for the Wii (over here anyway  _ ) started 
 off as a Gamecube title. And it shows.
  
  For those of you new to the Paper Mario series here is a short explanation of the games; You are 
 Mario. You are made of Paper.
  The end. Well, not really. The first two were a couple of the deepest RPGs ever to grace a Nintendo 
 system and after the second it's hard to think how Nintendo could improve upon the series. I'm 
 pretty sure Super Paper Mario proves that they couldn't as it's worse in almost every way.
  Not to say it's a bad game, far from it, in fact it's one of the best games on the Wii as of typing 
 this review however if you have played the original Paper Mario games and loved them you probably 
 wont like this game as much as you could.
  
  Well lets start actually reviewing shall we? The gameplay first. Super Paper Mario isn't a turn 
 based RPG like the previous two games it's now a 2D/3D platformer but it still retains some of 
 the elements that made the first two so great, such as the crazy items and timing a button push 
 (or rather Wiimote Waggle) right after an attack to gain more points. In Paper Mario 2 - The Thousand 
 Year Door - these button presses created either combos or stylish moves depending on when they 
 were pressed, combos did what the name says allowing you to dish out another attack at times and 
 stylish moves which boosted your star power which allowed you to use special moves, in this game 
 it gives you combos and stylish moves at the same time. However now the points generated by stylish 
 moves no longer fuel special moves but add onto your Experience Points which in turn levels you 
 up. Leveling up is now almost entirely useless however, it may boost your attack power and your 
 health but you'll never really be at a point where you think "Gosh, I need to make Mario stronger" 
 although I'll admit there are times where you will attempt to level up just to gain the free full 
 health boost that it comes packed with. Next up are the items, gawd the items. Almost every item 
 has a gimmicky minigame which is used to determine how powerful it's effect is. This would have 
 been a good addition if it werent for the fact that all the minigames are so goddamn easy. If you 
 played TtYd you will know that some of the minigames required skill and split second timing to 
 get the strongest possible use of your item/special attack in this you'll be launching devistating 
 attacks from an item easier than actually attacking the enemy. One of the main draws of Super Paper 
 Mario is its "unique" - The PSP game Crush did it first - ability to switch from 2D to 3D at the 
 push of a button and it does indeed work well. When a bottomless pit which is too big to jump across 
 blocks you path you simply need to switch to 3D and find out that you can walk across the scenery 
 behind it or that there were some blocks that could only be seen from a 3D angle that allow you 
 to cross over safely. It's a very nice addition to the game that adds a nice twist to what would 
 have been just another run-of-the-mill 2D platformer.
  
  As a Gamecube game turned Wii game SPM was never going to impress in the graphics department. It 
 looks like TtYd only with smoother characters and areas but with the switch to full 2D that was 
 expected. The varied enviroments are beautiful though, especially the intro to each one which shows 
 you it being drawn in. From the colourful fields of the opening level to the artisticly beautiful 
 but annoying castle of the new villain "Count Bleck" the game never fails to amaze, it even has 
 a world made entirely of small squares as a throw back to the 8 bit platformers it owes it's roots 
 to. And then you push the A button. And it all goes wrong.... kinda. Pushing A activates the 3D 
 mode and while some levels retain their beauty in 3D others just end up looking like barren wastelands. 
 Also, the 3D camera has only one angle and so it's hard to tell what's coming up behind you when 
 you run towards it, similar to SaTSR only less frustrating. All in all it's a very pretty game 
 though.
  
  As I referenced above the main villain of this game is the vile Count Bleck who has a dastardly 
 plot to... force Peach and Bowser into marriage? That's not too bad right? I mean, Bowser clearly 
 loves Peach and I'm sure Peach could get used to him. But no, Peach and Bowser's union into holy 
 matremony is so terribley illogical and just plain wrong it creates the "Chaos Heart" an item so 
 powerful that it opens a rift that threatens to destroy every world in existence. Mario sets off 
 to destroy the Chaos Heart and stop Count Bleck with the aid of his new side-kick "Tippi" and some 
 familiar faces. Then there's Dimentio who seems to work for Count Bleck although he (?) aids Mario 
 and co. once or twice along their journey for his own reasons. There aren't many plot twists and 
 overall the story is a lot simpler than the previous games but personally I think the characters 
 are developed quite a bit better. Also, It has some of the funniest content of any game ever if 
 you are willing to sit and read it all. There's no voice acting just lots and lots of text O. o
 
  Oh, and where's Yoshi?
  
  Next up is Replay Value, this game has quite a lot of it. There are many hidden items such as recipes 
 and bonus cards that you will want to search for. Also, some of the levels are just fun to run 
 around in.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10 
  Pros: Great 3D puzzles, Solid 2D platforming
  Cons: Annoying Minigames for items, The game was better as an RPG, Space levels suck
  
  Graphics: 
 8/10
  Pros: Unique Paper style, Varied enviroments
  Cons: 3D sometimes looks ugly.
  
  Story: 8/10
  Pros: Great Character development, A few twists in the story, Highly Funny, Dimentio
 
  Cons: No Yoshi, The beginning makes little sense even if it is funny, Walls of text.
  
  Replay value: 9/10
  Pros: Lots of collectable cards and recipes.
  Cons: No other sidequests? 
 Where's the Job center thing from TtYd?
  
  Overall: 8/10
  
  It's a great game but not the best in the Paper Mario series, must have as a platformer not as 
 a Paper Mario game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: likesstuff
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is the next instalment in the paper mario games since The Thousand Year door. 
 It is a little different to its predeccessors though as it use a real time battle system rather 
 then a turn based one making it more of an action but still an RPG.
  
  The story may be a bit simple but its is still great and lengthy and will keep you engaged throughout 
 the whole game. The gameplay is the biggest difference though playing more like the original mario 
 games such as Super Mario World. It still has plenty of RPG elements though making it moer unique 
 than the other Mario games. The music may not be too crash hot but you may ignore it because you 
 will be so engaged in the gameplay. Not only do you also get different characters in the game, 
 but you also get these things called Pixls. Pixls float around by your side and help you on your 
 journey in various ways whether it be fighting enemies or getting past a puzzle/obstacle. The game 
 is also very funny just like its previous ones and will keep you laughing the whole way through.
 
  
  Overall this game is a must buy for all Wii owners and should be played right away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: V-Dunstan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 3:55 am PT
Review:  Contrary to the Review Deck I actually was disgusted by the return to an original mario platformer. 
 However this game really grew on me after a while and I ended up enjoying it if not more so than 
 just as much TTYD. Firstly, I think that the storyline is an overall improvement from TTYD it has 
 awesome characters ( you have to love Count Bleck) but is maybe slightly shorter. Everything about 
 this game is just so bloody funny, it has some amazing and extremely inventive script. It has gotten 
 rid of the repetitive battles and has gotten rid of all the backtracking. It also has a more intuitive 
 puzzle aspect with the 3-d flipping which in turn makes it quite clever in some situations. The 
 music is all-around quite nice, not great but it gets the job done. I find that other than these 
 things it is more or less the same game which in no way is a dis advantage and by all means is 
 an excellent game. Almost anyone who bought TTYD will buy this game. It appeals to most gamers, 
 those occasional exceptions may be the fact that game has a hell of a lot of script. Otherwise 
 you should be buying this game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeromeerome
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  This game drops the turn based RPG elements of previous games in the Paper Mario series for realtime 
 goomba stomping, turtle kicking action. This helps keep the pace fast and fun throughout the game. 
 The graphics are jaw droppingly beautiful for a 2D mario game. It makes you wish the classics were 
 retrofitted with this new art style. The main feature of this game is the ability to flip the 2D 
 side scrolling environment to 3D. This is necessary for avoiding certain enemies and lots of puzzle 
 solving and hidden passages. During your journey through the worlds you will be accompanied by 
 other friends in the Mario franchise like Luigi, Peach and Bowser. You can switch between these 
 characters after they join your party. Each has their own special ability which is necessary during 
 the various stages. Also along for the journey is your little fairylike Pixel friend. As you finish 
 a world you are granted with a new Pixel ability to help you continue your quest. This keeps the 
 gameplay fresh and fun for the duration of the game. Level design is unique for each world reminiscent 
 of the Mario 3 days. If you take your time collecting every item in the game and participating 
 in the many side quests in the towns you can easily get 30+ hours of gameplay. Much of this can 
 also be done after you finish the last boss in the game. Young gamers will enjoy this game for 
 the great graphics and not too difficult gameplay. Oldschool fans will enjoy the sense of nostalgia 
 they receive. This game is a must play for any Wii owner! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: persia316
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  I got this game hoping it was good but to my surprise it was great. Super Paper Mario takes you 
 back to what made Mario in the first place....2D. Well 2D & 3D. See you're paper Mario & you have 
 to rescue Princess Peach or Princess Todstool to all the old school Mario fans... lol. Anyway you 
 try to rescue Peach & you team up with Bowser. Paper Mario can go 3D but only the levels not him. 
 Its a fun idea & adds stratagy & depth in this title. Even if you look at this game & say it looks 
 easy you're be wrong cause you might stay in a place for a while. I was stuck for two days cause 
 I didn't find a way to the next floor in a level till I turned 3D & saw it there after. I love 
 how Mario has an RPG element to level up. Paper Mario is a fun game & simple to play for fans of 
 all ages. Try to pick it up if you can & you will be hooked on the fun factor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxbethxx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  A really enjoyable game. The graphics and colours are amazing.
  Its similar to the classic mario games so it all looks familiar, you can't have to much of a good 
 thing.
  It took me 53 hours to complete it after completing the trials, so well worth the 30+ it cost 
 to buy it. I liked that you could play as all four characters and you didn't have the remaining 
 three following you and getting in your way.
  3D was a bit of a nightmare because it ran out too quickly if you didn't have the dashell pixel 
 and the camera only faced one way.
  The music got annoying after a while, the retro music from previous mario games was rarely used.
 
  The 2D flippy thing used in the first level to get across large gaps was a waste of time, it took 
 too long.
  The idea of pixels was great, although some were used more than others, would have liked more things 
 to do eg: piccolo, thudley and thoreau. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musicisamazing
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  This game was a huge disappointment to me. Since I really enjoyed The Thousand Year Door, the previous 
 Paper Mario game, I was excited to get this one, but it was a big let-down. The turned-based battle 
 style has been eliminated in favor of simply jumping on most enemies like in old mario games. This 
 means that there is no longer any strategy involved in battling, even bosses are far too easy. 
 Also the 3-d environment from the previous game is gone. Instead, you normally play in a 2-d world, 
 but you can "flip" into a 3-d world for a limited amount of time, usually just to solve ridiculously 
 easy puzzles. The storyline is also much more linear, with fewer side-quests and almost nothing 
 to do outside of the main story. The game isn't horrible in itself, but if you have high expectations 
 because your a fan of the series, prepare to be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario2BM5
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is old school and just plain fun. It all starts out as Mario and Luigi getting a distress 
 call from toad about the princess getting captured and Mario asumed it was Bowser. As Maio and 
 Luigi get there Bowser says he didnt do but then they see a weird creature named Count Bleck who's 
 goal is to get Peach and Bowser to marry to make the chaos heart. Count Bleck gets the Chaos heart 
 and is now going to try to take over all of the different dimensions and sends Mario to a dimension 
 called flipside where he meets Tippi and Merlon (if you can remember correctly Merlon was the person 
 who gave your partners new moves with shine sprites in the thousand year old door) . The graphical 
 style of the game looks amazing. Everything feels so old school and you can relate a lot with this 
 game to previous nintendo games. There is a lot of text and when i say a lot i mean a lot!!! At 
 some points of the game you dont even wanna care any more because of the long conversations. As 
 you know this Paper Mario so you will see a lot of RPG elements like side quests and level ups 
 but how you face enemies is normal old school plattforming by stepping on eneimes. Though you do 
 have a attack points and your enemies of course have HP. You hold the Wii remote side ways like 
 the NES control. you can shake the Wii mote to use items or put them in the poisition as they ask 
 you to put. This game is awsome and would recommend it to old school fans and mario fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendoguy325
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is the third installment of the Paper Mario series; but this time around, he's 
 going on a stroll in a side-scrolling manner. Paper Mario moves from the turned-based fighting 
 to a  game Mario was once known for.
  The story in this installment of the Paper Mario series (and, indeed, any Mario series) starts 
 out as the weirdest and probably most gut-busting ever... but I can't tell in case you haven't played 
 the game. But the main drive is that a villain named Count Bleck, and like all video game villains, 
 he wants to destroy all worlds. To accomplish this, he created an object called the Chaos Heart, 
 which he used to open a giant black hole to suck in all worlds. To thwart Count Bleck's fiendish 
 plot, Mario sets out to collect seven Pure Hearts (alot like the Star Spirits and Crystal Stars 
 from Previous Paper Mario games) .
  Also like previous Paper Mario games, Mario doesn't travel alone. Along for the ride are little 
 characters calle Pixls, which give Mario special abilities and weapons when used. For instance, 
 one let's you use bombs, while another allows you to pick enemies up an toss them.
  Graphics and music pretty well made and polished. The music is naturally Mario, and the the characters 
 and levels look are smooth, clean, great to look at, especially since you will be stuck on some 
 levels for a while.
  Super Paper Mario is great experience. It's funny and crazy, and the new take on 2-D side-scrolling 
 makes memorable. Add hours of extra content, and you have a great game on your hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockerking9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazingly better than all the other Paper Mario games. The only other Paper Mario 
 game that comes close is th original Paper Mario which you should go out and buy right now if you 
 have a Nintendo sixty-four. By the slighest margin though in my opinion the 3 Paper Mario Games 
 have a tie for one. This Revolutionary Mario game is the first Mario game if I am correct the first 
 Mario game on the Wii Console. The fact that you take a break from battling Bowser (The evil Koopa 
 King) is a refreshing break and playing as Luigi is also a new update to the Paper Mario series 
 which makes it even more amazing. My favorite part is that you can just jump on your enemies like 
 in all the other Paper Mario games which helps you avoid going into battle every two minutes which 
 can get really annoying. And I hope this review helped you understand the true greatness of the 
 Paper Mario Trilogy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitman-2k8
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  [edit] Basic Play
  The player controls the characters by holding the Wii Remote sideways like an NES controller. [6] 
 With the Pixl Tippi or Tiptron, the player can also point to the screen with the remote to identify 
 features on the screen as well as hidden objects.
  
  Super Paper Mario, like other Paper Mario games, borrows both RPG and platforming elements in its 
 gameplay. A main hub city called "Flipside" provides a location for Mario and his party to talk 
 to residents, shop, and rest, as well as to open doorways to other worlds. There also exists a 
 mirror version of Flipside called "Flopside" that becomes available in the last half of the game 
 with improved items and shops. Unlike previous Paper Mario games, there is no turn-based fighting; 
 instead the player faces foes directly on screen as in a usual Mario platforming game, and through 
 experience gains and special items, the amount of damage dealt can be increased. The player also 
 must watch the party's health taken as damage from foes, though this can be restored with special 
 health items. The traditional scoring system used in most platforming games doubles as an experience 
 point system. [7] After jumping on an enemy, the player can shake the controller for extra points. 
 The player can also collect Catch Cards for all the major characters and enemies; possessing an 
 enemy card will double damage dealt for that enemy. The maximum Attack stat one can achieve is 
 confirmed to be 99 for Mario, Peach, and Luigi, and 198 for Bowser. The only possible way to achieve 
 this is by using many Attack Plus items, which are bought at the Flipside Arcade for 2,500 Flipside 
 Tokens each. Using anymore of these items after reaching the maximum Attack stat will result in 
 a +0 bonus in the Attack stat.
  
  Mario and his party also gain powers through creatures called "Pixls" within the game. These give 
 the current character an additional ability such as turning sideways to slip through cracks, hammering 
 down large blocks, or planting bombs to defeat foes. In addition to Mario, the player will eventually 
 control three other characters: Princess Peach, Luigi, and Bowser. Both the current character and 
 Pixl can be switched out at any time during the game. Note that there are times when certain characters 
 and Pixls are not available due to separation.
  
  
  The perspective and level design seems to change as the player switches from 2-D (top) to 3-D (bottom)
 
  [edit] Flipping
  While the concept of a "paper" Mario (existing in only two dimensions) still continues through 
 the game, a frequently used power obtained early in the game allows the player to "flip" Mario 
 into the third dimension at nearly any point in the game. When this occurs, the current 2D level 
 is rotated to become 3D in a third-person view; obstacles that may have blocked progress in 2D 
 can simply be walked around in 3D, or hidden blocks or enemies may become visible. There are also 
 numerous secrets to the 3D version of the level. The game takes account for players flipping into 
 3D in midair (where there was a solid platform for them to be on in 2D Mode) by allowing the player 
 to make a single jump in an attempt to hit solid ground. In the game, this is represented by Mario 
 flapping his arms about frantically and a speech balloon with the graphic for the "2" button presented 
 above Mario's head. Generally, Mario can only spend a short amount of time in this 3D form before 
 taking damage (normally 1 HP per time Mario exhausts his 3D mode gauge, the gauge refills instantly 
 when exhausted or is hit by an enemy and gradually while he is in 2D mode) , though some side-quests 
 eliminate this penalty.
  
  
  [edit] Game Layout
  There are total of 8 chapters in the game, all split into 4 sections, with both the second and 
 final sections culminating in a boss fight. For all but the last chapter, the goal is to collect 
 a "Pure Heart" which is then used somewhere in Flipside or Flopside to unlock the door to the next 
 chapter. Save points are located strategically throughout Flipside and through and between sections; 
 if the character's health points drop to 0, the player must restart at the last save point, though 
 the player can escape to Flipside at nearly any point in the game, at the cost of having to restart 
 the entire unfinished chapter when they return. The player can, however, return to any section 
 of a finished chapter.
  
  Additional side quests also can be performed once the player can access these areas through the 
 use of the Pixls and new characters. Two quests, the Pit of 100 Trials in both Flipside and Flopside, 
 yield rewards that are very worthwhile: a secret Pixl companion and the ability to flip to 3D for 
 an unlimited amount of time. There is also a series of maps sold by a man in underground Flopside 
 that leads to various treasures.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve343400
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is immersive with its rich text and its changing storyline, it is a very good 
 game for kids and adults alike. It has a very simplistic control scheme and is relatively easy 
 to control. Although some parts of the game may be very repetitive or long, this is a very fun 
 and immersive game that will keep you on your toes. The plot starts out simple and straight forward, 
 but you soon start seeing conflict and connections with characters you thought were lacking in 
 a greater potential. The game becomes revolutionary to the Paper Mario series as its dimensional 
 flipping comes into play. Nintendo got rid of the battle sequence, which is probably for the better, 
 with faster and more changing gameplay, this game is a blast. It really brings a new perspective 
 to mind when playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 26, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Nowadays, the words "Paper Mario" seem to have become synonymous with humorous, innovative console 
 RPGs. And do gamers really have any reason not to feel this way? The original Paper Mario, released 
 for the N64, was met with critical acclaim and gave the RPG genre a bit of a facelift. The sequel 
 on the GameCube, subtitled The Thousand Year Door, was even better, offering 'Cube owners more 
 of what they wanted. And now, we get a third iteration: Super Paper Mario for the Wii.
  
  Super Paper Mario scores one major success in that it retains the brilliant, unforgettable brand 
 of humor brought about by the first two Paper Mario games. And as with past iterations of the popular 
 series, there's a surprisingly well-written and developed plot to be found in Super Paper Mario. 
 Yes, Bowser does make an appearance, but he's not the game's final boss -- nor is he even really 
 that much of an antagonist.
  
  Instead, Super Paper Mario chronicles the misdeeds of the evil and enigmatic Count Bleck. Having 
 obtained the mysterious tome called the Dark Prognosticus, the Count plans to take over the world 
 (some things just never change) . The story low-key and mysterious, and you gradually find out more 
 bits and pieces of what exactly is going on as you progress further and further into the game.
 
  
  The story is, to go out on a limb, epic. Yes, I know that may sound out of place when discussing 
 the plot of a Mario game. But don't confuse the word epic with something like the word "serious", 
 because that's definitely not the case. In fact, Super Paper Mario is one of the most hilarious 
 games I've ever played, offering up some really sound, laugh-out-loud dialogue. Characters are 
 numerous and surprisingly well-written; the script-writers in charge of this game deserve a pat 
 on the back for a job tremendously well-done.
  
  Graphically, Super Paper Mario is hard to really analyze. Put simply, you're either going to love 
 the visuals of this title or hate them. And if I had to take I guess, I'd say you'll probably love 
 them. If you're looking for something realistic-looking, however, you'd best look somewhere else. 
 Of course, Mario games in general have never been realistic (is it even possible? I don't think 
 so) , but that doesn't mean that they don't look nice.
  
  On the contrary, the graphics in Super Paper Mario are brilliant looking. They're colorful and 
 exceedingly vibrant, and are just fun to look at. Interestingly, though, there are no cutscenes 
 at all -- not an anomaly for a Mario game, but considering the great visual style, it's a pity 
 that the storytelling all unfolds through hefty dialogue boxes. Still, though, if you're looking 
 for some colorful, fun, cute-ish graphics in a game, then you'll get along quite nicely with Super 
 Paper Mario.
  
  Where the game begins to stumble a bit, however, is with the gameplay. Don't get me wrong: It's 
 still an enjoyable gaming experience, but I just don't think it lives up to the charm and immersion 
 that the first two managed to pull off. Firstly, if you were hoping that Paper Mario would be revolutionized 
 with motion-sensitive Wii remote controls, you'll be disappointed. For the most part, anyway.
 
  
  Because actually, there is a little bit of motion control in this game, though it's likely not 
 what some gamers were looking for. There's a little bit of pointing action that you'll need to 
 take advantage of to progress through the game. Still, though, it comes in infrequently and is 
 a bit underwhelming. Other instances are either entirely unnecessary or feel really tacked on. 
 For example, to perform a "special attack" and generate a bit more damage, you can shake the controller 
 around right after you've attacked an enemy. Also, to throw off status conditions (for example, 
 poison or freeze) you've got to shake the controller around.
  
  But before I get too much further, it's important to know that the gameplay mechanic implemented 
 by Super Paper Mario is significantly different from that of The Thousand Year Door. While the 
 latter was pretty clearly an RPG with some platforming elements, the former is clearly the reverse. 
 It's a platformer through and through, with some innovations thrown in and a loose role-playing 
 backdrop.
  
  Let me explain. Like I said, Super Paper Mario is primarily a regular old 2D platformer. Enemies 
 trundle around on their predetermined routes, and simply jumping on them is enough to take out 
 the majority of baddies that get in your way. Of course, sometimes you may have to resort to more 
 extreme courses of actionbut more on that later. In addition to these standard platforming elements, 
 however, there's also a bit of "RPG-ness" added in, which certainly makes things more interesting.
 
  
  The control scheme is really quite simple and straightforward. For me personally, it was actually 
 one of the more disappointing aspects of the game. Rather than attaching the Nunchuk and using 
 it to control Mario while using the Remote to perform a variety of actions, the Remote is all that's 
 needed. You play with it on its side, using the D-pad to control Mario and the 1 and 2 buttons 
 to jump and deploy partner actions, respectively.
  
  What's really disappointing about this, though, is that it's really nothing that couldn't easily 
 be done on the GameCube. After all, this was a title originally scheduled for release on the GameCube, 
 and it definitely shows. While the game is undenialby entertaining and ultimately a "good" game, 
 the Wii controls feel tacked on and for the most part, gimmicky and uninspired.
  
  One of the coolest aspects overall of Super Paper Mario is the partner system, although it certainly 
 isn't what it used to be. Rather than taking along with you Goombas, Kooopas, and other such partners, 
 your companions are a bunch of seemingly-uninteresting items called Pixls. Character development 
 is rather weak for them, which is a disappointment, but they make up for it with what exactly they 
 can do. They each have a special ability which can be taken advantage of for a variety of uses.
 
  
  There are actually a number of Pixls throughout the game, though they're usually rather well-hidden; 
 you're going to have to poke around to find them. Some of them can be used to dispatch enemies, 
 which is sometimes helpful. However, the reason that every one of them is useful -- nay, critical 
 -- is because there are a crapload of puzzles in Super Paper Mario. Each and every Pixl has a different 
 ability (some examples: exploding oneself, granting Mario the ability to pick up items, and the 
 like) , and you're going to have to utilize each Pixl's ability well to progress your way through 
 the game.
  
  Actually, it's this area where Super Paper Mario falls into a bit of troubleYes, there are tons 
 of puzzles throughout the game. And yes, they're (nearly) all very well designed. The problem is 
 that they're disappointingly easy. Puzzles are rarely, if ever, that mind-bending; most can be 
 overcome within a matter of a few minutes. Defeating enemies is equally effortless. Overall, as 
 is the rather disappointing trend these days, Super Paper Mario just yields its secrets all too 
 easily; an increased difficulty level would have made this game even better.
  
  Most enemies can be taken out with relative ease, using only Mario's inherent jumping abilities. 
 It's a pity that the Pixls aren't put to more fighting use, but there's one specific area of play 
 where they do play a rather large role: boss fights. They're not only downright funny in Super 
 Paper Mario (game reference: Control Alt Delete!) , but they really do challenge you to think creatively 
 as you attempt to take out these baddies that stand in your way.
  
  Overall, though, the fact remains that the title manages to stay fun and entertaining. It offers 
 a good amount of play time, with a variety of levels and around 20 hours of game time. There are 
 also some side quests that any completionists out there will want to complete. Sadly, though, there's 
 little reason to play through the title a second time; you'll get all you can out of it the first 
 playthrough. Also, it's unfortunate, but gameplay tends to get a little flat toward the end of 
 the game.
  
  Ultimately, though, Super Paper Mario is worth a purchase. There are some noticeable flaws with 
 it, and it definitely seems geared toward casual gamers even more than the list title in the series. 
 Still, it's a fun, creative little title that can take care of your platforming/RPG fix on the 
 Nintendo Wii. If you're looking for a lighthearted game with a fun plot, some laugh-out-loud moments, 
 and clever gameplay, then try and pick up a copy of Super Paper Mario. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiifan001
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario opens the story with a very bizarre twist. Peach and Bowser are getting married. 
 The enemy Count Bleck takes Peach under his command. Then Luigi pops up and breaks off the wedding. 
 Count Bleck plans destroy all worlds by according to the book known as the Dark Prognosticus. However, 
 another book is written for the sole purpose to counter it, and became the Light Prognosticus. 
 Legend has it that 4 heroes will unite and retrieve the 8 Pure Hearts and open a realm to place 
 the pure hearts and restore peace and order in the universe. Of course Mario is one of these heroes. 
 
  
  With the help of a wizard named Merlin, you'll be guided to the worlds where the location of the 
 Pure Hearts are. Merlin even gives the ability to switch from 2d to 3d worlds, and this function 
 will help the dozens and dozens of innovative puzzles that are to come. Some routes, ? blocks and 
 other items are found only in the 3d dimension.
  
  You'll be united with 3 more heroes and several Pixls. Each hero and pixl has their own unique 
 abilities. One pixl lets you ground pound, one grabs and throws enemies, one serves as a bomb, 
 and one will even shrink you to the size of a speck. All these abilities combined with 2d and 3d 
 flipping has given Super Paper Mario extraordinary puzzle solving. If you ever get stuck, aim and 
 point with the Wiimote (the only control scheme is the Wiimote turned on its side) and the area 
 may give you a clue as to solve the puzzle, making the difficulty just right. The motion sensing 
 isn't used much. When you do use it, mostly on items and just aiming and pointing, it's accurate. 
 The D-pad works overall pretty well. 
  
  
  
  These different worlds are also imaginative. The one that sticks out in my mind is the "Whoa Zone" 
 in which gravity and flipping are intertwined resulting in a masterpiece. You'll be in outer space, 
 "Underwhere" and "Overthere", underwater, and even in a mine. The flippin of dimensions is never 
 dull as they always bring new ideas to the game. Outside of the switching 2d to 3d, the gameplay 
 is generally the same and is what you would expect to see from other Paper Mario games. 
  
  Paper graphics give the game a nice visual effect. The 2d to 3d graphics also give it a unique 
 perspective. The graphics don't provide much detail, and occasionally seem to be somewhat incomplete. 
 The 8th world is literally nothing but pitch black and white border lines with enemies that have 
 colors.
  
  The sound effects are appropriate to each hit and piece that makes the game. There is no voice 
 acting aside from the occasional short Mario phrases. Everything else is written in text. There 
 is a LOT of texting, more than the game could ever possibly need. It is a funny game, some good 
 humor you'll encounter once in a while, but some of it is completely pointless and just time consuming.
 
  
  At the end of each world, you'll have a boss battle. The boss battles aren't good and could easily 
 have come up with something more inventive, and more challenging approaches. Worse, you'll fight 
 some bosses 2-3 times throughout with only a slight twist that doesn't make it much more of a challenge 
 than it was last time. Another big problem is the pacing issues. Some worlds take much longer and 
 is merely fill in. Sometimes (especially 6th world) is repetitive as in one point you go in literally 
 the same procedure 15 times or so. 
  
  Super Paper Mario's main quest takes about 16-18 hours. Additional replay value includes the "Pit 
 of 100 Trials", some mini games, a couple side quests, and recipe making. Overall, Mario fans, 
 RPG fans, and anyone up for some fantastic puzzle solving should definitely pick up this game.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOLhahaDEAD
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  The highly acclaimed Paper Mario series has been praised for its artistic and creative innovations. 
 The first two games were unique in the fact that they were role-playing games, but fused with some 
 light platforming elements of traditional Mario titles. Super Paper Mario takes it one step further 
 by being predominantly platforming, with a few features taken from RPGs.
  
  The most notable highlight of the Paper Mario games is that almost every tangible object is paper 
 thin, hence the title. In the first two games, the player could move in a 3D space in almost all 
 directions. This time around, you can only move left and right, in a side scrolling fashion, similar 
 to the 2D Mario games. The major innovation this time around is the ability to flip the world 90 
 degrees into a full 3D view, allowing you to find hidden enemies, treasures, and switches.
  
  The town of Flipside acts as your main hub throughout the game. You'll come here in between 
 chapters to rest, stock up on items, progress the story, or fulfill side quests. There are eight 
 chapters in all, with four sub chapters in each, adding up to a total of thirty-two playable sections 
 of the game. Each one will have you defeating enemies, finding pathways, solving puzzles, talking 
 to townsfolk, and more. Each chapter is a new experience that fits in with the story nicely. Each 
 chapter takes place in a different setting, and they all have traits that will keep your attention 
 the entire time.
  
  The main gameplay systems consists of you as either Mario, Princess Peach, or a few other characters, 
 going through the level, doing all of the tasks set in front of you until you reach the end. There 
 are a few different ways to defeat enemies, such as using items, jumping on them, attacking them 
 with your partner character, among other methods. They don't just all die in one hit like in the 
 older Mario games, though. This is where the RPG elements come in. Mario and his party all have 
 hit points (HP) , as well as your foes. Every time you attack them, damage will be dealt. The amount 
 of HP taken from you or your foe shows above said character's head when they get hit. In the top 
 center of the screen, there is a counter of your "score." You get points for defeating enemies 
 and using stylish moves. When you achieve a certain number of points, your level goes up. This 
 increases you attack, defense, and HP.
  
  Every character you play as has their own unique ability. Mario can flip into 3D, Peach can float 
 long distances with her parasol, Bowser can breathe fire, etc. Replacing the partner characters 
 from the previous Paper Mario games are "Pixls." Exactly as it sounds, Pixls are pixilated creatures 
 that follow you around, and can help with puzzles and in combat with their abilities. 
  
  The game is controlled with the Wii Remote alone, but turned on its side, similar to the NES controller. 
 The 2 button makes you jump, the 1 button uses your partner character's ability, and the A button 
 is to use your own ability. Motion controls are kept to a minimum. You'll have to perform certain 
 gestures to use items, and shake the Wii Remote to perform stylish moves. After you jump on an 
 enemy, if you perform a chain of stylish moves you can earn extra points towards leveling up.
 
  
  The story is not particularly deep, but it is extremely interesting and fun to experience. Mario 
 and Luigi are sitting in their home when Toad arrives and tells the Mario Bros. That Princess Peach 
 and her castle are under attack. They find out that Peach, and Bowser of all people, have been 
 kidnapped by Count Bleck, an evil wizard trying to fulfill a prophecy written in an ancient book 
 called the Dark Prognosticus. Bleck has hypnotized Peach into marrying Bowser. The union of a pure 
 maiden, Peach, and an "evil" being, Bowser, will create a Chaos Heart, which Bleck hopes to obtain 
 the power of in order to have his malicious way. Overall, the story has a nice set of plot twists 
 to keep you entertained, but it is a bit slow moving.
  
  The actual writing of the plot is what really shines here. There's a lot of text, but it is a lot 
 of fun to read. Almost every line of dialogue is humorous in some way, like the older Paper Mario 
 games, but this one really pushes its comical limits to the top. You'll constantly find yourself 
 laughing and joking along with the characters. The writing and translation teams really did a wonderful 
 job with the script and every moment of it is pure fun.
  
  The entire package is brimming with a sick amount of fan service, and this really shows in the 
 stages and script. A lot of the levels are recreations of stages from the original Super Mario 
 Bros., and it's a lot of fun to see what they look like from a 3D perspective. In a section of 
 Chapter 3, many pieces of Nintendo memorabilia are visible on shelves and desks. Furthermore, the 
 script makes numerous allusions to other Mario and Paper Mario games.
  
  Visually, Super Paper Mario looks wonderful. On the technical side of the graphics, there really 
 isn't anything that couldn't have been done on the GameCube. The attention to artistic detail is 
 what really shows, though. Everything is richly colored; character designs are creative and bursting 
 with visual flavor, and many different features of levels will catch your eye. 
  
  The music is wonderful. There are tracks taken and remixed from previous Mario and Paper Mario 
 games, and the soundtrack is a lot of fun to listen to. For the most part, it's pretty upbeat and 
 very catchy. Unfortunately there isn't any voice work to speak of, but it's probably for the better 
 considering the nature of most of the characters.
  
  There are a ton of side quests to keep you busy once you finish the main quest. You can collect 
 all of the cards scattered throughout the world, create and find all of the food items and their 
 respective recipes, and play the mini games for coins. Also making a return from older Paper Mario 
 games is the infamous Pit of 100 Trials. It's a little different this time around, but the rewards 
 are just as great.
  
  Super Paper Mario should take upwards of about twenty hours to finish, not counting the numerous 
 side quests. It's not the best in series, but it is a very diverse, unique experience on the Wii 
 that just really shouldn't be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moosechild
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Hello, Moosechild here for the review on Super Paper Mario. I will divide this review into sections 
 game play, story, graphics, and creativity.
  
  First, lets start with game play. Now the gameplay as you may or may not have heard is a lot more 
 like one of the classic Super Mario plat formers and by that I mean there is no turn-based fighting 
 so the bosses are a lot easier than in the previous paper marios. in this game you can play as 
 Mario, Peach, and Bowser. now each character has their own specialty Mario can switch between the 
 2nd and 3rd dimension, Peach can float across crevices with her umbrella and hide under when under 
 attack, and Bowser can breathe fire you can also play as Luigi for a short period of time in this 
 game but all he does is jump really high. There is also many little fairies that you collect in 
 this game called pixls giving you powers such as ground pound, making you invisible, setting bombs, 
 and allowing you to float across spikes and water. Super Paper Mario also has a lot more clever 
 puzzles in this game then any other paper mario game or really any other mario game.
  
  The story in Super Paper Mario is really quite complex. it starts out as a peaceful morning at 
 the home of the Mario Bros. Mario & Luigi. Mario & Luigi decide to visit Princess Peach for they 
 have not seen her for a while. As they walk Toad runs into them and tells them the "shocking" news........ Princess 
 Peach has been kidnapped but Toad does not mention who so Mario & Luigi assume this is the work 
 of King Bowser. Once they arrive at Bowser's castle we here Bowser telling his minions how he planned 
 to kidnap Princess Peach and marry her. as soon as they arrive Luigi asks Bowser where the princess 
 was and what he did with her and Bowser explains that he was just about to go kidnap Peach. All 
 of a sudden a freakish man named Count Bleck pops out of no where in Bowser's castle with Princess 
 Peach and takes Bowser, his goonies, and Luigi. Now the reason this horrible man Count Bleck is 
 doing this is book the Dark Prognosticus says that the marriage of Princess Peach and Bowser will 
 cause a dimensional rift and will engulf the universe. Once everyone is taken away (except Mario) 
 Mario meets a butterfly shaped pixl named Tippi (a lot like Goombella and Goombario in the previous 
 games) who is here to help Mario on his quest to save the universe.
  
  Now the graphics per s aren't the greatest thing about this game. The graphics stay true to the 
 paper mario series but really the only problem with it is it keeps older gamers from playing a 
 great game just because of it's babyish graphics. When you go from 2D to 3D in this game maybe you 
 were expecting everything to become 3D like the enemies except there would be a lot more open space 
 and blocks would move around well only one thing wrong with that and that is (just about) every 
 enemy stays in there 2nd dimension so you can walk past them easily and they are practically invisible. 
 For example in one part of the game there is a huge line of Thwomps that come down in milliseconds
 
  (exaggerated) all you have to do is press A and walk right pass them in 3D mode.
  
  Some of the creativity in this game is pretty astonishing. for example the 3D mode I'm sure no 
 one had even imagined that before and it is a very unique part of the game. Also some of the puzzles 
 in this game are pretty creative they leave you very confused for hours and hours. The levels are 
 also very well constructed around the 2D to 3D perspectives. 
  
  
  Mooschild's overall rate
   Game Play: 10
   Story: 9.5
   Graphics: 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azurenotes
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2008 5:49 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario for the Wii introduces its funny and fresh new adventure in the form of playing 
 between 2-D and 3-D. Filled with action, adventure, and a humorous storyline, this is a game Wii 
 owners must have.
  
  With eight chapters each with four sections, four playable characters, and pixls to collect, what 
 else would one want? This game is highly addictive, with all its twists and turns, you'll see something 
 unique in every corner. It definitely is considered a really good game alongside many other Mario 
 games.
  
  Graphics in Super Paper Mario are very colorful. Most levels have interesting background and foreground 
 material. The music is also great as well, Nintendo did a good job creating songs that are cheery 
 and creative.
  
  Though, the game may have flaws, such as an awkward camera when flipping to 3-D or the lengthy 
 speeches people give in the game, but it isn't enough to bore players.
  
  Overall, Super Paper Mario is worth playing. It's a lengthy game that you could get addicted to. 
 There are a lot of side quests and many places to explore. I would suggest you play this game. 
 Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman1995
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  [edit] Basic Play
  The player controls the characters by holding the Wii Remote sideways like an NES controller. [6] 
 With the Pixl Tippi or Tiptron, the player can also point to the screen with the remote to identify 
 features on the screen as well as hidden objects.
  
  Super Paper Mario, like other Paper Mario games, borrows both RPG and platforming elements in its 
 gameplay. A main hub city called "Flipside" provides a location for Mario and his party to talk 
 to residents, shop, and rest, as well as to open doorways to other worlds. There also exists a 
 mirror version of Flipside called "Flopside" that becomes available in the last half of the game 
 with improved items and shops. Unlike previous Paper Mario games, there is no turn-based fighting; 
 instead the player faces foes directly on screen as in a usual Mario platforming game, and through 
 experience gains and special items, the amount of damage dealt can be increased. The player also 
 must watch the party's health taken as damage from foes, though this can be restored with special 
 health items. The traditional scoring system used in most platforming games doubles as an experience 
 point system. [7] After jumping on an enemy, the player can shake the controller for extra points. 
 The player can also collect Catch Cards for all the major characters and enemies; possessing an 
 enemy card will double damage dealt for that enemy.
  
  Mario and his party also gain powers through creatures called "Pixls" within the game. These give 
 the current character an additional ability such as turning sideways to slip through cracks, hammering 
 down large blocks, or planting bombs to defeat foes. In addition to Mario, the player will eventually 
 control three other characters: Princess Peach, Luigi, and Bowser. Both the current character and 
 Pixl can be switched out at any time during the game. Note that there are times when certain characters 
 and Pixls are not available due to separation.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Godofnerdyness
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Cute Graphics (Almost too cute) , Changing from a 3D world to a 2D world works very well, 
 Well written dialogue, Challenging Puzzles, Good Controls, Interesting Story.
  
  The Bad: Fans of the previous Paper Mario's will be disappointed to know the fighting isn't turn-based, 
 sometimes cutscenes may have too much text which will turn some people off.
  
  Super Paper Mario is Paper Mario's latest adventure exclusively on the Wii. In this adventure, 
 our friend Mario has to save the world from chaos and destruction by defeating the dastardly Count 
 Bleck, the game's antagonist, and collectiong 7 pure hearts. At the start of the game, it's just 
 him alone. Over time, he'll meet up with Peach, Luigi, even Bowser who are all playable characters. 
 Mario will also have some other sidekicks called Pixels, which are usually small fairy looking 
 creatures in different shapes. Mario can depend of these pixels to help him save the world, weather 
 he uses one to set a bomb, or to grab something from far away. One pixel who stands out is Tippi, 
 who actually has a lot of dialogue and plays a really big part in the story. Once you've started 
 the game and finished the intro, meeting a few faces, you'll be sent to the first world. The levels 
 are set into 4 chapters (EG World 1-3) , somewhat similar to the older games.
  
  Now, I'm sure a lot of people who pick this baby up played one of the first two Paper Mario's where 
 the fighting was turn-based. If you don't like change, you probably won't like this game. In this 
 game, you fight by jumping on top of enemies or hitting them with stuff like bombs and fire in 
 real time, no turn based. Some will praise this new gameplay style, others will weep. I personally 
 am happy they changed, because even though I didn't mind the turn-based fights in the first two, 
 I like this style better. Continuing on, you hold the Wiimote on it's side (No nunchuck of course) , 
 using the D-pad to walk and interact with things. It's simple and takes mere minutes to learn. 
 After killing some enemies by stomping their little heads, you may notice that you're stuck because 
 of a gigantic gap between one piece of land and another piece of land. Well, this is where the 
 A button comes in handy. Tap that sucker and Mario will enter himself into a 3-D world, where he 
 can walk around enemies, hills, gaps, find secret chests, pipes, missing people and a lot more. 
 There is a small time limit to being in 3-D so you can't use it for a very long time, but you'll 
 only need it for certain boss fights and short but sweet puzzles anyways. It may sound weird and 
 confusing, but trust me, it's easy to get used to.
  
  Each character you get has their own unique power (As well as Pixels as I mentioned earlier) , Mario 
 can enter 3-D, Peach can glide with her umbrella, Luigi can do a super jump, and Bowser can breathe 
 fire to hurt enemies and light torches. You'll need to make use of every character's powers throughout 
 the game if you plan to beat it. Switching characters is as simple as pressing the + button and 
 choosing who you want to be. The graphical style for this game is the same as the first two for 
 the most part, as well. The dialogue is well-written and humourous, it may even remind you of Phoenix 
 Wright in a way. But sometimes the cutscenes can take really long which may bore some people. There 
 are puzzles that will take some people ages to figure out if they don't use some sort of guide, 
 not Zelda hard but still hard enough.
  
  Overall, Super Paper Mario is a game that will please most Mario fans and may even remind you of 
 the old-school Mario games. You'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll love this game if you give it a try. 
 I'm giving it a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8bit7055
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  Now, Paper Mario has to be the least expected game for the N64 in 1999, and weirdly, it was a great 
 seller, and the sequel for the Nintendo Gamecube was and even BETTER seller. So the unusualness 
 was brought back in April of 2007. Super Paper Mario was even better now than it was before, however 
 a little boring when there's nothing to do. No, don't get me wrong... it's really fun to play, 
 but just too long. The graphics and gameplay are great on the other hand; Being able to switch 
 from 2-D graphics to 3-D graphics are really interesting since they are usually the only way to 
 move on. The choice between Mario, Peach, Bowser, or Luigi (locked) is great character choice, 
 being able to go 8-bit when you get a blocky star is highly AWESOMEthe funny dialogue is highly 
 addicting, but when you're not doing cool, life-like awesome stuff, it gets pretty boring... and 
 let me tell you... that happens a LOT when I buy a game, that is NOT what I want to put up with, 
 that's my only beef, but... it's a BIG beef. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuiS-07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 1:12 am PT
Review:  Mario is back in a weird way this game has a side of comedy which really adds to the games rating 
 aswell as the all new and all old enemies the game also gives you the feature of playing with bowser, 
 peach, luigi AND mario IN THE SAME GAME!!! i give this game aa 8.5 only losing the 2.5 coz its 
 very difficult towards the end and i cant beat it it is a great game and brings the old and the 
 new tp war in this game
  
  with a touch of comedy, entertainment and old schoool mario its got a great score for me
  i highly 
 recommend this game because i was actually going to buy mario party 8 and didnt because i miss 
 classic 2d mario games mario is the bomb i think you should buy it or rent it
  
  waisting time and space now waisting time and space now waisting time and space now waisting time 
 and space now waisting time and space now waisting time and space now waisting time and space now 
 waisting time and space now waisting time and space now waisting time and space now waisting time 
 and space now waisting time and space now waisting time and space now waisting time and space now 
 waisting time and space now waisting time and space now waisting time and space now waisting time 
 and space now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riou7
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  When you start playing this game, maybe there's nothing special about this game. But if you keep 
 playing, you'll find something great about it. The story is about princess Peach who kidnaped by 
 count bleck. Not only you must save princess but also the world., you must collect the stars to 
 defeat count bleck, you can get the stars when you beat each chapter. 
  
  You begin the game with Mario, but later you can play with Peach, Bowser and Luigi. All of them 
 have special ability. Mario is the only character able to switch between second and third dimention, 
 Peach can float with her umbrella, Bowser can breath a fire at the enemy and Luigi can do a super 
 jump. You must play them all in different situation to beat the game
  
  In this game you have a fairly called pixl which grant the party special power. There is many pixl 
 you can get and they have special power each other like bombs (bomber) , pick up objects and throw 
 them (thoreau) , turns mario into mini sized of himself (dottie) and many more.
  
  Super paper Mario is great, fun and highly addictive game. This is must have title game for wii 
 owner and Mario fans. You must have it now!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supuhpapuhmario
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  This is probably one of my favorite Mario game all time... It's so unique and its even different 
 from other games in its series! It has an RPG influence from it s previous games but it has fast 
 pace gameplay and has great puzzles: difficult and tricky but never so difficult that you'll give 
 up. There are so many features: Hundreds of items (some of which you can combine and make a COMPLETELY 
 NEW item) , many different enemies, and secret rooms and pixls. An awesome adventure with a great 
 storyline! Different from almost every Mario game!!! Bowser doesn't kidnap Peach... You actually 
 TEAM up with him and many other character to: (Slight spoiler warning)
  to get rid of the chaos heart!
  The papery graphics are awesome... a total unique, new experience... 
 Turn sideways to see a completely new world. The controls are equally unique... you hold the wii 
 remote on it's side. This is the kind of game that you would pass out on dinner for just to squeeze 
 in a couple of minutes. No multiplayer though, but I wouldn't see HOW that would work out...
  so... all in all... This is a TERRIFIC game and your Mario collection could never be complete without 
 this game.
  
  Replay value: Not too much since you've probably found out how to solve all the puzzles and where 
 everything is and how things work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rabbids_Rule
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  The Good:- Really funny - A long game - Fun boss battles - Great quests - This game is really long 
 - Great music - Flippin' around from 2D to 3D is alot of fun - 4 playable characters - 
  
  The Bad: - Pretty Hard - Alot of long cutscenes - Just needs a little extra something besides involving 
 puzzles -
  
  This a great RPG style game. It has a lengthy quest with lots of funny stuff. The graphics in this 
 game are pretty good looking but aren't amazing or anything. In this game you can play as Mario, 
 Peach, Bowser or Luigi, and each has a special ability that you will need to use in every level. 
 The controls are great and easy to get used to quick. All of the cutscenes in the game are just 
 downright hilarious, and can't go by without bursting out laughing!
  
  This is an overall great game, but this might not be the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harsadi
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 30, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  
  I can recommend this game to anyone who likes Mario or want to try something with a unique new 
 twist in gaming which is switching from 2D to 3D as a way to play the game. You will have to do 
 this many times during the game and it is fun and interesting to do this often as you will find 
 hidden items, avoid being hurt by an enemy or find hidden passages to progress the game. The characters 
 are all in 2D just like the previous Paper Mario games with the exception of a few and they all 
 live in the 2D world until Mario gets to flip into 3D. The inhabitants of the new world Mario is 
 in are uniquely designed created by squares, circles, triangles and etc. with really basic details 
 but still recognizable as characters. To me the developers didn't even have to have Mario to make 
 this a good game they could have created their own new main character for Nintendo with this type 
 of idea. 
  If the developers had input more new elements into the game it would have been the best in the 
 series, but no other things that could have been improved everything else is all good... well maybe 
 some voice acting wouldn't hurt the next time around. Go play Super Paper Mario. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: painter015k
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Paper Mario hits the Wii and with a bang! 2D and 3D have together to make this one of the best 
 games on the Wii. The dialogue in the game is a mix of both seriousness and pure comedy, so its 
 not hard to laugh at some of the lines in the game. Comedy aside, the story is well executed and 
 some of the scenes can get a little touching towards the game's end. Level structure provides plenty 
 of challenges, but there's a problem. The bosses are easier than they were in past Paper Mario 
 games. The RPG element is absent and that some bosses are way to easy. The graphics are completely 
 nailed and every single inch of it looks clean, even when in 3D. The background music is also pulled 
 off, from circus gone mad to epic battle, it's in there. For the most part, SPM is yet an another 
 awesome Paper Mario game. If you have a Wii and like Paper Mario, then is unique hybrid of a game 
 is something you shouldn't pass up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrMan2000
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 16, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  What is it with the Nintendo folks? On the one hand they're clever enough to come up with an innovative 
 console that allows development of games unlike any other. They create clever, fun games that allow 
 you to switch from 2d to 3d at a button's push. They developp Escher like gaming levels that boggle 
 the mind. 
  
  But somehow, they can't have voices or modern cut-scenes? Playing this game would give one insight 
 into how bi-polar-afflicted people experience life. 
  
  Clever gameplay? Check. Totally innovative puzzle solving that requires non-linear thing? Check. 
 Screen after screen of boring, text-based dialogue boxes? Check. 
  
  WHY do they insist on continuing to use 193 aproaches to 2007 games? Seriously... the game is very 
 good in many ways but I simply cannot get over all the text boxes. Sometimes feels like I'm reading 
 through a cheap B novelette. The gameplay deserves a 9.0 but the packaging requires me to drop 
 it to 7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garrison_Ford
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  *** SUPER PAPER MARIO ***
  
  THE GOOD
  -Great music
  -Cool leveling system
  -Awesome cast of characters
  -Tons of secrets and extras
  -Great boss battles
  -Awesome story
 
  -Solid controls
  -Fun side quests
  
  THE BAD
  -Annoying sound when text scrolls across the screen
  -Graphics are plain
  
  OVERVIEW
  Super 
 Paper Mario has 2D characters but plays in a 3D world which makes for a fun environment. The game 
 starts with you controlling Mario, as the main character, when the evil Count Bleck comes and basically 
 wants to destroy the world. Mario is brought to the town called Flipside by a Pixil named Tippi. 
 Now you may ask, "What the heck is a Pixil"? Well, during the game you will discover new Pixil's 
 that give your character special powers like Boomer who lets you plant a bomb or Tippi who lets 
 you point at the screen, with the remote, to uncover secret doors, treasures, etc... Anyways, Mario 
 and Tippi go on to meet the head of the town, Merlon. Merlon shows Mario the giant purple circle 
 in the sky and says that it is the work of Count Bleck. Mario also finds out the Peach, Bowser 
 and Luigi are all locked up in Count Bleck's castle. The only way to stop Count Bleck is to obtain 
 eight Pure Hearts which are located in vast worlds. The story in Super Paper Mario is awesome with 
 many plot twists and exciting developments that will pull you into the story.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Super Paper Mario is a 3D Platformer and action role playing game all rolled into one. 
 The leveling system is fun and easy to use. Every time you defeat an enemy or use an item you gain 
 experience points. Once you reach a certain level, you level up and either you health increase 
 or your attack power increases. Keep in mind that you share the same amount of health for every 
 character you have in your party. Throughout the story you'll encounter and re-encounter some of 
 Bleck's top minions. Each one of these fights will provide a good challenge for you which is a 
 nice touch to the game.
  
  The controls for Super Paper Mario are fun to use. You hold the Wii Remote sideways and use the 
 D-pad to move and buttons 1 and 2 to jump and use a Pixil's ability. There are also some items 
 in the game that utilize the motion control of the Wii Remote. There are four playable characters 
 in the game, Mario, Peach, Luigi, and Bowser each with unique abilities. Mario, by pressing the 
 A button, can flip between 2D to 3D. This ability lets you find secrets, hidden items, or avoid 
 difficult monsters. Peach carries a Parasol with her and can use it do glide through the air, by 
 holding down the jump button, and to guard her from projectiles. Luigi has always been a great 
 jumper and in this game he has a charged jump and lets him super jump to great heights. Bowser 
 has the ability to breathe fire on the enemies for a little extra damage than the other characters. 
 You'll find yourself using all of the characters for their individual traits. Pixils are little 
 helpers that grant the user their abilities. All of them are hidden throughout the game, except 
 Tippi, and some levels can't be completed unless you have the right Pixil. 
  
  There are plenty of extra things to do in the game. Along with purchasing items from the Flipside 
 and Flopside stores, you can cook up recipes with those items. By cooking up recipes you can make 
 your items stronger. Another very useful feature is the card system. Throughout the game you can 
 obtain cards of enemies which give you an added damage bonus when you attack them. There are also 
 treasure hunting maps you can buy and the added challenge of the Pit of 100 Trials. In the Pit 
 of 100 Trials you have to defeat enemies and work your way through 100 stages. There is one for 
 Flipside and one for Flopside. Each are extremely difficult but the rewards are great. So, if you 
 feel that the game is too easy then you have this extra feature to challenge you.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics for the game are plain. Although, the level design is pretty good.
  
 
  SOUND
  Unfortunately, there is no voice acting and that wouldn't be a bad thing but in this game the sound 
 that comes up when you are scrolling through text is very annoying. Other then that the rest of 
 the sound effects are decent but the music is awesome. Super Paper Mario has one of the better 
 sound tracks for a Wii game.
  
  CONCLUSION
  I really enjoyed this game. There is plenty of action along with a great story to keep your attention. 
 Super Paper Mario may look like a plain game but there is a lot of heart to this awesome action 
 RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slizzle12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 2:43 am PT
Review:  This game is very innovative and has everything you could ever want in a mario game. The game is 
 very funny and has great dialogue. It is quite a bit of reading which can make the game seem long 
 but it's worth it. Although it can get confusing on where to go sometimes it still is at a good 
 difficulty level. The ability to switch between characters is also a great feature and is needed 
 throughout the game. Collection of items keeps you on your feet during the whole game and leaves 
 you plenty to do. Boss fights are long and fun and really exciting to accomplish. Leveling up can 
 take a while but as long as you stick with it then it's just fine. Length of the game is also a 
 plus, not too short and not overly long. Overall it is one of the best mario games out there right 
 now besides super mario galaxy of course :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shawn_Watson
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 11, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  As much as I enjoyed Super Paper Mario, I just wasn't impressed by any part of it. It's a cute 
 Mario game (as they all are) but I never felt like I was really playing an RPG and the endless 
 dialogue bubbles really slow the game down.
  
  The levels are colorful and bright and look absolutely gorgeous. The music is pleasant enough but 
 the trademark Mario theme barely gets a mention. As for the gameplay, well... it's standard Mario 
 platform stuff with the new addition of flipping to 3D and some unique abilities with the Wii controller. 
 It's nothing to write home about.
  
  For 20 hours I stuck with this game and by the bitter end I felt like I could have used that time 
 to do something better. Honestly nothing in this game impresses and if I didn't have a photographic 
 memory I'd be completely forgetting about it in a week. If that makes any sense.
  
  So... very... very... slow. I don't like video games like this. If I wanted to read a book I'd read 
 one. In the end, it's the endless dialogue that cripples SPM.
  
  Pros:
  
  Very nice graphics.
  Incredibly cute.
  Easy to control.
  Giant Mario from NSMB returns (though 
 it's equally as brief and pointless)
  
  Cons:
  
  Cut-scenes take FOREVER!
  Way, way, waaaaaaay too much dialogue.
  Flipside missions are very boring.
  Gets tedious and 
 repetitive about halfway through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schwass
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 3:59 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is a great funny little game and if you have a Wii and want a few laugh, good 
 gameplay and an Italian plumber this is the game for you.
  
  The main thing that sets this game apart from the Gamecube Paper Mario apart from the story is 
 the ability for Mario to flip into 3D. Doing this allows you to find unlockables, side quests, 
 new levels and plenty of other goodies. 
  
  During the game you start of as Mario but will eventually pick up characters (Peach, Luigi and 
 Bowser) and this also works with the new addition of Pixls which a creatures that once unlocked 
 will follow you around allowing you to use them in your own way. 
  Some Pixls such as Boomer allow you to plant bombs, others grab thing or become paper thin so these 
 things make you think carefully about how to solve a partiicular puzzle.
  
  The story in SPM is good simply because its a wonderful change from a kidnapped princess and a 
 plumber having to save her. The story introduces Count Bleck who basically wants to rule all worlds, 
 basic and simple. 
  
  Some new enemies have been added to the game as well as the usual Goomba and Koopa. Some particularly 
 interesting boss fights have been added to the game increasing its enjoyment. 
  
  The fact that the game is on Wii doesn't really matter as use of tilting or shaking is only occasionally 
 used but playing with the controller on the side is easy to use and works well.
  
  
  Super Paper Mario is one of the best designed game I've ever seen. There is so much to do and you 
 can replay levels and turning 3D still find new things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lednight
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Do you love Paper Mario's style of RPG ? Do you love its' wit and in site Humor? And the rag tag 
 team of allies you get? 
  
  WELL THEN YOUR IN FOR A BIG CHANGE OF WHAT PAPER MARIO IS!
  
  SUPER PAPER MARIO 
  changes the formula of what it is and losses some steam along the way 
 for some players of the Paper Mario 
  
  THE STORY
  the thing i liked the most about Paper Mario is its story and humor and how it can make fun of 
 it's self while still being serious and luckily its still in tack as well one of the reasons i 
 wanted to buy the game was becuase of it's character's
  
  http://content. answers. com/main/content/wp/en/thumb/5/5a/180px-Mr. L. jpg
  
  WHO IS MISTER L? 
 THE SO CALLED GREEN THUNDER?
  
  I think the character's make this game what it is funny and fun to watch more over then to play 
 .... which i consider to be good as most RPG start to become stale after hours of the same blunt 
 attacks, but some how all the Mario's RPG help keep it alive too, and this "RPG" does the same 
 thing and then some the main reason i finished this game was because of the story!
  
  10/10 Remeberable characters and events make the game worth whiled!
  
  THE AUDIO
  Music is 
 always one of the best part of Mario Games and although it may not be as classic as Older Mario's 
 games. It still hits the ear with enjoyable music. Just not rememorable. 
  7/10
  
  TEH CONTROL
  I found myself amazed on how they wanted me to hold the WIi mote and how well it 
 flowed when i played. They are not hard to master and the only problem that i can find with it 
 is that it makes your palms sweaty (but that may be just me) . Of course for something to get outstanding 
 control it needs a bigger impression then turning the control side ways. But all in all they where 
 never confusing or hard to deal with.
  9/10
  
  THE DIFFERENCES 
  This is the things I miss in Paper Mario compared to Super Paper Mario
  -Badges
  -TURN-BASED 
 RPG
  - 3D like World for worlds 
  - Love able newcomer allies like Vivan or Bow 
  - side missions with Bowser and Peach
  
  Now that i'm done complaining of the fan boy/girl 
 type of stuff heres what I liked
  + love able villains 
  + leveling up is easier
  + get to use Luigi
  + Darker Mario Story
  ~ cool items that are kinda of useless
  + Love 
 Story in between chapters
  
  (varies from Person to Person / 10) 
  
  A Issue (THE TURN!)
  I think the main issue with Super Paper Mario is its lets mix RPG elements 
 and 2/3D platformer elements together. It just feels like it wants to be a RPG but its stuck in 
 a platformers world. And this to me makes the game some times not worth playing. It feels like 
 a college get not knowing what to major in or something of the like. all in all i think they should 
 just stick to the original formula becuase it works. I say it hinders the games fun factor, I some 
 times feel the need to just stop playing and do something else.
  
  THE FACTOR OF FUN?
  This game has a bit of growing pains attached to it so it may be unattractive to some but it brings 
 the fun of jumping on enemies and leveling yourself just like other Paper Mario games at the same 
 time. With some cool items and some 3D puzzle solving it can still make Mario's outing fun. But 
 the True fun of this game is its Story and thats what makes this Paper Mario
  7 (not so for everyone) / 10
  
  This is your reviewer saying thank you for reading and promises 
 not to sound like X play so much
  2nd review and a new set of errors (can you find them all?) 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flip13lolb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is the 3rd game in the Paper Mario series, from playing the past games it is 
 easy to tell this game is not the same as the rest. The first to were a turn-based strategy game 
 with an active battle system. They mixed it up a little bit because instead of a turn-based strategy 
 it was changed to a platformer with RPG elements. There is HP, items, leveling up, etc., and coins 
 instead of giving you 1-ups let you buy items. It is also much more puzzling as well. In this game 
 you will encounter many playable characters who all have there own abilities. Mario is the person 
 you will use the most because he has the ability to flip from 2D to 3D. Peach has her parasol (umbrella 
 for idiots) where she can duck under to protect herself from enemy attacks and glide farther as 
 well. Bowser can breathe fire by pressing down on the dpad and has twice the attack of normal characters. 
 Luigi can jump extremely high by pressing the down button on the dpad. Pixls are other character 
 that are used in the game they are more like items but they have mouths and can talk so... go figure. 
 The pixls do things like blowing up stuff, hitting things with hammers, go slim and when staying 
 still turn invisible, and even a sheild! The story is great! (NoSpoilers Though) . It has many parodies 
 from dating sims to Final Fantasy. You'll go through 8 worlds and have 4 levels in each, the game 
 is about 15-25 hours long. The graphics are great and it keeps the same atmosphere well from 2D 
 to 3D. This game gets 1 Thumbs up and is a great buy! 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  I finally have some time with my Wii right before Christmas, and the first thing I do is replay 
 Twilight Princess which eats up six AA batteries (I learned to love rechargeable batteries) . Christmas 
 comes and goes and Super Paper Mario falls into my collection. I was actually very excited about 
 this. It's one of the Wii games I have really been waiting for, and now that I have my Wii back... 
 well it gets played.
  First, the nice thing about Super Paper Mario (SPM) is it doesn't eat 6 AA batteries. It hardly 
 went through half of two, actually. This is, most likely, because of the different remote use. 
 Instead of constantly shaking the remote, connected to the nunchuck, and draining the life out 
 of the poor energizer bunny, the remote is held sideways as a very basic controller reminiscent 
 to the original layout of the original NES controller. There are but two action buttons, a directions, 
 a "pause" and "select" and the lovely Wii Home button for universal usage. The A button only gets 
 use during certain occasions such as mini games or when using Tippi to identify a hidden object. 
 The B button falls completely unused. This works out very well for the game, and the incorporation 
 of the Wii specific functions, gyros, and pointer really fit a well placed and subtle role. The 
 game is easy to control and not too overbearing to master.
  This leads to some way wacky easy game play. If you old enough, or have delved into Nintendo mods, 
 and you have mastered any of the first three Mario games, bouncing on enemies is like falling off 
 of a slippery log naked... well, it's easy. Unfortunately, there's not much challenge there. Most 
 enemies you come across will squish in one or two shots, others you have to wait out and bomb. 
 The thing is, eventually they all become one-shot enemies with pretty predictable moves. You might 
 find some horribly short boss fights because of this. Even though there are a few challenges tot 
 he combat (namely in the Flopside 100 Trials) you wont find it difficult to get through Count Blek 
 on your first try and maybe even within 15 hit points. The good news is, the challenge of combat 
 is not what this game is about.
  The game is about the story, and its rather hilarious. I actually LOLed a few times just while 
 watching the prologue. It's Mario humor, and some of it does require a bit f a background in the 
 genre and in the universe of gaming as well. The game pokes at itself as well as the player, making 
 a joke out of nerds who collect things (meanwhile one of your objectives is to collect cards) and 
 the lack of your mathematical skills due to way too much time in front of the television. It's 
 great.
  You'll eventually gain the powers of the four main characters- Mario, Luigi, Peach, and Bowser- 
 each with their own specific talents. Admittedly, you may not often use anyone other than Mario 
 simply because his 'flip' skill is the most important for puzzle solving, finding treasure, and 
 finishing levels. It may boil down to the utilization of the other three characters to light a 
 torch, jump a vast pit, or reach a high ledge. I used Bowser the most, next to Mario. He is a brawler 
 and can one shot just about anything. He makes the already easy boss fights seem even easier, so 
 once you get him it's important to keep this in mind, depending on how hard of a time you want.
 
  There are other characters that follow you around however. They're called Pixls. Each has a unique 
 job bombing or hammering or making you turn into a flee, and most are critical to finishing the 
 game. There are three or four that are completely optional and have powers that are good utility 
 powers, but nothing in comparison to the main group. I used Boomer, one of the main group, 90%of 
 the time. A Boomer/Bowser Combo is just plain deadly, and I finished one boss with the two in a 
 three-shot situation. 
  Which reminds me, Nintendo has some fetish with he number three. What's with that? Also hearts, 
 stars, and rainbows. I don't remember which Mario game is was when the emphasis turned away from 
 fire flowers, stars, and mushrooms and became hearts, stars, and rainbows. The hearts you collect 
 make up a rainbow. The stars you collect make up a rainbow. What the hell is with all the rainbows???? 
 Every Mario game in recent history has them!
  Ahem... the plot is a bit predictable, but I don't think this game was designed to play toward 
 a big mystery. It can get annoying, though, as sometimes the dialog seems to be written by a 12 
 year old. Given the genre, I can let that pass.
  Now, SPM combines the aspects of a classic console game with an RPG giving you hit points instead 
 of lives and allowing you to carry and create items. This is neat, but mostly unnecessary. As mentioned 
 before, you an collect cards (and the game makes fun of you for it) . collecting card, of the enemy, 
 is somewhat humorous and the collection allows you to gain a degree of power of your enemies. I 
 believe you gain one attack power for multiplied each number of cards of the enemy you collect, 
 so if you have 13 Goomba cards, your attack against a Goomba multiplies by 13. 13 might be an exaggeration. 
 Useful, yes, but in order to get these cards, all 256 of them or so, you either have to spend a 
 lot of money, at which your wallet maxes out at 999 making this process INFINETLY LONG, or spend 
 more money more so. While doing this, assumable, you are gaining levels and attack power and so 
 on making you ever stronger and decreasing the value of a x1 attack to a Goomba you rarely see 
 ever the more undesirable. The same goes for the recipes. You could spend a lot of time getting 
 all 96 variations, but really about the time you do that you can beat the game just based on all 
 the massive hit points you have, and even if you were a total dope and walked into everything that 
 could possibly hurt, you'd still have more than enough life left AND the normal items would get 
 you through your hard times just fine. I don't know what to think about the collecting part of 
 the game, but I'm sure I'm not the biggest fan int he world. 
  You allowed to have 10 items in your inventory at one time and in whatever combination you desire. 
 A smart idea is to carry around a few health shrooms, one or two revival shrooms, MAYBE one attack 
 increase item, and the rest ranged items like Fire Bursts ect. 10 items, however, is far too few, 
 and can lead to some frustration if you plan on taking a long trip through a world to capture cards 
 or find rifts. You see, the return pipe back to town is a one way trip... and it's not the most 
 fun thing to track back each time you run out of items through the same levels and enemies...
 
  This game is fun and light hearted. It ends, and doesn't. It seems you can keep playing after 
 its all over and test yourself against new challenges and the horrific idea of collecting every 
 card and recipe ever making you so UBER... with no one left to fight. But you'll always know how 
 UBER you are! I say, play an MMO if you want to become UBER and brag about it, but in the meantime, 
 pick up Super Paper Mario and have a good 30 hour experience that will make you laugh, cry, go 
 insane, and trip out on the most odd and wonderful art in a game to be seen in a long while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ska_dude101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Mario and his cast of friends have been making appearances in video games since I was a child. 
 While some such long-lasting franchises take huge liberties with their licenses that turn out some 
 rather bad games (*cough* Sonic *cough*) , Nintendo's poster boy Mario has been fortunate with all 
 of his departures from main games in his series. Paper Mario is best described as a spin-off Mario 
 game released for the N64. The Paper Mario series focused on old-school platforming action while 
 injecting a certain visual, comical, and RPG flair. Years later, we have Super Paper Mario for 
 Wii, the third game in the Paper Mario series.
  
  Super Paper Mario tells the story of Mario, Peach, Luigi, and Bowser as they try to save the universe 
 from an evil count, Count BLECK. The only way to stop Count Bleck is for the gang of four to collect 
 8 "pure hearts". That's essentially it.
  
  The game is hugely a 2D-platformer, in the vain of Super Mario World (SNES) , but also adds a few 
 interesting touches. The game is part RPG as well. The player is awarded points for doing everything 
 from defeating enemies to picking up power-ups. After accumulating enough points, the player will 
 level-up, giving either more HPs or raising their attack by 1. The player will also come across 
 benevolent creatures known as Pixls throughout the game. These creatures allow the player to float 
 on spikes, drop bombs, or wield a hammer at will. They are handy for combat, and necessary for 
 many of the puzzles in the game. Finally, this installment of Paper Mario introduces the power 
 of "flipping" into 3D. The 3D portion of the game is pretty neat, seeing as it takes perspective 
 into account. If a pipe is blocking your way in 2D, flip to 3D and you'll find a path. It's required 
 for some puzzles, or passing 2D enemies you don't care to tangle with. However, if Mario stays 
 in 3D too long he will begin to take damage. 3D mode occasionally brings about problems with the 
 camera, making jumps extra difficult, or making it just plain hard to see. While the earlier parts 
 of the game are quite enjoyable, the game runs into problems near the end with pacing. The developers 
 resort to throwing endless fetch-quests and mini-bosses at you. It gets tiresome and frustrating.
 
  
  The game controls just like Super Mario Bros. (NES) . You hold the Wii controller sideways and mimic 
 the old NES controller. There is some random Wii-mote integration as well.
  
  The art styles and music vary from Chapter to Chapter in the game, but they are all diverse and 
 enjoyable. The audio is somewhat disappointing, as it feels hollow. Mario and his friends only 
 let out the occasional humorous chirp, leaving lots of reading to you. The story is predictable 
 and cliche', but written with a great sense of humor. The randomness and fart-jokes makes it clear 
 that the game is geared towards the younger generation.
  
  Super Paper Mario is a fantastically funny platformer-RPG geared towards the youngians. However, 
 old-school platforming action and the familiar face of a mustachioed Italian plumber should bring 
 in some of the older crowds. A well-balanced game not terribly torn down by some poor pacing decisions 
 in the Third Act of the game, or by a sometimes sketchy camera. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingdomhartfan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  This game takes the hero plumber that we know and love on a new adventure while being aided by 
 Princess Peach, Bowser, and Luigi. The twist in the storyline is instead of Mario fighting Bowser 
 he must join forces with him to take down an enemy who goes by the name of Count Bleck. In the 
 beginning of the game Count Bleck takes everybody away except for Mario. Mario wakes up and appears 
 in a Town called Flipside. Here he meets a pixel by the name of Tippi who helps him get by certain 
 obstacles in the game. He also meets Merlin who tells him that he is the hero of the Light Prognosticus 
 which is a book that tells of a hero saving the Universe by collecting eight pure hearts. This 
 is the plot of the game.
  
  The powers of the characters are Tippi helps Mario find things like doors and ledges that are not 
 visible to the naked eye. Mario has the power of switching between 2-d and 3-d in order to finds 
 things like pipes to go down. Princess Peach has the power of using her parasol to float and reach 
 far away ledges. Bowser can flame enemies and burn wood to get to new areas. Last, and least, there's 
 Luigi who jumps high. That's all he can do that the others can't.
  
  On the adventure you go to different places and befriend lots of Pixels like Tippi who will aid 
 you in the adventure. You fight numerous baddies, some old and some new. The game is very straight 
 forward and it took me about 16 hours to complete it. I think younger people would enjoy it more, 
 but older people may enjoy it too because my father liked it and played it. It is yet another Mario 
 game that puts a spin in the plot. The thing I didn't like about the game was that there were no 
 voices. It all had to be read and it became tedious by the end of the game for me. The game was 
 also pretty easy to beat for me. The thing I liked the best was the plot at the end of the game, 
 but I don't want to spoil it for you. If you want to find out you will have to play the game yourself. 
 I believe the game overall was pretty good with just minor flaws. That's why I gave it a 7.5 out 
 of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xdude85
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  One of the best Mario games I've ever played, it definitely lived up to its potential, and it's 
 an excellent addition to the Paper Mario games.
  
  Plot: Princess Peach has once again been kidnapped. The heroes of the Mushroom Kingdom Mario and 
 Luigi just go on their instinct and head towards Bowser's castle. Once they arrive, Mario and Luigi 
 confront Bowser and demand they let Princess Peach go. Bowser however unaware of Peach's kidnapping 
 says it wasn't him. The real villain who turns out to be an evil sorcerer named Count Bleck, who 
 gets his powers from a book called The Dark Prognosticus suddenly appears before Mario, Luigi and 
 Bowser, showing them that he has Peach captive. Count Bleck uses his powers to kidnap Luigi, Bowser 
 and Bowser's army, leaving Mario behind and unconscious. Count Bleck's assistant Nastasia hypnotizes 
 Bowser and Peach to marry each other in a fake marriage that will fulfill an ancient prophecy in 
 the The Dark Prognosticus called The Chaos Heart. Luigi tries to stop the marriage but is unsuccessful, 
 and the Chaos Heart opens what's called "The Void." "The Void" is a rift in the universe, that 
 if it gets big enough, it will engulf the entire universe itself. Meanwhile, Mario finally wakes 
 up and is confronted by a fairy like creature called a Pixl. The Pixl tells Mario its name is Tippi, 
 and that he is the one that can stop "The Void" by collecting the eight Pure Hearts, that will 
 reverse the effects and save the universe. Mario must now venture into unknown worlds with the 
 help of Peach, Bowser, Luigi, and Tippi, find the Pure Hearts, and stop Count Bleck before he before 
 he wipes out all of existence.
  
  Game Play: Hold the Wii remote sideways in this game, to move Mario press either the left or right 
 button on the control pad, to make Mario crouch press down on the control pad. To make Mario jump 
 press the 2 button, press the A button to make Mario flip between 2D and 3D. To get hints from 
 Tippi, point the Wii remote at the screen and point it at something, then press A to view the hint 
 Tippi will give you.
  
  Graphics: Beautiful environments and levels for Mario to explore, Super Paper Mario does a great 
 job in balancing 2D and 3D graphics.
  
  Sound: Excellent music in every level you play, some of the best game music I've ever heard.
 
  
  Overall, Super paper Mario is a must have game if you own a Wii. With great game play, visuals, 
 and sound, Super Paper Mario is a game you'll never forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kablay
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  This game was my least anticipated sequel/spin off of the year. I knew it wasn't going to be the 
 same as Paper Mario 1 and 2, and it isn't. But it's still a good game and I enjoy playing it, which 
 surprised me. I still hope for a true Paper Mario 3, but this game will suffice for now.
  
  Graphics:
  They're not that great, but the art style is still cool. It's very angular and technical. 
 It's a little TOO papery. It just seems like the amount of effort put into it wasn't as great as 
 it should have been. It just kind of seems like I'm playing an old sidescroller half the time.
 
  
  Sound:
  The sound is more techno than the previous versions, and it fits with the art style. I love the 
 music that plays when you get a new Pixl (creatures that help you with certain things) , heh heh. 
 Overall the sound is pretty good, but not super special or anything. It's average.
  
  Gameplay:
  It's like a sidescroller crossed with an RPG. You jump on enemies, but they have HP 
 so you might have to jump on them more than once. And you also have ever changing HP and attack 
 power. You can also choose from different characters to play with who all have different skills. 
 Creatures called Pixls are also a factor in gameplay. They each have an ability that the present 
 character can use.
  The gameplay (and the entire game) feels like a stripped version of the regular Paper Mario. But 
 it's fun nonetheless. Albeit it's a little too easy. But it's kind of nice to have a game that's 
 just fun about which you don't have to stress.
  
  Replay Value:
  Medium. I might play this again, but I don't know. It'll be hard to go through it quickly since 
 you pretty much HAVE to level up to be able to advance (there are no badges or star power or special 
 attacks to rely on) . So it'll probably be the same a second time through.
  
  Tilt:
  I was really surprised and happy with this game. It definitely isn't anywhere near the greatness 
 of it's brethren, but it's a good spin-off. The cuteness and humor still wins me over, and it has 
 some cool puzzles. But it still feels like it could have been so much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rickysoinski1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is an overall excellent game. Super Paper Mario has great use of the Wii controller, 
 hilarious characters and enemies, amazing graphics, and has game play like the original Super Mario 
 Bros. on the Super Nintendo and has some RPG in it like the first Paper Mario does on the Gamecube. 
 It's basically two hit Mario games combined into one. I really enjoy flipping the screen to get 
 passed enemies and to find things you wouldn't see if you stayed in 2-D.
  
  In Super Paper Mario, you can play as Mario, Princess Peach, and Bowser. It helps a lot in this 
 game. All the levels are extremely unique. There is something hidden pretty much in almost every 
 level. Which isn't a bad thing. 
  
  The only thing that I didn't like about Super Paper Mario is the very long intro. I just wanted 
 to play the game and it just kept going on and on. Other than that, I didn't find anything wrong 
 with the game. I completely recommend that you go out and buy it next time your out. A must have 
 for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sahil29
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Great game, highly addictive and should be in a gamer's collection on the wii
  
  The jist of the game is easy to understand and anyone can pick it up in a matter of minutes. I 
 started it and could not turn my system off because of the addiction is brings to a gamer. The 
 remote must be held in a classic controller style and uses the A button and 1/2 buttons as well 
 but is very to understand and grasp the concept of this change. Do not let this bother you. The 
 game is still amazing
  
  The only criticism i have is that the cutscenes cannot be skipped and are really boring to sit 
 through and some are lengthy but should not be taken into account too much
  
  Other than that this is a superb game and should be purchased and i would reccomend to anyone. 
 When you think your stuck in 2D, you flip to 3D and bang... your on your way again... i really applaud 
 the creators for such a brilliantly crafted game and have outdone themselves yet again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gandalf5000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Ok so when i bought Super Paper Mario i had no idea what it was about, and had not played any previous 
 Paper Mario games before. I love Mario so i figured id give it a go, without doubting its quality. 
 I trust my gut and well, its usually right, this time was no different.
  
  Super Paper Mario is definitely a game for Mario fans and fans of causal games that don't require 
 constant button pushing and pouring your entire train of though and attention into the screen every 
 second of game play. Its fun, quirky, unpredictable, and most of all an awesome 1 player experience 
 thats a different take on not only 2-d games but Mario games in general.
  
  The story is something you would expect from a Mario game, but as you play you'll notice that it 
 gets slightly weirder and weirder until its to the point that your questioning the sobriety of 
 the game makers. I mean were they on mushrooms when they made this game? The end of the world is 
 coming soon, its up to you to join forces with 3 other life saving characters that this book predicts 
 will save the world. Later on you die but the game isent over, you go to game hell where all of 
 the game characters that die in games go. Its very weird and well, a freaking trip if you eat some 
 mushrooms and play through it. The end is very strong and concludes what you were trying to do 
 the entire time.
  
  One negative thing about this game is the need to constantly be reading reading reading reading 
 and uh, guess what? READING! you'll read and read for quite some time. But its not mindless rambling (well 
 not all of it) as most of the dialog is pretty funny and fun to read. One thing i am happy of this 
 Paper Mario game is they have done away with the whole turn based thing, now its just like classic 
 ol 2-d mario jumpin on baddies heads and running side to side.
  
  the whole switching from 2-d to 3-d thing is pretty awesome and gives a new perspective on how 
 you look at a level and shows how much thought went into this game.
  
  the controls are very easy and simple, very comfortable if you will as you feel you have total 
 control over your characters and the menus that you must navigate through to find items and look 
 at stuff. 
  
  the graphics are simple, retro but over all very nice and smooth. I would love to see some classic 
 SNES games re-done with these kind of graphics.
  
  over all this game is pretty awesome and has plenty of hidden items and fun stuff to do throughout. 
 Its a must for any Mario fan. Thats fo sho. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursemarkChris
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2007 5:56 am PT
Review:  The new boss is really cool . Its not just Bowser trying to take away Princess Peach, and get Mario 
 . There is a sort of like Phantom guy causing the trouble, and thats what really keeps me playin. 
 The story line is good to, and dont just have to play as Mario either. You can play as characters 
 like Bowser, Princess Peach, Luigi, and some other characters that I dont really care about. So 
 the many playable characters keep you playing even longer ! The boss fights are pretty cool to 
 fight ! Especailly since their made out of paper ! Theres one boss that really is fun to fight, 
 its like a giant paper dragon or something like that. So I give this game a 9 , because of the 
 game play, the story line, the man playable charactes, the new theme, and the crazy fun boss fights 
 !!! Thanks for listening , and remember whos the best gamer in the world, yeah thats rihgt its 
 me, Curse Mark Chris, the great !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dewey1991
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is one of those games that you pick up and play and when you stop you kind of 
 want to play it some more. It may seem kind of childish but that is who it is for. 
  
  In this quest of Mario, you are out to defeat the evil Count Bleck who is "destined" to destroy 
 all the worlds. The Count has a book called the dark Progontius which is a book that tells you 
 your destiny and how to fullfil it. The Count uses this book to get the Chaos heart which will 
 help destroy the worlds.
  
  Mario now has to go on an adventure to get 8 pure hearts to counter the chaos heart to stop the 
 chaos heart from destroying all the worlds.
  
  You go though many worlds that include: The "Wild West", The "Underworld", The "Heaven", The "Samari, 
 and The "Gorge.
  
  I would recommend the game to anyone who has a Wii that may be bored with it or Just like to play 
 Mario. Good Game for Kids and Adults. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkthemaniac
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 22, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  Paper Mario hit the N64 as an indirect sequel to Super Mario RPG, a game that is held dear in many 
 people's hearts. It's quirky take on the Mario universe and great gameplay made it an instant classic. 
 Then, The Thousand Year Door comes along and sticks true to its predecessor. Now, the first installment 
 on the Wii is a fun game, but doesn't seem like Paper Mario, and that's sure to upset alot of people.
 
  
  The story goes like this. Mario is hanging out, minding his own business until he's sucked into 
 this town called Flipside: the parallel between dimensions. He then learns that an evil villain, 
 named Count Bleck, is trying to consume the world. I may be leaving key points out since it's been 
 a while since I started the game, but thats the basic gist. You then have to find the 8 heart pieces 
 to create a powerful heart and destroy Count Bleck. 
  
  The story is fairly simple, but what makes the game's story so great is the characters. This game 
 shines as bieng one of the funniest games I've ever played. Characters such as O' Chunks, who always 
 talks about kachunking Mario, to Count Bleck, who says Bleck every few words, to the Pixels, who 
 can have a snappy wit as well, really liven up the story and hook you in.
  
  Other than that, the combat plays out fairly similar to the 2D Super Mario Bros. games, which is 
 where this game will lose some of its fans. It has RPG elements, but the other Paper Mario games 
 were turn-based, and the traditionalist RPG fans made its fanbase, and I doubt they're happy. Either 
 way, the combat is fun. Another element that goes into it is a level system. According to your 
 level, you will do a certain amount of damage to the enemy. Not every enemy dies in one hit. 
 
  
  The special abilities are fun to use, as well. Mario can flip between dimensions of 2D and 3D space, 
 peach can float with her parasol, Bowser breathes fire, and Luigi can jump really high. Excluding 
 Bowser, these are used to navigate the levels of the game, which are fun to progress through. Bowser's 
 is used for combat. The final element that was thrown into the mix was the use of Pixels. There 
 are different Pixels that do different things. One is used to give Mario the Butt Stomp ability, 
 while another makes Mario paper-thin so he can fit through small gaps. There are a variety of Pixels 
 to get and they will all help you in one way or another.
  
  The graphics are crisp and clean, and the music is fairly memorable, making this a fun game to 
 play through. Even though Paper Mario traditionalists may be lighting their torches and sharpening 
 their pitchforks on this one, those who have no qualms with the new direction of the game are sure 
 to have a blast playing through this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tantrumsberm
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  What an innovative and fun game! It's been a while since I last played a Mario game. After reading 
 other reviews for this game I decided to give the game shot. I'm glad I did. The dialogues are 
 funny and gamplay is addictive. The story is linear but there are side quests you can play to extend 
 the gameplay for a few hours. In addition, when you've completed an entire Chapter you can always 
 go back to look for items you may have missed the first time through. Some chapters have puzzles 
 that require a little bit of brain power to figure out but not to an extent where you get frustrated. 
 Just remember to talk to everyone. I love the idea of "flipping" from side scrolling to 3D and 
 the Pixls. Those guys at Nintendo are pretty darn creative. I'll admit that I did have some additional 
 motivation to complete this game because Super Mario Galaxy is under the Christmas tree and I had 
 to finish this one to play Galaxy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgentCH
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Late in the GameCube's lifetime, an interesting-looking Mario title was announced for the little 
 lunchbox console that combined the art style of Paper Mario with the platforming gameplay the plumber 
 is known for. It also had multiple playable characters that could be switched between, some screens 
 had a 3D view of the levels, and most interestingly, one screen showed Peach and Bowser getting 
 married!
  
  Anyway, it was too late in the Cube's life for it to be released for that system, so it was ported 
 over to the Wii.
  
  The game starts with  wait for it  Peach getting kidnapped again! What a shocker! But Bowser 
 isn't the culprit this time. In fact, he was kidnapped too! A devious villain from another dimension 
 called Count Bleck has taken the Koopa King and the Mushroom Princess and forced them into marriage. 
 There is a prophecy that the marriage of a powerful king and a pure-hearted princess will cause 
 a dimensional rift to open and engulf all worlds, and Bleck aims to make this happen. Mario is 
 brought into the other dimension and tasked with finding the Pure Hearts, which together would 
 negate the Chaos Heart that powers the rift and save the universe, according to a prophecy made 
 to counter the one Bleck's following.
  
  Like Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, this game's story takes some interesting turns as it 
 goes on, and the major characters have a surprising amount of depth for a Mario game. Super Paper 
 Mario may very well be one of the best-written games in the series.
  
  Now, I want to get this out of the way before I go further: When this game was first announced, 
 I saw many fans of the Paper Mario games throwing a big hissy fit and raving like sissy-marys over 
 the genre shift from RPG to platformer.
  
  It turns out they had nothing to worry about.
  
  Super Paper Mario is still full of RPG elements. There are still towns to visit, NPCs to talk 
 to, items to use on enemies, HP counts for you and enemies, and so on. Battling and game progression, 
 however, work like a platformer. Instead of turn-based battles, you can stomp enemies or kick Koopa 
 shells at them in real time to beat them, which is nice because you're more in control. You get 
 points for beating enemies like a platformer, and it serves as experience in an RPG, gaining levels 
 when you accumulate enough. The worlds are divided into start-and-finish levels, but there are 
 still puzzles to be solved to get through them like in previous Paper Mario titles. The platforming 
 and RPG mechanics have been superbly mixed together in a way that makes the game enjoyable for 
 fans of either genre.
  
  That's not to say the mix is totally without flaws, though. A big one is that you can do more damage 
 and in quicker succession than in other Paper Marios, and as a result, some boss battles can be 
 over with too soon. Additionally, the more powerful attacks can be done over and over without having 
 to spend any kind of mana, and it's easier to dodge enemy attacks when you're not forced to stand 
 there and take it.
  
  Mario is joined in his quest by Peach, Bowser, and Luigi, who are unlocked over the course of the 
 game. Each character has their own unique abilities needed to solve puzzles and get through levels. 
 Peach can float with her parasol, Bowser has fire breath, and Luigi can leap tall buildings in 
 a single bound. Mario, however, gets the inventive ability of changing the perspective to 3D at 
 the press of a button. Flip into 3D and a once obstructive pipe or wall of blocks can be easily 
 sidestepped. A dead end can hide a tunnel or doorway to continue. You can also find some neat secrets 
 by flipping, like hidden alcoves with coins or treasure. The character use is a little unbalanced, 
 though. The 3D flip is much more useful and needed than the others' abilities, not to mention Mario 
 is faster, a better jumper (except against Luigi) , and a smaller target, so he'll be getting much 
 more screen time than the other stars.
  
  You also get new moves from small fairy-like things called Pixls. They allow you to blow stuff 
 up with a bomb, swing a hammer, shrink, grab and throw stuff, and more. Like the playable characters, 
 they're found as you progress, and can be switched in when you need their powers, but they're more 
 like tools in a Zelda game, adding to what you can do and how you can fight, and making new areas 
 available. They're not as imbalanced as the characters, as the game will make sure you'll be switching 
 them fairly often.
  
  The gameplay was originally made for a traditional controller, and it hasn't changed in porting 
 it to the Wii. The remote is held sideways like an NES controller, but the remote's unique capabilities 
 haven't been left out. Pointing it at characters and enemies on the screen will get you information 
 on them, as well as reveal invisible doors or platforms. Shaking the controller after stomping 
 an enemy lets you strike a pose and get extra experience. Certain items and mini-games have you 
 tilt and shake the controller as well. It's not forced and in the way, nor does it feel tacked-on. 
 It just feels right.
  
  Like other Mario RPGs in the past few years, the writing is quite charming and amusing. There are 
 plenty of funny little references to Mario games past, for example, and one whole level repeatedly 
 has some fun with Internet nerd culture. However, the text meets the same problem as that of the 
 other Paper Marios: There's too much of it. There's a lot of story to take in, making for some 
 lengthy cutscenes, and even the NPC townsfolk can get chatty. The stuff they say is good, but you 
 just wish that they didn't have to drag it out so much.
  
  The graphics keep the simple-yet-charming cartoony visual style of the other Paper Marios. The 
 worlds are quite varied in looks, from the square trees and algebra-formula clouds of the first 
 world, to the retro world with scenery made of oversized pixels, to the prehistoric world with 
 Cubist cavemen. With the 3D flip, there are two ways to view each level, but it really looks better 
 in 2D. In 3D, the backdrops  trees, bushes, rocks, etc.  are flat and pushed into one side, while 
 the path itself is just wide, flat, and pretty empty. The puzzles using the 3D flip are well thought 
 out, but the actual look of it feels like a bit incomplete.
  
  Finally, the main quest is lengthy, but not Square-Enix RPG lengthy. Mario RPGs aren't exactly 
 known for being long to begin with, and the faster method of battling just speeds things up a little 
 more. It'll take around 20 hours to complete, but there are still plenty of sidequests to keep 
 you playing afterwards. There are maps leading to secret treasures, cards of the game's characters 
 to collect, the aforementioned mini-games, and a few bonus dungeons to extend the playing time.
 
  
  Whether you like platformers or RPGs, Super Paper Mario is well worth the purchase, with its great 
 writing, surreal yet beautiful worlds, and clever combination of two genres. It has a few flaws 
 that keep it from perfection, but it's still of the high quality that Nintendo's main mascot has 
 shown to be capable of time and time again, and highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mpmartin0
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 17, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  This has got to be the most terrific case of the Emperor's new clothes I have ever seen. After 
 reading a ton of fantastic reviews for this game I knew it would be a no-brainer that investing 
 in this game would make good use of my hard earned cash. What a joke!
  
  Instead of being able to dive right into the gameplay at the outset, you are instead forced to 
 read the longest, most obnoxious animated children's book ever written as the game attempts to 
 reveal its story. No spoken dialogue (except for the occasional exclamation of Oh! by one of the 
 good guys or Mwah-ha-ha-ha by one of the baddies) you are forced to read such amazingly awful dribble 
 without so much as the option to skip it!!! How utterly frustrating can they make this experience.
 
  
  Ok, finally, I can make Mario move left and right and jump, I have control. Oh, but, wait. I moved 
 into another cutscene where I have to listen, wait, no, I mean READ more stupid dialogue.
  
  You know what, I could keep going on and on about how bad this game is, but if you don't get 
 the point by now you never will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: W8I8Z
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  If your looking for a challenging game with an immerse set of characters and storyline then you 
 need to look elsewhere... However, if your looking for a fun and cheesy game that will make you 
 laugh and scratch your head at times... then Super Paper Mario is for you.
  
  The story pits Mario and his friends against the evil forces of Count Bleck. Bleck wants to use 
 the Chaos Heart to destroy all the worlds because he lost his true love many years ago. Mario must 
 find all 8 Pure Hearts in order to counter act Blecks plan. The level design is simple and easy. 
 Even though each chapter has its own quirks and puzzles, its nothing too difficult. The graphics 
 are cartoonish but it gives you the old school feeling of a Mario game. The game is also very short 
 as it is easily completed in less than 20 hours. Even with the 2 optional pits there really is 
 no challenge to the game and it's mostly cheesy lines and comments. Nintendo tries to throw some 
 humor in there but they fail... only good thing is that the failures actually make you laugh or 
 at least make you go... HUH?? 
  
  Like I said, this is not the RPG that your used to playing but it's actually a lot of fun and will 
 keep you busy for a few hours. The use of the different characters and Pixis makes some levels 
 very interesting. And each pixil you find will help you get through the chapters much more easier, 
 if used right. I felt it was fun and I wasnt dissapointed at all because it was just what I expected. 
 Plus it was 10 times better than the Gamecube's Thousand Year Door. For any Mario lover or RPG 
 player... give this a shot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angry_game_geek
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario displays good gameplay and alot of unlockables, however the game is short and 
 the obstacles are not as challenging as the rpg paper marios. the bosses are also quite easy and 
 deal little damage. the level up system is quite close to usless due to the difficulty of the levels. 
 the abblity to flip from 2-d to 3-d is cool and puts more challenge into the game. the ending is 
 very dissapointing because when tippi and count bleck dissapear the story just ends. most players 
 probably want to find out wat happend to them. its good, but not perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tripoldoor
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Paper Mario was Great. Thousand Year Door was Great. Super Paper Mario was average. I hate this 
 game so much because it was not as good as the others, its like the Phantom Menace of Paper Mario. 
 I mean, what if they made World of Warcraft a sidescroller, now would that be a good idea? First 
 of all, its only 20 hours long, now compare this to Thousand Year Door, short. Second of all, it 
 was too easy, really, most bosses can be killed in under 30 seconds and for some, all you have 
 to do is use bowser's fire and they wont be able to hit you back, including the final one. Now 
 for the story, it was actually pretty good and may trick you into liking the game, except that 
 THE PIXLS ONLY TALK TO YOU ONCE THROUGHOUT THE WHOLE GAME, how's that for character development. 
 Another problem is the music, terrible! They got a different composer for this game, and let me 
 tell you, this is some of the strangest music I've ever heard, it tries to sound like Paper Mario, 
 but fails. Finally, the replay value, well after you beat the game you get a 2 challenges, beat 
 100 samurai dudes or the Pit of a 100 Trials. The samurai dudes are pretty much the same old boring 
 thing after another. Now for the pit, its not bad, but after you beat it you get another pit to 
 clear, except you have to clear it twice. I don't know why, but after you beat it, the boss tells 
 you to beat it again before you can battle him, but it's the same enemies all over, its not harder 
 so what's the point? So yeah, this game sucks, but buy it anyway because you will enjoy it because 
 I am the only sane person on the internet and everyone else loves this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  The Good: 2D/3D flip mechanic is nothing short of brilliant; 2D visuals are vibrant and artistically 
 stunning; writing is very humorous; interesting blend of platforming and RPG elements; lengthy, 
 mostly engaging adventure.
  
  The Bad: There are several very dull spots; once it's flipped to 3D, the game looks pretty bland; 
 extra characters are only useful for occasional puzzles and boss fights; may have too much story 
 for some people; not much in the way of replay value.
  
  Super Paper Mario is different from the past two games in the series. For one, it is not an RPG. 
 Previous titles blended some platforming elements with the RPG design, but SPM does quite the opposite. 
 There's level-gaining and a deep, funny story, but it is primarily a platformer/adventure game. 
 This may not seem like much, as Mario has primarily been a platforming series, but the very unique 
 elements contained here make for a great experience.
  
  The key gimmick in Super Paper Mario is the ability to flip from 2D to 3D. Mario gains this ability 
 very early on in the game, and it opens up all kinds of puzzle possibilities. You have no idea 
 how often you forget about the ability when you're stuck - it's very clever in how it is implemented. 
 Gaps that seem impassable become as simple as walking along the side, large unbeatable enemies 
 become total pushovers... in short it's a very neat technique.
  
  Super Paper Mario started its life as a GameCube title. You wouldn't know it from this version, 
 however. Wii controls are used quite often. First off, the game is controlled with just the Wii 
 remote on its side, like an NES controller. Early on, you will get a butterfly-like partner that 
 gives you hints and helps solve puzzles when you point at the screen. Shaking the Wii remote while 
 jumping on an enemy will earn you more experience points. Best of all, the game supports 480p progressive 
 scan and 16x9 widescreen, meaning it looks quite excellent on big displays.
  
  In fact, the presentation in SPM is really quite good. Artistically, the 2D animation and level 
 design is very nice looking, with all kinds of unique flair to it and lots of vibrant color. The 
 only problem is that once you switch to 3D, the whole place seems mostly barren. More work should 
 have been done with the 3D sections to make it more interesting, instead of just vast open space. 
 Also, the music ranges from catchy to forgettable.
  
  Super Paper's biggest weakness, and the thing most keeping it from a 9, is that there are far too 
 many dull, pointless sections of the game. These include walking through blank, uneventful space 
 for several minutes, running on a hamster wheel for a LOOOOOONG time, or any of a number of tedious 
 tasks. These are pointless fillers for a game that's already fairly lengthy. They come off as annoying 
 and bland, rather than clever or funny.
  
  There are few sidequests in Super Paper Mario. They all involve finding optional Pixls, or the 
 little helpful sidekicks you earn throughout the game. Some of the necessary ones do things like 
 turn you sideways, act like a hammer, etc. The optional ones can be quite helpful, such as creating 
 a more powerful attack, making you run faster, and more. Overall, though, SPM doesn't create much 
 incentive to go back and play through again, or to play past the completion point.
  
  So in the end, Super Paper Mario is an intriguing, inventive platformer with its share of issues. 
 It is definitely worth any Wii owner's time to check it out, and it may be worth a purchase to 
 those who plan on spending a lot of time with it or have a lot of people who would like to play 
 it. It is very solid and fun, and in the end, that's what counts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario's name alone gives you a great definition of what this game is. First off, "Super" 
 is typically the first word in all of Mario's platforming adventures. It may come as no surprise 
 to learn then that most of this game is real-time platforming. The Paper Mario monicker still sticks 
 here, as there are elements of RPG in here, such as hit points, a party, inventory and plenty of 
 dialogue. A mashing of these two genres has now created an interesting and humorous game, that 
 is enjoyable as well as challenging. 
  
  The story revolves around two books, the Light and Dark Prognosticus, that fortell how all worlds 
 will end, as well as how a hero will rise above and save all worlds. The primary villain is a brand 
 new character, Count Bleck. Bleck is a dashing fellow whose scheme is to fulfill the Dark Prognosticus' 
 prophecy. His reasoning is at first unclear, but towards the end the character evolves inot one 
 of the most memorable this year.
  
  Along your journey, you'll meet up with varying Pixls. These Pixls as fairies of sorts which grant 
 your band abilities, from being very small, to bombing. Most of the Pixls are useful throughout 
 the game, but a few will be forgotten along the way, making them only really useful in the one 
 place you found them.
  
  Aside from the journey, like in most RPGs, there's a lot to do here. Wether it's the Pit of 100 
 Trials, or uncovering every Catch Card in the game, there's plenty of re-playability stuffed into 
 the game.
  
  In the end, Super Paper Mario ends up a full ream of delight from start to finish and will please 
 both newcomers and veterans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cambop123
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is a 2D and 3D platformer. It is a great game for 2D and 3D in one. It is from 
 Intelligent Systems and Nintendo.
  
  The gameplay is quite interesting because you hold the wii remote on its side and use it like a 
 normal controller. You press 2 to jump and the arrows to move. It is fun going through each level 
 because if you get stuck in 2D you just flip to 3D with the A button and you then have to get out 
 before the timer finishes otherwise you lose a HP. You also have pixls which are these small helpers 
 that fly next to you. They each have special skills that help you during the game like tippi which 
 helps you see invisible things that you cant normally see. 
  
  The graphics are actually good. It is pretty much always in bright colours except for the last 
 level. There arent really any negatives about the graphics. The graphics are good throughout the 
 game and looks like a mario game which isnt a bad thing.
  
  The sound is enjoyable for a mario game which normally gets pretty annoying after a long time on 
 one part. The sound goes well in mostly all situations. It is good when you jump because the sounds 
 are very mario style.
  
  It is quite a good game overall with the 3D mode in it. It lasts a while. Would recommend but there 
 are better games than it to play as it gets a bit boring over a while playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fleshandblood10
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  Get past the frankly to long and rather boring opening video and you are suddenly playing a very 
 addictive, well thought through game.
  
  This is a game i enjoy a lot. One nice thing is to have a Mario game that doesn't revolve around 
 the rescue of Princess Peach. The story isn't in itself amazing, its rather predictable in fact. 
 however its got a nice feel about it. The animation is a lot of fun. in 2d the characters are very 
 cute, and its a nice return to see mario in 2d. 
  
  The gameplay is amazing. it only uses the features of the wii motion abilities subtly however it 
 does incorporate them well. The main new feature of this game however is the 3d element. Flipping 
 to 3d when your stuck brings (quite literally) a new level to this game. it stands out from other 
 Mario games in this way also, and the levels are all engaging and fun, if sometimes tedious also. 
 (for example having to spend 10 mins of the game jumping up and down and then running in a hamster 
 ball earning money to pay back someone) .
  
  I should also say that this game is cute. Because it is. its funny and its a nice twist to have 
 a game that doesn't take itself too seriously these days. the way it explains the buttons to press 
 is one example of this. 
  
  Its nice to be able to play as the Princess, Bowser and Luigie as well, and each of whom have abilities 
 that are needed at various points of the game. the pixles are also very interesting, and there 
 are a nice amount of them to, giving Mario and his friends a lot of options.
  
  The RPG element to the game is a bit slow, but it is a nice feature, leveling up isn't easy but 
 it is rewarding.
  
  There are obviously draw backs to the game. sometimes it is just hard to actually find what to 
 do. and talking to everyone in the town doesn't often help much. The side quests are all a bit 
 dull, and the searches for the heart pillers can be a struggle. 
  
  Overall i recommend this game to anyone who wants a good, fun, long adventure on the Wii. It doesn't 
 need graphics or bloody action to sell, its what a game is suppost to be. fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonah-ocean
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  Super paper mario is all in all a solid game, but I found it to get more and more boring as I went 
 through it. I miss the turn based combat from the other paper marios as this one is an action rpg. 
 The flip option is awesome at the start but again, as it progresses it becomes a hassle. This game 
 has witty humor in it I found almost too sinicle to be in a kids game but I enjoyed it. The pixles 
 which are little fairies that can use their special abilities, are a deffinate plus to this game, 
 but i think lack of items and other things that would make it more interesting, drag the game into 
 a repedative cycle.
  
  I like the graphic style and the story/ quests are good for the most part. The space helmet aka 
 fish bowl was a little disapointing but all the bosses were quite amusing. 
  
  Rent it. Not much new here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilj0e777
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Super paper Mario, is a very creative and original game. Not many games like it. It has unique 
 perspectives, eg. different dimensions, pixies, etc. It's very challenging and may take some time 
 to beat it. But it has almost no replay value. It also gets boring later on. I expected it to live 
 up the game cube version, but I was really quite dissapointed. I mean, 50 bucks went down the drain. 
 I mean, it's a decent game overall, but not really much action at all. The story board, is way 
 too simple. Also, It has WAYYYYYYYYYYY too much dialogue. Also, a bit more characters could be 
 nice. ONLY FOUR!!! You should save up for games like, Medal of honor heroes 2, Super smash bros 
 brawl, mario kart, etc. It's decent game, but you should just rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smeg1967
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 1, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Ho Hum im gonna keep this short. I haven't finnished this game but feel compelled to write a review. 
 
  I expected a superb wii follow-up to thousand year door on the gamecube. Instead i got half a game. 
 The RPG elements of TYD made paper mario. This is .... a wii version of super mario brothers. It 
 still very funny and quirky but totaly lost on me. Why take the RPG elements out of the series??? 
 Im dissapointed in nintendo. Sure the wii is great and VERY "Family friendly" And i fear this is 
 where the problem lies. TOO family friendly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluesteel13
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  The Title Super paper mario was a bit confusng for me because the word Paper in the title and how 
 will you play if you are going to be somthing like paper. I went on Gamespot the following day and 
 went on the video clips and it looked darn good when i saw it, I chose to buy it and the journey 
 began.
  
  Story
  
  The story is a little different to other Mario games because in this one princess peach and Bowser 
 get Kidnapped by the Evil Count Bleck (New Enemy) . Count Bleck forces them to get maried and a Destruction 
 heart is formed, Before all of that this happens Marios at home with luigi and they are getting 
 bored because there is nothing to do so they come out of ther house and a toad comes running saying 
 the Princess is kidnapped, Mario and Luigi Get a rough idea who it is (Bowser) and go to his Castle. Meanwhile 
 at Bowsers castle they are setting a plan to kidnap Princess Peach, Mario and luigi come in and 
 mario talks to Bowser then Count bleck comes and zaps everyone in a portal exept mario then a magical 
 pixil comes called Tippi and takes Mario to flipside, there he meets Merlin who tells you have to 
 get 8 pure hearts to destroy the Destruction heart. There is also a book i forgot to tell you about 
 basically right in the begining there is a prohecy book being read about a hero who will defeat 
 Count Bleck (Mario)
  The problem with the game is that there is too much talking going on which gets so boring.
  
 
  Flipside (3D)
  
  The only way you can use flipside is when you have to go find a man he teaches you to use the power. Flipside 
 takes you to 3D which is exelent it shows you all of the things that you can not see in 2D (Secret 
 paths, enemys, doors getting to higher obstacles ) Flipside can get tedious at times which lets this 
 game down but very useful in the game.
  
  Characters
  
  You can be many characters in this game which is very good, the first character you start to play 
 is Mario. Marios ability is to go in flipside which is very usefull, when you go to higher levels 
 you meet new characters the next character you meet
  is Princess Peach her ability is to glide in the air with her umbrella and block falling things 
 in the air with her umbrella. In this game you dont need to be only one character each level you 
 can be different ones, anyway the next character on the way is Luigi you only play 1 level with 
 him because he disapears after but you will play with him again , his ability is to jump high to 
 higher platforms. There is also one more character well you wont beleive this but the prophecy book 
 said that there will be four hereos the last hero is Bowser his movement is not good that much 
 but his fire power is cool. 
  
  Pixls
  
  In this game there are pixls, all toegeather there are 4 pixls you have to find ,and merlin gives 
 you one called Tippi each of these Pixls have got special powers to help you with the journey. Tippis 
 power is to find secret doors hidden and make things visible so you can see in 2D the only way 
 to do this is if you point the front of the Wii remote towards the t. v. The secound pixl name is 
 Thoreau , his special power is to pick up objects and through at enemies it is also good help with 
 hitting switches. The next pixls name is Boomer is the best well i think so, what you can do with 
 him is is place him downn like a bomb and then he explodes so the bad guys will be blown up also 
 you can explode easy bricks. The Third Pixl name is Slim, what you can do with him is go paper thin 
 then when you go still you will be invisible it is good to get past lasered doors and things like 
 that. The last pixl name is Thudley, with Thudley you can go round pounding baddies and hard blocks.
 
  
  This game is such a fun game to have even though it has got issues with it oh well the jokes are 
 funny the levels are good graphics are good the Gameplay is good and the characters are good.
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndYOU
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  I'm new to the Paper Mario series, but I'm not new to Mario. I'll have to say that that this game 
 gave me many thrills and surprises, and new enemies too. The flipping feature is awesome, and I 
 also like vthe fact that it doesn't force you to use a certin character every level. Perhaps the 
 biggest surpise to me in this game is that Bowser is an ally. The graphics in this game mean nothing 
 to me, because when I'm playing Mario I'm not expecting it to look pretty, I'm expecting a good 
 story. The main story lasts quite a while (at least it did for me) , and all the side missions can 
 keep you interested in the vgame even after you've completed it, and you'll still porbably want 
 to play again. This game is a muat have for any Mario fan, old or new, and it's story will keep 
 you pulled in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meowcow22
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  I've not bought it because it doesnt look good enough. you don't even get partners! its not as 
 gd as 1000 year door! I'm Outraged by the fact that u can get 3d it's not at all wat i was hoping 
 for sso many better games out there im really not sure wy u can b 3d it's not really an RPG i'm 
 thinking there should be proper RPG battles instead of the modern action game kinda fighting it's 
 not what paper mario or RPG is about it's miles worst than the first one. Sonic, Sega's popular 
 hedgehog hero, makes his debut on the Nintendo Wii in Sonic and the Secret Rings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yomommaugly
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  this game is so awsome yuo should definetly get it because it is highly addictive. this game is 
 just right in lenght and diffulcultly. it is one of my favorite games ever made in history and 
 i wish it was longer because it is that fun. well since it can get longer i hope that they make 
 one in the future made the same way they did this one. this will be a game that you will never 
 forget or stop playing well at least until you beat it .that is all i have to say on this game 
 and hope if you don't have it to buy it and enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SemiMaster
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Seeing as how the first two Paper Mario games, Paper Mario and Paper Mario The Thousand Year Door 
 respectively, are my favorite Mario based games of all time (and favorite games overall even) , 
 this game has had some high standards to live up to) .
  
  For those expecting a 3rd Mario RPG, don't. This game is more like Super Mario Bros 2 with the 
 item and experience retention gameplay elements of prior Paper Mario games. Beyond that, this game 
 is a platformer, although not entirely linear. Backtracking and moving in all 3 dimensions removes 
 some of the linearity, but don't expect freedom like in Grand Theft Auto or Elder Scrolls, but 
 think more than Super Mario Brothers. Anyways...
  
  Gameplay : The gameplay is simple. You control Mario, Peach, Bowser and Luigi in a platforming 
 romp through Flipside and 8 surrounding worlds threatened to be sucked into the void summoned by 
 Count Bleck via the Dark Prognosticus book. The Light Prognosticus says there are 4 heroes... take 
 a guess who those 4 are. Instead of Crystals or Stars, this time there are 8 colored "Pure Hearts" 
 that the heroes have to collect. Yes, they range the whole color of the rainbow like previous Paper 
 Mario games.
  
  Basically you have the options of running and jumping. Mario has probably the most important ability 
 in the game, switching between 2 and 3 dimensions. If lost or in doubt, switch to 3 Dimensions 
 and look for a new way forward. The next most important I believe is Peach who while pressing down 
 can hide under her parasol and become invincible (she's actually the best fighter believe it or 
 not) , she can also float using that parasol to jump impossible gaps. Luigi is close in that he 
 can jump VERY high, and with his super jump (Which jumps very high) can do massive damage, even 
 against protected enemies above him. If he could turn invincible he would be without a doubt the 
 best fighter. Bowser is a big bruiser and does double the damage of everyone, but he can't duck 
 and can't climb and jumps and runs slow. He's hard to avoid attacks with, although his fire breath 
 is a punishing attack, he still is too cumbersome outside of some situations.
  
  That being said, you come across these little floating 2 dimensional fairy like things, named "pixls". 
 They come in many shapes and sizes, one is Boomer, a bomb, another is Carrie, a little floating 
 thing that allows you to pass spikes and move fast, another is Fleep who flips things and makes 
 them appear and dizzy enemies. My personal favorite is Cudge who is a hammer. Once you get him, 
 Peach is the undisputed best combatant in your party (Which you can switch on the fly mind you, 
 provided your characters are in the party) . 
  
  Aside from that, you have items that do damage, heal life, double damage, reduce damage recieved 
 and more. Sometimes they automatically work, other times, they require button presses, Wiimote 
 turns, shakes and what not. A little bit of the Wiimote is used here, but more or less, this game 
 could be played with an old school NES controller. Seriously. 
  
  There is no MP, no Star or Crystal power, nothing like that, so you have to rely on the characters, 
 pixls and items. This game isn't strategic combat, it's basically hop, bomb or hammer on enemies. 
 And your main Pixl, Tippi who is used by turning the Wiimote like a flash light at the screen to 
 reveal hidden objects as well as enemy weaknesss will tell you exactly how to defeat the monsters.
 
  
  Again, you this game is quite easy. You can't die from falling in pits, you get lots of HP up chances, 
 and the bosses can more or less be obliterated by one of the characters super abilities (like Wracktail 
 in the Pit of 100 Trials can be killed by Luigi in one round if you have a damage boosting item) . 
 Only one time did I have trouble with one boss, and even then, it was just because she moved so 
 fast it was hard to hit her with thrown objects. But if your skill at jumping and multibouncing 
 on your opponent is high, then you will succeed.
  
  Beyond that, there are other random power ups like Flowers which drop coins from the sky, other 
 flowers slow or speed up time (giving you 3x the experience) . Yea, you get experience for more 
 HP and more damage... but that's about it. Other items include invincible stars which turn your 
 character into a towering 8 bit rendition of the character in question which allows you to bowl 
 through the entire section with ease.
  
  Aside from that, some puzzles, mazes and fetch quests, actually a lot of the latter, there isn't 
 much more. In fact, this game has a lot of non gaming sections. What I mean by that is there is 
 a part where you have to earn money for breaking a vase. You can either mash on the jump button, 
 run like a hampster in a cage or... well thats it. It takes a solid 15 minutes of running to the 
 right to make the money you need. Yes, you have to sit there holding on the right direction for 
 a total of 15 minutes (you can stop and start up again later, but the total time is about 15 minutes) . 
 Other quests are obnoxious, like one guy makes you write Please 5 times, and if you didn't know 
 to write it in capitals or with a !, you won't get by that level. Other obnoxious fetch quests 
 can become tedious and irritating mind you.
  
  And some of the levels are graphically so sparse that there are very little distinguishing features 
 (Level 4-3 and level 8-3) come to mind that they actually hamper the gameplay. Imagine finding 
 a tiny grey lightning bolt on an offwhite background or going through a copy and paste wallpaper 
 space background through nondescript wormholes. Yea. It's like that.
  
  So while a less challenging (very much so) platformer, it lacks the tactical combat that made the 
 previous games more challenging and deep. I guess this makes it more approachable to a larger demographic, 
 but still, something is missing and a lot of filler is in place in this game.
  
  Gameplay = 7 out of 10.
  
  Graphics : The game is one big polygon. Very few curved features 
 are found. I guess that goes with the whole "Paper Mario" theme, although previous paper Mario 
 games had circular graphics. Sadly I don't think this game graphically pushes the boundaries of 
 the Wii. In fact it looks almost the same as The Thousand Year Door. 
  
  Particle Effects are low, the pallete selection is low, and the 3D imagery is N64 quality. 
  
 
  Imagine an even less colorful (the last chapter is almost entirely in black and white outside of 
 the characters and enemies) . Personally, I feel that The Thousand Year door had better graphics 
 in a game that was 3 years older. Not that they are horrendous, but it is not any major graphical 
 leap in terms of technological prowess or better art style compare to previous games which took 
 place in 3D at all times even though it appeared as if it was made out of a paper diaorama.
  
  Some interesting retro graphics in chapter 3 appear where the whole world is pixelated, including 
 the boss. However, this may not appeal to anyone who isn't nostalgic for the 8 bit days. Younger 
 crowds may miss the significance of this art style.
  
  The overall feeling I get from this game is more of the same, but no way improved upon the previous 
 formula, and in some cases, worse and not utilizing the Wii's power to the fullest.
  
  Graphics = 7 out of 10
  
  Sound : The sound in this game has some nice effects, like the powers 
 the pixls activate, the thunder and rumbles in the background from void and what not. There is 
 no voice overs yet again outside of the Mario mumbles and Peach "ooohs" and Luigi's "ooooh yeeeaaa" 
 and Bowsers growls. I wish Nintendo would just come into the 21st century at some point.
  
  Instead of the voice overs, the game has in game text which displays with little bleeps and bloops 
 which do get annoying after hearing them the whole game. 
  
  The music proper is a good mix of remixed Mario classics and new fare. The last chapter is full 
 of end game music straight out of the 8 bit era. You have to have been there (in game and in the 
 8 bit era) to appreciate it fully though. Some of the themes are melancholy and appropriate to 
 the feeling (when someone is lost or presumed dead) or when the enemy is attacking it's dark and 
 sinister.
  
  On the whole, it's good, but again, no great improvement over the previous games.
  
  Sound 
 = 8 out of 10
  
  Value :
  
  I'll say this.
  
  I completed 1 of the Pit of 100 Trials (there are two in this game) and the whole game in 22:15 
 total of playtime. So it is longer than the 15 hours put forth by many people in reviews. But as 
 I said in the gameplay section, there is a LOT of backtracking and obnoxious fetch quests that 
 sometimes end up in dead ends. 
  
  There are a few other things you can collect like cards and do the other harder Pit of 100 Trials 
 and see people after you complete the game, but don't expect a whole lot more than a good 24 to 
 28 hours of play time. 
  
  You may want to relive the story again in the future, but this isn't a playthrough again immediately 
 type game. At least it was 50 bucks instead of 60. Might be cheaper for some of you reading this 
 who don't have it already.
  
  Value = 8 out of 10
  
  Tilt : This is where this game shines. Yes, the game has some annoying fetch quests, yes it starts 
 off slow, but the humor and classic charm of the Paper Mario franchise comes out once you get going 
 after the 3rd chapter.
  In one cutscene you talk to a giant chameleon type nerd character named Francis who tries to hit 
 on Peach in a virtual dating sim type game. If you played any of the dating games on flash websites, 
 then you will find this hilarious, especially his bragging about displaying his 98789p megapixel 
 camera and the flash speed. This is Nintendo's way of trying to say "it's ok to be retro". Well 
 besides me wanting Nintendo to catch up with the modern era, it is genuinely funny because we all 
 have a bit of this character in us.
  
  Another boss fight takes place in a true RPG turn based menu driven combat system. If you've played 
 Dragon Warrior (Known as Dragon Quest now) , then you will feel right at home in this fight. 
  
  Another interesting thing is that this game seems to break the 4th wall, as if the characters 
 know they are in a game and "Don't want it to be game over" instead of saying the word "dying". 
 
  
  Too bad these great scenes don't take up more of the game though and have less of the backtracking 
 and filler. 
  
  The ending tugs at your heart once you figure out the major plot twist (which is becoming more 
 transparent the further you progress in the plot) . The game has a good moral message, as do all 
 of the Mario games, so fear not anyone with children, this game is family friendly (although it 
 does have dark overtones, maybe more so than previous games) . 
  
  Tilt = 9 out of 10
  
  Recap
  
  Gameplay = 7 out of 10
  Graphics = 7 out of 10
  Sound = 8 out of 10
  Value = 
 8 out of 10
  Tilt = 9 out of 10
  
  Pros :
  + A cheerful colorful romp through another Paper Mario game with a wonderful cast of characters 
 and charming humor. 
  + A good number of powers and diverse character abilities take this beyond your average platformer.
 
  + A wonderful dose of nostalgia for the veterans of the 8 bit era.
  + A great artstyle and musical selection...
  
  Cons :
  - ... which hasn't been improved upon 
 or updated since the series inception. C'mon Nintendo, lets not just rely on pixels and their kitsch 
 and would a voiceover kill you?
  - TOO DAMN EASY
  - A lot of backtracking sections and parts that are obnoxious time guzzlers for no other purpose 
 seemingly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is an excellent game. There is so much creativity in the game, and it's obvbious 
 that Nintendo had some creative thinkers working on the level design. The concept of "flipping" 
 allows you to see the level in 2-D and 3-D, which called for much creativity and great puzzles, 
 but wasn't used as much later on in the game, which made me feel like they gave up on the concept 
 after awhile. The continued concept of paper characters is still great. The graphics are as good 
 as they need to be with paper characters, but I must say that they are pretty impressive. It's 
 really cool how Nintendo uses paper-style graphics to make such a funny, enjoyable environment. 
 The story isn't really anything too special, but it was kind of cool to find out about the world 
 of Flipside existing in a different dimension. The game is really fun to play as well, but there 
 really IS quite a bit of dialogue. If you care to read it, though, you will find yourself a lot 
 of good laughs. I love how Count Bleck, the main villain, always talks in the third person. Hilarious! 
 You also get to play as 3 other characters besides Mario- Peach, Bowser, and Luigi. 
  
  Overall, Super Paper Mario is a GREAT game fueled with creativity, humor, and good fun. It's a 
 great platformer and I highly recommend it to people who like the previous Paper Mario games or 
 people looking for something new.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuck1234526
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  Of all the years I've played Mario games, never did I think a developer like intelligent systems 
 could nail Mario so hard. Once again, our flat and funny patragonist is off on an adventure to 
 stop both the second and third dimensions getting sucked into a giant black hole. Along the way, 
 you'll meet Tippi, Troureau, and many other Pixls (more on them later) . 
  
  Anyway, while the other two Paper Marios were RPGs with a little bit of platforming, Super Paper 
 Mario inverts that formula. While you still have HP, rather than battling for it in a turn-based 
 RPG battle, you fight for it in a jumping-on-other-peoples-heads extravaganza.
  
  This is where that little bit of RPG comes in. Not only do you play as Mario, but you also play 
 as Peach, Bowser, and Luigi! They all have different special abilities, for example, Mario can 
 flip into 3-D (more on that later) , Peach can float on her parasol, Bowser can roast anyone who 
 stands in his way, and Luigi can do a really high jump. 
  
  While you are teaming up with those characters, you will also meet pixls. They will give you different 
 abilities and follow you around like parteners in the thousand year door. 
  
  The main hook of this game out of all of it, is flipping into 2-D and 3-D. The developers have 
 pretty much made the whole game around that. There are some interesting puzzles where you will 
 be in 2-D facing a solid wall, and flip into 3-D for fun, turns out there's a little hole in that 
 wall. 
  
  This game is as charming as the others and I highly reccomend it to those who haven't played it 
 already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkgamingdude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  ...::The Good::...
    "Laugh Out Loud" humor
    Good lifespan, with a fari amount of replay value
    2D/3D Effects are awesome
    Interesting 
 Story
    Solid Gameplay
  
  ...::The Bad::...
    Weak RPG Elements
    Some parts can get a little dull
  
  Super Paper Mario is the plumbers first proper outting 
 for the Wii, does it deliver?
  
  Well first off I should explain that this is not the same as the previous Paper Mario games. It 
 is not a turn-based RPG. This is a side-scrolling adventure with a few RPG elements.
  
  Super Paper Mario introduces a new villain, Count Bleck, who is out to destroy all worlds. To do 
 so, Bleck kidnaps Bowser and Peach and forces them to marry which creates the 'Chaos Heart.' Mario 
 is transported to the town of Flipside where he then begins his quest which sees him fetching 8 
 'Pure Heart,' the only items that can defeat Bleck. 
  
  The story is told through a chunk of text, so be sure to put your reading glasses on. But there 
 is a load of humor in there, just like the previous Paper Mario games.
  
  Mario isn't the only star though, you will have characters join your party through-out the game 
 with different abilities which will add you as you progress. For example, Mario has the ability 
 to flip from 2D to 3D which allows him to see hidden enemies, access new areas or locate hidden 
 treasure. This adds a whole new level to the game.
  
  Other than gaining new party members, you also recive pixls. Each pixl will have a unique ability 
 that you'll need to use to progressing in the game. For example, Boomer the bomb pixl will let 
 you take out obstacles that block your path ahead, while Dottie shrinks you down to the size of 
 an ant, which allows you to gain access to new areas or slip past foes who are oblivious to you.
 
  
  So Super Paper Mario blends elements of a platformer and a role-playing game together into a nice 
 package. Though once you get into the levels, it feels much more like a platformer. You'll travel 
 through levels in 2D whether it's running from one side of the screen to another or ascending straight 
 up into the clouds. Levels also contain different power ups, from making Mario turn into a giant, 
 invinceable 8-Bit version of himself to making coins fall from the sky. 
  
  While playing you'll be holding the Wiimote on its side. Use the left and right dirrections on 
 the D-Pad to move Mario about. Hitting 2 will make your character jump, while 1 activates your 
 current pixls ability. While playing as Mario, pushing A flips the world from 2D to 3D. '+' brings 
 up the menu screen where you can see character stats, important items, level info and more. 
  
  There are only a few things that will see you interacting with the remote. When jumping on 
 enemies, shaking the remote will reward you with bonus Exp. Using certain items will require you 
 do move the remote in certain ways, but other than that, there isn't much interaction. 
  
  There are a few side-quests and such to keep you occupied between levels and it will take you around 
 25-30 hours to complete the game fully.
  
  The graphics are simple yet big on little details. The art style is very nice and suits the games 
 style. The sound may be neat, but you'll not be humming along the tunes like you would with the 
 original Mario titles.
  
  All in all, Super Paper Mario is a fun game, but it can get a little dull at times, but it still 
 is a fun Wii game that will keep you entertained for a long time. I'd definitly say you should 
 check this one out.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gumo_gumo_rifle
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  I got the game 2 weeks ago and I thought it would be a walk in the park, I was wrong. The game 
 has a simple control system and the whole flipping idea is cool. The game has some parts when you 
 want to go into the tv and rip up mario. You can play as 4 characters and they all have thier specialalities, 
 for example: Mario can flip from 2-D to 3-D, Bowser deals double damage and breathes fire. The 
 story line is simple and plain. 
  
  The most annoying thing in the game is the FLIP METER, when Mario filps a meter appears, it has 
 10 little blocks and very 2 seconds you lose 1 blok and if you lose them all you lose 1 point of 
 health. This can be solved by completeing a thing called the PIT OF 100 TRIALS. You go through 
 100 rooms beating each enemie then advancing, when the pit is completed you can stay in flip for 
 as long as you want. The battles are in real time and not turnbased like the other 2 Paper Mario 
 Games. The game is good and I won't spoil anything but it has a very sad and touching ending.
 
  
  So get this game if you are a good gamer-Pro Gamer. :) Happy Fliping
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DawnClover
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  As usual, Nintendo likes to amazes us more and more with every released Mario game. It's amazing 
 for how long the moustached italian plummer dude has been around (since my friggin' childhood!) 
 and he yet amazes us just like before.
  
  Peach has been kidnaped... And well.. You know the dril. :P
  
  Oh wait! But this time, it was 
 not Bowser *shocker*. It was some dude that calls himself "Count Bleck" (and hell, he likes to 
 say his name a lot) . And this time, Mario must unite with his friends (and foes!) to fight this 
 evil menace. Count Bleck's plans include marrying Bowser and Peach to create a Chaos Heart and 
 destroy the worlds! The bastard. And now Mario has to find all the eight Pure Hearts!
  
  I won't say anything else, I don't want to spoil anything.
  
  01 - STORY ||
  That was a sum-up 
 of the basic story of Super Paper Mario. It is very funny as usual (even funnier than Paper Mario 
 for the GC, there are so many hillarious moments throughout the game!) and the story is very good 
 too. But waaaay too predictable. || 8/10
  
  02 - GAMEPLAY ||
  This is what makes this title shine! It mixed 2 different gaming styles into one:
  - Platform: 
 the game is divided into chapters, each chapter divided into different parts wich are played as 
 any old-school mario plaftform game. Platforming! Jumping and killing enemies etc (you can shake 
 the wiimote when you're in the air to gather more points!) .
  - RPG: Mario and his friends will level up as you keep destroying those damn goombas and etc and 
 the item using mechanics are also RPG-like. 
  You play with the wiimote only holding it sideways like it was an old-school NES controller. || 
 9/10
  
  03 - SOUND ||
  Some remixed and re-made Mario classics toguether with some new not-very-memorable tunes in here. 
 Sound effects are excelent as usual though. || 8/10
  
  04 - GRAPHICS ||
  The graphics are beautiful and the animations are flawless and very very smooth! It has a mix of 
 2D and 3D. You'll mainly play in 2D through the levels, but with Mario you can press A and he will 
 Flip into 3D mode for a few seconds and unviel many secrets! This adds some puzzles to the game 
 too, wich are very well made. || 9/10
  
  05 - LENGTH ||
  The game is big. It took me +- 20 hours to finish it but it was worth it! || 9/10
  
  06 - REPLAY? 
 ||
  Hm... I don't see why you would like to replay it right after you finish it. Maybe some years later. 
 There isn't really anything new on the second play-through. || 7/10
  
  OVERALL: 9.0
  
  It was worth the wait (Americans got it a lot earlier =\) and worth the time spent playing it. 
 One of my favorite games on Wii. I can't wait for Mario Galaxy now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waldenshimmy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Not so good. I bought this game thinking it would be just like the others, but i was so wrong. 
 The music was terrible, the storyline was thin, the bosses were easy, (i beat the last boss on 
 my first shot) , and the thought of flipping looked cool, but was awful. The bad part was also that 
 it wasn't turn based, and each world was split into 4 parts (1-1 2-1 3-1 4-1 etc) which kind of 
 sucked as there are no inhabitants, towns, or stores or anything without baddies in the town-like 
 areas. I gave it a 6.5 because it did last me a while and i enjoyed getting to play as luigi bowser 
 and mario. But i forgot to mention that i liked the actual characters rather than pixls.
  
  
  THE END 
::::::

::::::
UserName: forgiven3200
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is great! If you like puzzles and/or thinking games, then this game is for you. 
 Graphics are very well drawn out. The music and sound effects are also good! In the game you noticed 
 a lot of old Mario worlds, music, and backgrounds throughout the game. In this game you play all 
 the characters: Mario, Peach, Bowser, and Luigi. The game has these cool little Pixls that help 
 the characters out throughout the game. It is the same kind of concept as Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year 
 Door. Mario must rescue Peach from Count Bleck. A very good game for the whole family. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: so_hai
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 1, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  After an extensive introduction (with vast amounts of text and only minor cut-scenes) , the player 
 is introduced to "Flipside", the practical overworld of the game.
  
  Within this town, the player can interact with NPCs as well as get involved in side-quests and 
 even a virtual video-arcade. These little distractions are a nice addition to the main game.
  
  The main game is divided up into Chapters, and each Chapter is split into four levels. The 
 gameplay is mainly platform hopping and enemy stomping, with a little problem solving thrown in 
 for good measure. This is my main gripe with the game though - the gamplay styles are too watered-down.
 
  
  It seems like they intended to cover the best areas from RPG games and platformers, but it never 
 really came together that well for me. The platforming is hardly challenging, and the RPG elements 
 are hardly interesting. The item and leveling systems are very basic indeed.
  
  The inclusion of Peach and Bowser as playable characters excited me, but their actual role in the 
 game is minimal and sometimes even forced.
  
  Visually though, the game is very cheery and colourful. The sprites (and they are 2D sprites!) 
 are comical and lively, and the dialog (if you don't mind reading in your video games) is fairly 
 interesting and sometimes even out-loud laughable.
  
  Long-term interest in this title may wane, as once the main mission is complete, their are only 
 a few chores left to tidy up, and admittedly, some of them aren't so fun.
  
  I have mixed feelings about this title. On one hand, it is a very original concept, with funny 
 and kooky gameplay, but on the other, you kind of feel like the game was only a reflection of what 
 it might of been, and the easy difficulty really does harm the replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keetoo
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  At first I actually hated this game. Of course that's because I was comparing it to the Game Cube's 
 "Thousand Year Door." If you've played either previous Paper Mario games and loved them for the 
 same reasons I did, than you may be somewhat initially disappointed by this game.
  I enjoyed the combat in the 1000 year door immensely. I liked having to time my attacks, or counter-attacks, 
 and I liked the sense of being tactical with who to attack with, and which attack, etc. etc. I 
 especially enjoyed the pacing of the game (Even when I was back-tracking it never REALLY felt like 
 I was back-tracking because I'd have a new paper ability to use, or different enemies would be 
 around, or I simply just liked going through a certain place again.)
  And in this game it was ALL GONE! I immediately felt ripped off. When I play Paper Mario I want 
 engaging turn-based battles (engaging in that you still have to perform well and on time) In this 
 game just jump on an enemy, for the most part, until it dies.
  It just feels like the RPG elements are stripped bare, and the platforming elements are also stripped 
 bare. It's trying to be a cross between an RPG and a platformer, but it comes off as trying NOT 
 to be too much of an RPG, or too much of a platformer, so you don't get much of either.
  And being on the Wii I was really hoping for some really neat and evolved form of the turn-based 
 fights of the previous games. I just figured that the battles were going to be potentially ground-breaking 
 and even epic at times. 
  Nope.
  So, what do I like about this game? Well, it IS Mario after all. I've been with him from his first 
 adventure ever, so I'm probably genetically predisposed to liking him by now. I really don't have 
 much of a choice. 
  The story for this game is really nothing too special to me, though the characters and their conversations 
 are entertaining (however the dialogue can become a tad tedious, if only because of the sheer volume 
 of it at times) . 
  I do also enjoy the flipping ability, for the most part. It's interesting having to go in and out 
 of 3-D to advance through a certain area, and there are a ton of hidden secrets in this game that 
 lead to all sorts of items and new places. 
  I will say though that practically every puzzle is barely worth the name, it's as if it could've 
 been a puzzle if the game didn't go out of its way to make the solution so obvious. (And this game 
 COULD have been a challenge if it wasn't a half-baked platformer/RPG there I said it again)
  So, to finish my spiel, I would only recommend this game to very dedicated Mario fans or children. 
 Remember too though, that I'm only being so hard on it because I was disappointed in the direction 
 they've taken with the series. I was expecting so much more. Like I said, I half-believed that 
 Nintendo was going to set a new standard with interactive turn-based battles. Oh well, hopefully 
 next time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erebyssial
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 1:29 am PT
Review:  The Good: Quality gameplay that never gets boring | Nice length with lots of fun replay value | 
 Successful in both the RPG and Platforming genre | Worthy changes from predeccessors |
  
  The Bad: Audio isn't very engaging | 3D world visuals aren't very impressive | Excessive dialogue 
 may get annoying |
  
  _____________________
  
  The main reason I got this game was because I'm a fan of the fun RPG Adventures that is Paper Mario. 
 That was when I actually played it, realizing it offers SO much more than the other Paper Mario 
 games, a revolution to the series.
  
  Mario has a new enemy villian this time, Count Bleck, who has set out to destroy all worlds. The 
 only way to halt his plans is to collect eight Pure Hearts which are all located in different regions, 
 and the games story and gameplay revolves around this. Along the way you'll encounter classic enemies 
 as well as some new faces, and of course recruit some allies of your own to help Mario's quest.
 
  
  The difference between the way you play this game compared to the N64 and GC versions is alot larger 
 than you may think. Starting with the main aspect of any RPG game - The leveling up and fighting. 
 In previous Paper Mario games, the fighting was played through a "taking turns" style battle, where 
 you and your opponent simply selected an attack and that would be how damage is dealt. In Super 
 Paper Mario, this has changed significantly. The main gameplay is played as you would in a classic 
 2D Mario platformer, walking through a level, jumping around and on enemies etc, but it's much 
 more fun here. Defeating the enemies gives you experience points which accumulate for a level up, 
 replacing the way you get them in the other games as mentioned before. This is definitely a worthy 
 new addition, as itt makes the game constantly moving, and the player always active. 
  
  You also get partners throughout the game like the previous games, this time "Pixls" which are 
 fantasy creatures that all carry out different roles to assist Mario get through the game. On top 
 of this, and what made the game so different, was the addition of being able to flip into 3D. You 
 could be walking in a 2D environment and with the simple push of the A Button, you flip into 3D 
 and seems like a whole new world to explore, yet you're in the exact same place. It gives you alot 
 of challenging puzzles and other fun things to do, the way 3D is implemented is fantastic. The 
 comedy in the game is also something to enjoy, refering to some of the speaking in the story.
 
  
  Yeah, Super Paper Mario is the same as before - 2D character and other picture designs. This is 
 definitely not a bad thing though, if you've played Paper Mario games before you'd know that this 
 isn't a let down, and it's the way it's played which really matters. The way the game is played 
 fits really well with the art, and it's great to have a game that looks different to other Mario 
 and RPG games.
  
  I love the extras in Paper Mario games. Even after finishing the game, there's heaps and heaps 
 of stuff to do.
  - Recipes. Gathering a variety of items and combining them with others to create new meals is great 
 fun. They also help you in gameplay (Healing, Power boosting etc.)
  - Catch Cards. The cards that have info on all enemies and allies, alot to have fun and collect.
 
  - Optional Pixls. After finishing the game you can get more of these and have more fun exploring.
 
  - Pit of 100 Trials. It's what its name says - A pit of 100 rooms where you have to defeat the 
 enemies to proceed, Awesome feature, this time there's 2 of them and takes alot of skill and leveling 
 up to beat both.
  
  No doubts in that this game is fantastic and awesome value. It took me about 25 hours to complete 
 the main play-through, and has moved to about 35 after doing heaps of the optional extras. If you 
 haven't got this game I very highly recommend it.
  
  Overall score: 92 / 100. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saga_gemini
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 14, 2007 12:24 am PT
Review:  well this game was borrowed to me by a friend, and im already at the last chapter, before the last 
 boss. and i think im ready to make a review of this game.
  
  at first when you start off the game you'll be impressed by how cute the graphic style of the game 
 can be, also you'll inmediately see how the gameplay works and that is easy and cool...
  
  this game is "super" meaning that is a platformer unlinke the normal RPG paper marios, but this 
 characteristic doesnt take away the fact that there's a lot of dialogue in this game, and that 
 it is really funny and entertaing.
  
  The bad thing about this videogame is that when you reach half of the game, you feel like you just 
 want to beat it right away, you start to realize that THERE IS TOO MUCH DIALOGUE, which gets tiring 
 and also some special items, like the star that makes you big and invincible, only appears a few 
 short times and in spaces where are clearly constructed to be destroyed by the power of the star, 
 other items like the speed flowers are just kinda useless. Other bad thing is that some Pixls you 
 only get to use them at least 2 times in a game, which is a waste of ideas. And finally this game 
 is actually too easy, and the final chapter, "in bleck castle" the difficuly of the game changes 
 drastically, i mean its still easy but i mean is not THAT easy as before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dese1
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2007 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Reading in video games is annoying but tolerable
  this game gets several demerits for the ridiculously long and irritating reading sequences
  
 
  other than that, GAME ON!!!!
  
  haha i enjoyed this game alot, this is on that i refuse to ridicule because of poor graphics, why 
 would i if the game is really FUN!
  
  this game kept me busy for a good 20 hrs and most of them were fun!
  
  did i mention this game 
 is fun... lol
  
  in either case, there is alot to do and playing as bowser is VERY SATISFYING, the whole 2d-3d is 
 kinda wierd but it works
  
  graphics = 6 (dont care though)
  gameplay = 10
  controls = 8
  replayablilty= 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 4:51 am PT
Review:  If saving the damsel in distress is a tired core concept of stories, so is the core concept of 
 saving the world. Here in Super Paper Mario, it makes use of the two cliche concepts and infuses 
 them with fresh wit and humorous writing, thus making me wonder why I ever said that the two aforementioned 
 story concepts were corny and overused.
  
  Speaking of the story, Super Paper Mario is about the two prophecies which are namely the Light 
 and Dark Prognostici, the former being the one where the "Hero" prospers against the conspirators 
 and the latter being the one where evil prospers and the world turns to mush. So, of course, being 
 the "Hero", you'll have to make the Light Prognosticus true and defeat all sorts of bosses and 
 conventional Mario monster fare to initially save the princess, your friends and eventually the 
 world with the help of those aforementioned friends as well as some creatures called Pixls.
  
  The different and cool thing that you have here is the ability to flip from 2D to 3D and back. 
 But the condition set for this is that there is a limited duration to be in 3D mode because the 
 Mario here is very paper-like and well, 2D. If you exceed that time limit (which is indicated by 
 a bar) , you lose 1HP. The problem with this concept is the execution. No, there's nothing wrong 
 with the graphics in general as they are smooth and even humorously wacky at times but the camera. 
 You won't be able to rotate it so if you encounter blocking err... blocks in your view while trying 
 to jump that specific block, don't be surprised. It will happen most of the time.
  
  The other main characters you get to play, namely Princess Peach, Bowser and Luigi, also have different 
 abilities (but not the ability to "flip") and this makes for varition in gameplay as the abilities 
 themselves react to different controls. On-the-fly character changing is also very convenient especially 
 when solving a character specific puzzle. 
  
  Pixls also get the on-the-fly changing treatment as they help you through different types of puzzles 
 as well. One such Pixl named Slim enables you to evade different traps and enemies therefore rendering 
 you practically invisible, that is if you don't move. It also helps you get through ultra-thin 
 holes that lead to another important room, hence the name Slim.
  
  The biggest plus point the game has is its level design. Because you'll be able to flip between 
 2D and 3D worlds, there'll definitely be a lot of hidden objects that are simply fun to find and 
 explore in as the game is chock full of them. But even without the 3D view does the level design 
 still delight and challenge.
  
  Overall, Super Paper Mario, while not perfect, has superb level design and a great story that benefits 
 from a creative and humorous script. The gameplay in itself is also a highlight that fuses RPG 
 and platforming elements together and meshes them well, the bad thing about the great concept is 
 that the camera suffers in 3D mode as you cannot rotate it, much less move it. Nonetheless, the 
 game delights and is a must-play by everyone, love or hate Mario. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guard12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  To be honest I was skeptical about this game before I got it because I didnt know how the change 
 from rpg to platformer would go. To my surprise this game was excellent. Everything from graphics 
 to gameplay. Nintendo definently proves its superiority for having best first party software with 
 this game. The story is great and it draws you in from the start to end. The characters were cleverly 
 made into there 2d forms. The new characters were a joy to have around (except Tippi) . The difficulty 
 of the game could be a little harder. Although the some of the puzzles were tedious, none of the 
 actual fighting was hard. You could actually complete most of the game without switching out Mario. 
 I personally used Luigi but he basically was the same as Mario. Overall, the game is terrific in 
 every way and was a huge surprise for me to see how good the game actually is. A must have for 
 the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AWESOME_GAME
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  The game is awesome, great gameplay, cool graphics, realy good storyline, overall, it has everything 
 a good game has to have... But, I don't know why that this game isn't as cool as the other Paper 
 Mario games... I thought Paper Mario 64 was REALY cool and Paper Mario and the Thousnad-Year Door 
 was one of the coolest games I ever played on my life, it was a perfect sequel and shown that mario 
 is perfect anywhere, even on a rpg... But back to the point, Super Paper Mario may get a bit boring 
 in some moments, and exagerated a little on cutscenes... The storyline is a bit too complex, and 
 if you blink, you may loose the base of the story. As all Mario games, this games has fun characters 
 and funny dialogs that may take some laughs out of you (wich is a somehow rare on games) . The idea 
 of Mario flipping was realy creative, and with this flipping, there is a whole new world for to 
 explore, wich makes the game harder, but a lot more fun. My conclusion is that I waited much more 
 from this game, and it made the most common mistake on the game world, they put too much efort 
 on things that aren't realy important, and forgot the main thing a game needs, it has to be fun... 
 I think thats where Thousand-Year Door outstands itself... But anyway, the game is still awesome 
 and is worth buying, and if you're a Mario fan, you know what to do. O O O O O O O O O O O O O 
 O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O THANK YOU FOR READING! O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O 
 O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vj23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 5:54 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario had a heavy burden on it's shoulders, being a flagship title for Wii. Thankfully 
 it really delivers. The action is balanced, the controls are solid and the game is packed with 
 excellent ideas. There is a great sense of humour (Bowser anyone) , and it never get's repetive 
 or tiresome. Combined with graphics of excellent aesthetics and lovely music this is a must have 
 title for the Wii. It should also be noted that it is very ususal for a sequel (especially third 
 in a row, if I am not mistaken) to be packed with faults and game-wrecking errors in the company's 
 effort to keep a franchise alive. Thank god that is not the case here.
  Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madogmgd
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  this game is great fun anyone familiar with the series will be pleased with this game the 3d flipping 
 works well the wii mote movements function perfectly everything about this game is very charming 
 and appealing
  youll spend hours through it the story starts out with mario
  hes trapped in a world and must rescue peach peach got married
  to bowser and now its up to mario 
 to save her you can unlock
  more people to pal along with you and switch between them to get to stuff etc. spoiler alert!!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  
  
  peaches umbrella to get to places
  
  anyway this games great if your not sure weither to buy it
  if your a fan of mario and or the 
 paper mario series its definatly worht adding to your collection rent or buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiboy95
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  Paper Mario's new change was certainly a success. A must-have for paper mario fans and wii owners. 
 I loved how you could play as other characters like peach and bowser ( I didn't really like playing 
 as luigi) , and the battle theme no annoying starge or curtains, just plain old fighting. The sound 
 was great. I never got tired of the music, most of it was catchy. I did not see how the camera 
 was bad when flipping to 3-d it should have been rated 10... the partners (pixls) were great like 
 dottie who makes you.. a dot even thought they could barely talk. The game play and storlyine were 
 very creative it was even funny 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tupaschoal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is a must have game. If you always like that old Super Mario, of SNES, you'd 
 like it. With the same look as the Super Mario, but with graphics improved (like cell-shading) 
 this RPG makes you laugh and get lots of fun. It's pretty nice when you are in a world and don't 
 know what to do, then you turn into 3D vision and see that there's a hidden pipe, or when you turn 
 the vision to avoid that square falling enemy because it's flat like a paper! You enjoy because 
 there's no bad point, you always enjoy with the scenario, with the carachters, items, cities. I 
 highly recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bauerpower324
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Let me put it this way, It's great and it sux. The great part about it is that it is the first 
 real mario game besides mario party, since super mario sunshine. It is a highly addicted game, 
 in about the first 5 hours but then we get to the sux part. The sux part is that it is the same 
 thing, over and over again, just with a different background, here's the equasion: 4 levels + 1 
 boss fight + one magic heart x 7= Super Paper Mario. There is no multiplayer and the graphics look 
 like they were meant for the gamecube. Im sorry but the game is really good in some places, and 
 bad in others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Np_Pro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is essentially mario: 2-D, sidescrolling, worlds 1-8 fun. But it is different. 
 There are RPG like elements that make you think of the original Paper Mario days, plus multiple 
 characters and great humor. Flipping is what makes SPM outstanding. When playing as Mario, you 
 can flip the 2-D world to 3-D with the press of the A button. This never gets old, all the way 
 through the final fight.
  However, flipping is just about the only thing that lasts the whole game. Everything else gets 
 repetitive by about world 5 or 6. I literally had to force myself to beat the game, just because 
 I wasn't motivated. Switching characters is a pain because only Mario is really useful; everyone 
 else I only used when I was forced to. The puzzles are good but are either too easy or too hard. 
 Backtracking is confusing and the levels lose their individuality later on.
  Don't get me wrong; this game is awesome and a must-play for most people. My only major quibble, 
 besides all the smaller ones, is Flipside, the games town. After every world you go back to flipside 
 to do some mindless tasks. There are sidequests and such, but exploring the town takes too long 
 to be worth it; every elevator takes about a minute to ride, and it gets annoying fast because 
 you have to go floor by floor.
  The humor and sound effects are great in Mario. The first boss quickly shows this, ranking marios 
 mustache as level 5 and, once infected, saying I am error. (Zelda fans know all about that) . The 
 humor doesn't get old, but unfortunately the jokes are few and far between in the second half of 
 the game.
  Super Paper Mario is a must play for those who like innovation and humor, and classic Mario levels. 
 Although the game may not finish strong and has a weak plot, it is worth the play through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckylucas11
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  While Mario's proper 3D Wii adventure is still a ways off, Nintendo and developer Intelligent Systems 
 have cooked up an engaging adventure to tide the plumber's fans over -- Super Paper Mario. Although 
 originally slated to be a GameCube release, Super Paper Mario has been shifted to the Wii to good 
 effect. The unique game is a hybrid of platforming and role-playing that feels both new and familiar 
 at the same time. The game has many of the aesthetics of the previous Paper Mario games and features 
 an inventive story, eccentric characters, rock-solid gameplay, and genuinely funny dialogue. While 
 the whole package isn't quite refined enough to attain classic status, Super Paper Mario is still 
 a great game that stands among the Wii's best. Mario is back to save the day yet again.
  The game's story revolves around Mario's attempt to stop the dastardly Count Bleck, a new villain 
 to add to the plumber's rogues' gallery, who has set out to destroy all worlds. Oddly enough, Bleck's 
 plot of destruction is fueled by the forced marriage of Princess Peach and Bowser, which he has 
 arranged and which creates a chaos heart the count then uses to get his destruction on. In the 
 ensuing chaos, Mario is transported to the interdimensional town of Flipside and asked to help 
 stop Bleck. To halt the destruction of all worlds, Mario must collect eight objects called pure 
 hearts to form the purity heart, which is an ancient artifact of great power and the only thing 
 that can stop Bleck's plans. To find the hearts, Mario must venture to various worlds through dimensional 
 doors conveniently located in Flipside. Each door can be opened only by using a pure heart, which 
 sets up the game's linear structure. Each dimension comprises a chapter in the game and is broken 
 up into four parts. The fourth part of each chapter ends in a boss fight and yields a heart if 
 you win. As you collect the pure hearts, you'll meet up with the game's colorful cast of characters, 
 which include a number of familiar faces and some new, helpful friends. The story is told through 
 a hefty chunk of text, and despite the volume of content to read through, there's a sparkling sense 
 of humor that is on par with the previous games in the series. Though Mario is the star of the 
 game, you'll come to have four members in your party that you can switch between on the fly, though 
 you can be in control of only one of them at any given time. Each playable character will feature 
 a unique ability you'll need to use to progress. Mario gains the power to flip the 2D world around 
 him into 3D, which lets him access new areas, avoid enemies, or see hidden items. The only limit 
 to using the ability is an onscreen meter that counts down. If you stay flipped for too long, you'll 
 lose one point of health, and the meter will begin counting down again. Princess Peach brings her 
 mighty parasol into the mix. Besides allowing her to float during a jump, it can be used to defend 
 against enemy attacks. The mighty Bowser is also along for the adventure and offers double the 
 attack power of the other characters, as well as a fiery blast you can use to take out enemies 
 or light things on fire. Finally, Luigi rounds out the party with his ability to leap to massive 
 heights. Besides the unique abilities of your party members, you'll need to make use of new companions 
 known as pixls. You'll collect the creatures as you explore the various dimensions in search of 
 pure hearts. Each pixl will have a unique ability that is often key to progressing in the game. 
 For example, Boomer the bomb pixl will let you take out obstacles that impede your progress, while 
 Dottie shrinks you down to the size of an ant, which allows you to gain access to new areas or 
 slip past foes who are oblivious to you. As with the playable characters in your party, you can 
 have only one active pixl out at a time, but you can change them on the fly. The exception to this 
 rule is Tippi, who is always around. Tippi is a butterfly-like pixl who serves as your guide in 
 the game much like Navi in the Zelda games or Goombella in 2004's Thousand Year Door for the GameCube. 
 Though the adventure is new, the gameplay is familiar.
  As mentioned, the action in Super Paper Mario blends elements of a platformer and a role-playing 
 game into a unique package. The framework of the game is like a standard RPG. Though you have the 
 set goal of collecting the pure hearts, you can talk to locals in Flipside and in other towns in 
 the different chapters. These conversations lead to side quests or simply offer useful information 
 you'll need later. You'll also find various shops where you can purchase items, get your fortune 
 told, or even learn to cook. Though the town of Flipside appears to be fairly basic, once you gain 
 Mario's ability to flip and start adding more pixls to your party, you'll find there's quite a 
 bit to explore. When you set out to collect pure hearts and go through the various dimensional 
 doors, Super Paper Mario feels more like a platformer. You'll go through levels on a 2D plane, 
 whether it's running from one side of the screen to another or ascending straight up into the clouds. 
 The levels even feature various power-ups that offer new twists on familiar items. Megastars transform 
 you into a giant retro pixilated version of whichever character picks it up, while various colored 
 flowers will speed you up or slow you down. Mario's flipping ability and the various pixls add 
 a great deal of depth to the levels and make for some smartly designed and challenging puzzles. 
 Seemingly dead ends become paths to new areas when you look at them flipped or use a pixl's ability. 
 This is a very entertaining game but is only recommended to the younger ones. There is waaaayyyy 
 to much dialouge and even though its recommended for kids the kids wouldnt be bothered going thrugh 
 the dialouge and probably wont understand all of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xooco
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  While this game has been out for a few months already, I just managed to get the time to finish 
 it last night. This gorgeous 2.5D game was an incredibly fun, hearty experience made only possible 
 by the geniuses at Nintendo and Intelligent Systems.
  
  This is not your regular Mario game where you go jumping from platform to platform and thats it. 
 This game is more of a mix between platforming and RPG (role-playing game) . What does this mean? 
 It means that youll do the jumping that you are used to, but at the same time you must solve puzzles, 
 answer riddles, use a whole arsenal of different abilities and read a very well developed story.
 
  
  The games length is about 16-20 hours depending on how much time you take to figure out the puzzles 
 and try and find everything. Now for a hardcore gamer (meaning someone that only plays, doesnt 
 watch tv, reads, goes out) this could seem rather short, but for the casual player its lengthy 
 enough.
  
  On the graphics side of things the game is incredibly colorful (as you would expect from a Mario 
 game) and it has a very unique pixelated art-style, usually the term pixelated would mean something 
 bad but in this game is just beautiful. The majority of the game is played from a 2D side-scroller 
 point of view but there will be lots of instances where you need to flip to 3D in order to solve 
 puzzles or keep going forward. Thats the beauty of this game, you get to see it all in 2 perspectives 
 and you can certainly experience the cleverness of the developers while trying to solve puzzles 
 with this concept in mind. The music is very well done thought nothing spectacular and every stage 
 is different to the one before it bringing lots of variety to the table. Also you have little sidekicks 
 called pixels which will join your party and bring new abilities as you progress through the 
 game. One of the shortfalls of this game is the text, sometimes theres just too much of it! Also 
 the 3d aspect of the game seems rather bland. But all those things apart this Mario adventure doesnt 
 disappoints.
  
  Nintendo has another classic on their hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljlrj
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario statrted out as the GameCube-exclusive sequel to Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year 
 Door. It was quickly outnumbered by the next-gen system hype, and was, seemingly, completely lost. 
 It was moved silently to the Wii, Nintendos new and wonderful system.
  
  The first two Paper Mario games are a small, yet wonderful spot in the Mario universe. Both are 
 great, yet utterly simple games that became GREAT games on the Nintendo 64 and, GameCube, respectively. 
 Even more so, the first two games in the series shared more in common with Super Mario RPH: Legend 
 of the Seven Stars for the SNES, than they do with the platforming style of the core Mario titles. 
 Neither game got as much attention as it deserved because of its late arrival and departure from 
 the series core.
  
  I was disappointed when I heard of Super Paper Marios departure off the GameCubes list of upcoming 
 games. When I saw it on the Wii list, I was excited because I knew that Intelligent Systems and 
 Nintendo NEVER rush a game, even when its moved onto another console when it started on a completely 
 different console.
  
  Super Paper Mario is one of the rare games that brings back good old gaming experiences from the 
 past and mixes them with new ideas that make it a very new, and improved, experience. Its a very 
 complex game to say the least, and filled with dozens of levels and even a daring challenge called 
 The Pit of 100 Trials. Ill get their later, but first, lets talk about the gameplay and story.
 
  
  The story, while very good, seems too complex to be a Mario story. Prophecies are being told, and 
 the main villians (Count Bleck, Dimentio, Mimi, Nastasia and OChunks) are on duty to make sure 
 the Dark Prognositcuss prophecy (a dark and dim ending) comes true. Another prophecy, the Light 
 Prognositcus, holds the key to stopping the prophecy of the Dark Prognositcus coming true. Four 
 heroes will emerge and save the world by collecting eight Pure Hearts to destroy Blecks Chaos 
 Heart and stopping a vortex that is trying to swallow the world. Theres a lot of story going back 
 and forth between characters and some of it is very confusing for its own good. But, the gameplay 
 really boosts this game up.
  
  You play as Mario, Peach, Bowser and Luigi, who all have special abilities that can stop the Dark 
 Prognositcus from coming true, for they are the four Light Heroes. You start out as Mario, but 
 in the 2nd Chapter you unlock Peach, the 3rd you unlock Bowser, andumI believe the 8th (?) chapter 
 you unlock Luigi. Mario is the most significant of the four because hes the only one who can move 
 between the second and third dimensions, a very important part of the game.
  
  Marios nifty ability is also the part of the game that sets it apart from others. When you hit 
 the A Button, the game world rotates to show you hidden elements in 3D mode, other than the usual 
 2D Mario universe. It is a very clever feature, and something that makes this game clearly unclassifiable. 
 Intelligent Systems clearly understood the impact it would make on the game, because all of the 
 level designs are clever and very fun and challenging to navigate through, and the rotating dimensions 
 trick works great on every level. The designs are very clever and thoroughly thought trough. The 
 bosses are very challenging, and some are the most original boss fights Ive ever been through 
 (the Mimi spider boss fight, Im looking at you!) and the graphics are just gorgeous!
  
  Flipping to 3D can also make some of the most menacing looking enimies look like paperoh. because 
 they are! You can easily skip past them, and move on with the level. Using the Control Pad and 
 holding the Remote Classic style are only a few nods to the original Mario Bros. games on the 
 NES and SNES, while some of the level designs are clearly inspired by the old games.
  
  The sound is really absolutely nothing except music and a few grunts, but the music that is there 
 is very excellent and fits the game appropriately. The dialouge, although there is a lot of it, 
 is amusing and often hilarious. The games hilarious sense of humor and funny sequences make this 
 package an enjoyable experience.
  
  Super Paper Mario offers a deep, innovative experience and the change from Paper Marios original 
 action RPG formula to a platform-RPG hybrid is groundbreaking and much funner to use. Kudos 
 to the creators of this game because this is easily one of the Wiis best games, and the best in 
 the Paper Mario series. Despite being a paper adventure, Super Paper Mario is definitely as solid 
 as an adventure could get! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kongfufighting
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  The game draws you in with an interesting story and a hilarious opening sequence (which I wont 
 spoil for you) and sends you into an atmosphere of Interesting puzzles, Fast-Paced plot, Characters 
 beyond imagination and it being the funniest game you will ever have played.
  
  Not giving to much away, The addition of Flipping, Pure hearts, More Enemies
  than ever before 
 and a fistful of extras makes this near match to Super Mario 64 (my apologies to any offended by 
 this remark i. e Nintendo 64 owners like myself) Whether your a Mushroom Kingdom veteran or wondering 
 what in the world a Luigi is, This is possibly one of the best Wii games this year, 9.5 out of 
 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 5:39 am PT
Review:  Super paper Mario does exactly what it intends. It gives gamers a game that is not for parties 
 and not for for your grandparents. This game is one of the better ones out there for Wii. The gameplay 
 is reminiscent of old school Mario. Using bowser, peach, luigi, and mario, you will go through 
 multiple worlds in order to save them all. You will go through them to attain pure hearts that 
 will be used to defeat the evil Count Bleck. Without giving away spoilers i will say that the plot 
 is one of the better ones of the paper mario series seeming that it deals with a lot of human (or 
 koopa) emotions. The musical score feels like the remix of the old 8-bit days, this isn't a bad 
 thing. Graphics are typical paper mario. All of the worlds seem to be drawn in and sometimes become 
 drawn in as you progress. My only faults with this game is that you will often get stuck with the 
 puzzles. Boss fights will not give you to much challenge. When you do find yourself wondering what 
 you didn't do, often it will require backtracking which can get annoying. All in all super paper 
 mario is a great experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aeschinder
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Really enjoyed this game. Some of the jump moves aren't easy with the tiny controller. Your vision 
 is blocked in 3d mode sometimes and faith has to carry you through. But, so much fun to be had. 
 Lots of variety of villains. Challenging even at low levels. What I liked the most is that there 
 are usually more than one combination of moves that you can make to solve a puzzle and plenty of 
 in-game hints. Great game balance overall, too. Very good use of RPG elements without sacrificing 
 a coin-op feel. You feel like a little kid playing this game because it is full of such fun easy 
 to master moves like jumping and running. There is also great opportunity for reply as there is 
 so much that you might miss the first time through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Philipxb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  When i got this game, i just couldn't stop playing it.
  It is such a good game, and every mario fan would like it ... No, not like it... They would love 
 it!
  Is has just the right difficulty, and it take a good long time to get trough it, but not because 
 it is too long, but sometimes, it take time to figure out, how to get to the next door and stuff.
 
  I used 36 hours to complete the whole game, incl. all the extras... Yes 36 hours is quite a bit, 
 but sadly for me, those 36 hours were only spread out at 4 days, 'cause i played almost the whole 
 day, and whole night. (lol)
  Then i have to say, that this game got alot better than the other of the Paper Mario series. The 
 2 other games just ain't funny. All those turn based fight make it all so boring... Really boring. 
 And that's where it's good that this game take a long time to get through, but it's also funny 
 to do it.
  Well, anyway i just think this is a good Paper Mario game, and anyway a good Mario game, and i 
 want to give it a 9.5, because it's not perfect, but just so good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mushroomer
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  I love Nintendo, Shigeru, Mario, Zelda and everything that has to do with this franchise. I have 
 a DS and a Wii. I have been very pleased with the DS and all the games that it has to offer but 
 when it comes to the Wii, I feel let down. Super Paper Mario is not an exception to this fact. 
 I am on level 5 as of this review, but thus far, I feel like this game is missing something I can 
 not put my finger on.
  
  I bought this game because of the 8 and 9 reviews. But my first reaction to the first 10 minutes 
 of the game was that there is too much reading. I wanted to get into this 3d/2d platformer and 
 when I did, I wasn't that impressed. I will revisit this review when I beat the game if I ever 
 do, but I just wanted to let people out there know that this game could be an 8,9 but it also could 
 be a 5 to some people because of the pace and wow factor not being soo impressive.
  
  Mushroomer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsurfer200
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is possibly one of the best Mario games out there. Trust me it is definitely 
 worth it!
  
  First of all, The Story! This game has one of the best plots of all the mario games. (or even non-Mario 
 games for that manner) The story line is very deep (for a Mario game) but it still keeps the classic 
 humor and feel of the previous games. (something I find very impessive) The focus of the story 
 is not all about saving the princess from Bowser (FINALLY!!!) Instead, this game is about an even 
 more horrible villain named Count Bleck. His plan is to destroy all of the worlds. He starts by 
 forcing the princess to marry Bowser. (there is a prophecy that says when a fair princess marries 
 an evil tyrant that it will cause the chaos heart to come and destroy all worlds)
  
  Mario learns that the only way to stop the chaos heart and Count Bleck is to collect all eight 
 pure hearts. Luckily, he is not alone in this journey. Through out the game he meets these creatures 
 called Pixels that follow him and grant him special abilities. For example, Boomer allows Mario 
 to drop bombs and Thudly allows Mario to do a ground pound. You will eventully be able to do other 
 Paper-Mario tricks such as make yourself thin.
  
  Aside form the pixels, other characters join Mario on his quest, each with their own talent. The 
 first to join is Princess Peach, he ability is she can use her umbrella to jump long gaps. The 
 next to join is bowser, he can breath fire! :) The third and final person to join ismaybe I will 
 let that be a surprise Ok, now I know you are wondering about it, so I will tell you about it now. 
 Flipping from 2D to 3D! This is a genuis gameplay mechanism. (I am kind of jealous I did not think 
 of it first! ) By pressing A you can flip to 3D. You only have a limited time in 3D and if you 
 spend to long you lose health. Sometimes you have to go 3D to get through but even if you dont 
 have to you still find yourself doing it. There are hidden treasures and rooms all through the 
 game that can only be found in 3d.
  
  The series has finally turned away form turned-based battle. It is now the classic Jump on his 
 head battle style (with the added twist of having pixels to help you!)
  
  The controller is held in a odd way. You hold it sideways as if you were using a NES controller. 
 It is as cool as it sounds. If you think it sounds extremely cool! (and no, earl, I do not mean 
 locker buddy cool!) It brings back fond memories. Motion sensing is used some. For example, you 
 can point at things to hear a description and it is used with the action commands for some items.
 
  
  Overall, this is a fantastic game! My only complaint it is too short. You will finish it somewhere 
 between 16 and 20 hours. (it only took me a few days) There is quite a few things to do when you 
 are done, however. You can collect trading cards that have character pictures on them. (it makes 
 you most powerful against them) You can go treasure hunting. (there is a treasure map salesman) 
 You can make recipes. There is even a hidden casino where you can play minigames that make use 
 of the motion sensitive controller. (trust me, you want to do this!) The pit of a hundred trials 
 has even returned! (in fact there are 2 now!) But even with these you still cant help but be disappointed 
 at how quick the game moves.
  
  And so ends one of my longest reviews. This game lives up to the name SUPERPaper Mario
  
 
  [Taken from my website: http://james. iblog365. com/2007/10/20/super-paper-mario-9510/ ] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: and7883
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Overall, this is a quality game. With that being said, several adjustments should have been made 
 to make this game even more fun to play. First of all, several final bosses are take just too long 
 to beat!! It's not that they are difficult to beat or anything like that, but it literally takes 
 5 minutes or more to beat any single boss! Also, the game does a good job with hinting at where 
 you suppose to go next, but some parts in the game are so sneaky and secretive that I felt myself 
 wanting to reference a walkthrough because I had simply run out of patience.
  
  All in all, I enjoyed this game, but, I don't think I will pick it up again for a very very long 
 time (if ever) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mewmaster93
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  When i first heard of this game i was like, A platforming Paper Mario?! 
  then i saw that there was going to be RPG elements in it i was like, Atleast they are sticking 
 to the roots Then came the 2-D to 3-D part by that point i became blown away by this game that 
 when i first played it i was amazed by the detail that they put into both dimensions. The characters 
 are ones you already know.
  but here's a twist! You don't only play as Mario, but Peach, Bowser, and a fourth character! Mario is 
 the only one that can flip between dimensions, Peach can use her parasol to float over gaps and 
 to avoid taking damage, and Bowser has 2x the attack and can breath fire (along with still having 
 his comedic powers might i add) The plot is basically one of those collect the 8 pure hearts and 
 stop the end of the world plots but there is more to it if you look deep enough (Idea for a sequel 
 here.) All in all this is a game you should either buy or rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RTRGRZA
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo's posterboy made its arrival to the wii a bit earlier than expected. While we were waiting 
 for Super Mario Galaxy, Nintendo released Super Paper Mario, originally intended for the Gamecube. 
 The game is a bit of a departure from previous Paper Mario games. It's part 2-D platformer, part 
 3D platformer, part RPG. That isn't necessarily a bad thing. The story is very RPG styled. A mysterious 
 villain named Count Bleck attacks the Musroom Kingdom and sucks its inhabitants into an alternate 
 dimension, leaving Mario out. He's awaken by Tippi, a creature known as a Pixl, who teleports Mario 
 to a town called Flipside where he learns that Count Bleck is using an artifact called the Chaos 
 Heart to destroy the universe as we know it. In order to defeat him and counter the Chaos Heart, 
 Mario must find eight pure hearts. The gameplay in Super Paper Mario takes elements from platformers 
 and RPG. The combat isn't turn based anymore. Instead, its some good old fasioned Mario stomping 
 across 2D environments. But fear not, this game packs the best elements of RPG's. Everytime you 
 kill an enemy, you receive points. Level up high enough and your strentgh and health will increase. 
 As you progress, your party becomes larger, each with its own unique abilities. Mario has the ability 
 to swap between 2D and 3D, which reveal some impressive blending of both dimensions into levels. 
 This reveals some hidden items and passageways required to beat the level. Peach can use her parasol 
 to float across large gaps. Bowser is the heaviest and toughest, plus he packs strong firepower. 
 Finally, Luigi can jump the highest. You'll probably using Mario the most since he has the best 
 power. Also, along the quest, you'll be collecting Pixls, which grant you secondary powers like 
 ground-pounding, throwing, and bombing. You can also collect items to help you in battle, which 
 are activated by online instructions of moving the remote. The graphics are colorful, much like 
 the previous Paper Mario games. You control the game by holding the remote sideways, such as a 
 classic NES controller, but the developers have added some motion sensitivity to the game. If you 
 point the remote at the screen, Tippi will give you information on anything you click. Then there's 
 the items I have already mentioned. While the game may seem easy at first and short at the beginning, 
 the difficult will gradually start to increase. Another problem I had with the game is that its 
 too wordy. Sometimes you just want to start playing, but the chatty characters just won't shut 
 up. But its easy to forgive because the game is funny. If you are up for a few laughs, you will 
 find them here. Overall, this is a fine addition to the wii's lineup. It's a great blend of different 
 genres that add a new flavor to that classic Nintendo feel we all love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naimneto
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  I don't consider this a RPG , mre a plataform , it is pure NES gameplay with graphics that don't 
 give me headache and some itens. It has a awesome gameplay , like a classic Mario without the frustation 
 of being touched in the end of the level and lose, because you have a hp bar and your enemy too; it 
 even has some itens but they're pretty uselessa and the most interesting part the Pixls faeries 
 that has some combat and puzzle uses, like Carrie a hammer used most for combat and Fleep a praticaly 
 puzzle only Pixl. You can play as four characters Mario and others that youre going to see , the 
 replay value isnt the biggest but has some. The graphc simply is good to see but technicaly i dont 
 know, since is 2D. The story is pretty deep to a Mario game, the biggest that i have ever seen. Overral 
 is certainly a must-buy to anyone that had or has a SNES or NES and a GREAT game to the new gamimg 
 generations that dont know how good is the Mario jumping action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsychoPatient7
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  OK I freaking love this game. I was addicted from the moment I turned it on. It was the very first 
 Wii game I ever played and was actually the reason I bought Wii. There are so many great things 
 about this game but Id say the top three are flipping from 3D to 2D, having pixles, and being 
 able to be Bowser. How can you go wrong with a game when you can be Bowser? Answer  You cant. 
 Hes a big, strong, fire breathing machine, aka awesome. Seriously if you like Mario games get 
 this one. You wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brazenhead
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 18, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  Originally designed for the Gamecube before being quietly pushed to the Wii, Super Paper Mario 
 contains the same bright visuals and humour of the Paper Mario RPG titles before it - but for fans 
 of the previous titles, it just doesn't quite cut it.
  Understandably, with the Wii's now-huge target market, there will be plenty of people who can appreciate 
 Super Paper Mario for what it is - a fun little game. I won't bore you with the storyline, suffice 
 to say that Mario and his pals must traverse levels in a traditional platformer manner, all the 
 while solving light puzzles and fighting bosses at the end of each chapter. The game's most interesting 
 twist is the ability to switch between 2D and 3D, which is necessary for solving some occasionally 
 very clever, perspective-based puzzles. The fact that this dimension-hopping option is available 
 to the player at any time during the game and is so well realised is certainly commendable, and 
 it's an original idea that helps keep the game from being too derivative. As well as the clever 
 dimension-swapping, defeating enemies can earn you experience points that make your character tougher, 
 and the coins you collect can be used to purchase upgrades, weapons, health packs and so on. Other 
 than the platformer-style gameplay and 2D to 3D puzzling, it's all very familiar to RPG players. 
 But for those more accustomed to the Paper Mario ethic, the little things that made Paper Mario 
 so thrilling in the first place are totally lost in this iteration.
  The second Paper Mario, The Thousand Year Door, has to be one of my favourite games ever created. 
 It was a fun RPG that got rid of the needless complications that alienated all RPG newbies and 
 concentrated on delivering a game that was deep yet instantly playable at the same time. Super 
 Paper Mario for the Wii tries to continue with this idea, but rejects the turn-based battles of 
 the originals in favour of straightforward platform-based combat. And this is the problem - the 
 lines between platformer and RPG are blurred, and both feel a little underdeveloped as a result. 
 Despite the fact that Mario and chums level up automatically with each enemy defeated, you gain 
 nothing new with the exception of perhaps a longer health bar and stronger attacks. With new, tougher 
 enemies popping up every new level or so, the game's linear nature means that you'll only notice 
 how much stronger your character is when you're up against enemies you've defeated countless times 
 already. When you're so used to beating the same enemies, the fact that they take perhaps one less 
 hit to go down when you bump into them again is neither here nor there. The levelling up aspect 
 just doesn't bring much to the formula. At the same time, the platforming areas of the game are 
 cut short once they hit their stride by some underdeveloped side-quest or cut-scene, which means 
 that you'll stop appreciating the level you're currently on and become quite bored of it toward 
 the end when you're forced to trawl through it again on an otherwise fairly uneventful mission.
 
  The pacing is the biggest problem with the game - it's a platform RPG which cuts quite obviously 
 between the two, neither of which are particularly developed well, nor collaberate well with each 
 other.
  That's not to say the game is unenjoyable - the game controls wonderfully, with no loading times, 
 simple controls, and smooth movement, and regardless of the amount of times the game stretches 
 a level far longer than it needs to, occasionally you'll bump into some highly memorable moments; 
 the dating sim spoof, the very retro underwater levels - it's a great fan service to fans of the 
 original Mario games. Not only that, but the look of the Paper Mario games is captured perfectly, 
 and the graphics are absolutely flawless - smoothly animated, crystal clear - the very pinnacle 
 of 2-dimensional visuals.
  Don't get me wrong; in places, Super Paper Mario is fun, original and clever, and deserves respect 
 for adding some very original ideas to the otherwise rudimentary platform genre. However, the underdeveloped, 
 almost schizophrenic RPG and platforming elements just don't click. New gamers will appreciate 
 the simple, charming gameplay, but those that have been gaming for a long time, especially those 
 who have played the far superior Paper Mario prequels, will see right through the game's design 
 flaws and be left a little cold by a game that's a little more underdeveloped than it should and 
 could have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mighty_shark
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  This is the third Paper Mario game in the series but this one is quite different to the other ones 
 that you have played. Instead of being a straight up RPG, this game is mostly a platformer with 
 some RPG elements thrown into the mix.
  
  The storyline is actually quite different to regular Mario games, but all Paper Mario games are 
 like that. A new villain, Count Bleck, wants to destroy all worlds with the Chaos Heart which is 
 a kind of doomsday device. Mario has to collect eight Pure Hearts in order to overthrow the power 
 of the Chaos heart which will save the day for everyone. Inbetween chapters, you also follow a 
 kind of substory. Two people talk to eachother through text. You don't see their faces and you 
 don't know who they are until late on in the game. At first, you think to yourself what has this 
 got to do with anything? but it eventually does tie in with the main plot of the story.
  
  Along the way, you meet things called Pixls . These things grant you specific abilities. For example, 
 one Pixl called Boomer allows Mario to plant bombs and another Pixl called Slim allows Mario to 
 become wafer thin. These Pixls get involved in the gameplay quite a lot and help solve various 
 puzzles throughout the game.
  
  You also don't always play as the main man Mario. You eventually get to play as Princess Peach, 
 Bowser and Luigi. Each character has their own special abilities. Mario can of course flip , Peach 
 can use her umbrella to reach places over a long distance, Bowser can shoot flames out of his mouth 
 and Luigi can do a super jump.
  
  The gameplay style is quite old school but with some modern elements thrown into the mix. By pressing 
 A on the Wiimote, Mario flips between 2D to 3D, alloqing him to do things and go places that he 
 wouldn't have been able to do in simple 2D. You can only stay in 3D for a period of time though, 
 otherwise you will start to lose life. This adds a great uniqueness to this game and also adds 
 some freshness to it. Flipping can sometimes be a pain as the camera angles sometimes screw up. 
 Moving around in 3D with a D-pad is mostly fine, but can provide some problems. The RPG aspect 
 is that you get experience points for killing enemies meaning that you can level up, increasing 
 your life points and attack power.
  
  The puzzles in this game start off easy, usually just having to flip to access new locations but, 
 furthur on in the game, these puzzles become increasingly difficult and sometimes very hard. This 
 is balanced out by the core platforming sections, which are mostly easy.
  
  The graphics from a technical view, are nothing special. From an artistic point of view, I think 
 they are superb. The style is brilliant and is full of rich and vibrant colours. The music in the 
 game is good but I agree with Ricardo on this one. Mario games are known for their catchy tunes 
 and, although the songs are pretty good, you probably won't be able to remember them after playing 
 the game. The only tune you will probably remember is the Flipside song but that's only because 
 Flipside is the games HUB and you spend a lot of time there.
  
  Overall, Super Paper Mario is a great game. You won't find anything like it on any other console 
 out there. If you have a Wii and you need a new game, I strongly suggest that you buy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ngeunit1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario, from the start, is one of the best games to hit the Wii yet. The game is just 
 so much fun right from the beginning. To begin the game looks really good, not amazing but very 
 good. The paper look that has been a staple to the series really shines in this addition. All of 
 the enemies and allies, as well as the pixels fit very well into the environment and the game is 
 very polished.
  
  The gameplay is a lot of fun. The flipping dimensions is a very different element and really works 
 very well. The RPG elements, while not as strong as in older parts of the series, are still there 
 and work very well, even though they are simplistic. The only complaint about the game is really 
 that some of the middle levels feel a little repetitive and get a little boring. But parts such 
 as the sim-date experience really pick up for the slower parts and overall make a great game.
 
  
  Is it perfect, not really, but it is an example of a very good game for the Wii. Sure the controller 
 doesn't really have to act as a pointer in this game (the pointing at the screen and shaking do 
 feel a bit tacked on) , but it does make it a element of the game without making it feel overly 
 gimmicky and making it the purpose of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kunai444
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario, like the Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess, was originally a Gamecube game that 
 was moved on over to the Wii. Still, it's definitely a game we've been waiting for and definitely 
 a game worth getting a hold of. Simply put, this is one of the games Wii owners ought to want. 
 The storyline in Super Paper Mario isn't really anything special, but it's certainly one to honor 
 for its fine script and clever writing. An evil magician named Count Bleck plans on taking over 
 the world, and as Mario you'll need to stop him by finding the pieces of the purity heart that'll 
 allow you to do so. In truth, the storyline is actually really crazy, but I'd rather not give too 
 much away. It's actually a really enjoyable story Mario fans will love in the long run. The game 
 is very dialogue heavy but you'll absolutely love the dialogue. It's clever, witty, and Super Paper 
 Mario is by far the funniest game I've ever played. The characters do things like acknowledge they're 
 in a video game, poke fun at pop culture (several times over) , and internet message boards and 
 the like. It's quite a take on popular culture actually. Again, however, the game is pretty dialogue 
 heavy. At least you can enjoy it, but sometimes you really just want to get to the gameplay, which 
 is nothing short of fantastic. Super Paper Mario is truly something remarkable in terms of its 
 gameplay. For starters, the game does away with most of the RPG elements of the first two Paper 
 Mario titles, and the gameplay is more platform based than RPG based. You've still got your RPG 
 elements, such as Mario using items, having to gain experience to level up and he's got his stock 
 of HP, but for the most part, this game is more of a platformer at heart. There are no random battles, 
 there are no battle screens, and dispatching your enemies is done in the classic Mario style of 
 jumping on their heads. It plays very similar to Super Mario Brothers on the NES. However, a slight 
 problem with this kind of gameplay, is that those who were really addicted to side scrolling Mario 
 games and were used to holding down a button to run will be surprised to learn there is no button 
 to run! It's no big deal, but if you're feeling nostalgic (as you probably will playing this game) 
 it's actually something long time Mario fans may have to get used to, especially because Mario 
 doesn't move very fast. What really makes the gameplay interesting, however, is flipping between 
 the 2D and 3D perspectives. During the game you can press the A button and flip the screen from 
 the 2D world to the 3D world any time you want. Most of the time you'll be playing the game in 
 the 2D realm, but flipping the environment is more than just a crazy gimmick here. It's a necessity 
 to getting past some of the games ingenious puzzles. It's also used to get past environmental objects. 
 If a pipe is too tall for Mario to jump over, for example, then you can switch the game to the 
 3D view and simply walk around it. The enemies will also change, as the enemies faced in 2D will 
 disappear briefly while in the 3D perspective. You can't stay in the 3D perspective forever, though. 
 There's a gauge in the corner, and if it runs out, Mario will sustain damage. Still, flipping between 
 2D and 3D environments on the fly is something that's never been done in games before, and here 
 it actually works well, especially when you consider some of the games puzzles. Super Paper Mario 
 has a rather simplistic level layout. Most of them seem pretty straight-forward, but the game is 
 populated with some rather ingenious puzzles that aren't too frustrating to figure out, thank goodness. 
 You'll be going between 2D and 3D a lot in your adventure, and it's a gameplay mechanic that actually 
 works out really well for the game. The problem with the gameplay is that the game is far too easy. 
 Most enemies are easily dispatched and don't do much damage to you anyway. Even boss battles are 
 of little challenge. The boss fights are fun, at least, requiring you to fight them in interesting 
 ways, but they're still on the easy side. If you're an expert gamer, I don't predict you'll die 
 anytime soon throughout your adventure. Mario also isn't alone. He'll be joined by Peach, Luigi 
 and Bowser throughout his travels, and each of them has an ability they can do. Peach can float, 
 Luigi has a high jump and Bowser can spit fire. You can switch between them at any time, and there 
 are moments when you'll actually need a certain character to do things. However, the game relies 
 heavily on the mechanic of going from 2D to 3D and only Mario can actually do this. Despite that 
 you've got other characters, you'll still play through most of the game as Mario. Throughout your 
 adventures you'll also collect Pixls. Little fairy like creatures that give Mario and company other 
 abilities he can use. For example, early on in the game he meets a pixl that allows him to grab 
 enemies and other objects and throw them. There are several of them scattered throughout the game, 
 and they add a lot to the gameplay itself, as well as adding a lot of secrets. You'll more than 
 likely come across areas where it seems like you can do nothing. Come back with the right Pixl, 
 however, and you'll be able to do something about it. The wii remote works well with this game. 
 As noted you'll hold it like an NES controller and play the game in basically the same style you 
 played the original Super Mario Brothers. It's easy for some gamers to dismiss the Wii Motion sensor 
 controls as tacked on, being that this game was made for the Gamecube, but here I'd say they're 
 put to pretty good use. If you come across an unfamiliar enemy, for example, you can point the 
 wii remote at the screen and get some target info on him. You can also use the wii remote to uncover 
 hidden doors and passages, which is required in some spots. It's not much, but these functions 
 certainly don't feel tacked on. Rather they feel quite natural to the flow of the game itself, 
 and it's nice to be able to have a classic feel without having to shake the wii remote all the 
 time. You can use the wii remote for other things as well. Shaking it when attacking your enemies 
 makes you do a special move that'll grant you more experience,, there are some mini-games that 
 require the wii remote, but nothing in terms of the main gameplay requires heavy use of its motion 
 sensor controls. There's actually a pretty fine balance between the two. Visually, of course, the 
 game looks like a late generation Gamecube game. However, the games unique style alone warrants 
 its beauty. The 2D landscape is far better looking than the 3D landscape, though. The 2D backgrounds 
 are beautiful, and the background environments really shower a lot of detail. The same can't be 
 said for the 3D perspective. As it often looks bland and empty. Most of the level designs themselves 
 are also pretty plain. As far as platforming goes, there's nothing too intuitively designed either. 
 There's a lot of jumping, but not a lot of obstacles in your way. The focus of the gameplay seemed 
 to be far more focused on the puzzles here than the actual levels themselves. The game also sounds 
 really good. There's no voice acting to speak of, really. Which sucks for a game as text heavy 
 as this, but most gamers who've been gaming for well over a decade probably won't care about this, 
 anyway, and it's a small price to pay for the excitement you'll have with the gameplay, and the 
 humor presented from the strong and ingenious dialogue. You'll also hear some Mario tunes you've 
 heard a million times before, only they're remixed for this game. On the whole, Super Paper Mario 
 is a must own title for the Wii. It's been ingeniously designed; it's full of humor and has been 
 cleverly written. And to top it all off, it's just a lot of fun to play. Pros: +Well crafted dialogue 
 +VERY humorous game +Strikingly original gameplay elements +Simple easy gameplay to get a hold 
 of +Good music +Plenty of things to do in the game +Cleverly designed puzzles Cons: -The game is 
 far too easy for experienced gamers -3D Environments lack detail -Very dialogue heavy; it's GOOD 
 dialogue, but there are moments when you really just want to play the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic_Freak87
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2007 2:35 am PT
Review:  Man this game is fun, but anyways let's get down to it.
  it has the new addition of going from 2-D to 3-D which in my opnion.
  really adds to the depth 
 of the puzzle solving, it's nice to see something new that no one else has done before. the controls 
 are very nice and smooth just like how they should be, only problem is i was expecting a little 
 more to do with the wii's motion sensing capeabilties. but seeing as how it was pretty much ported 
 from the gamecube to the wii i'd say it's not to bad.
  
  graphics are very nice and colorful, nice backrounds nothing to outgoing or different but it looks 
 very nice and suits the game perfectly.
  The sound is kind of bland, it's alright but ehh.. kinda boring.
  could be better, but it's okay.
 
  the game itself is kind of short too, but it's very well worth playing through.
  but after you beat it, it's gonna start collecting dust on your shelve, until you feel like playing 
 through it again at least. But overall, it's a very fun game and is worth buying. we need more 
 single player games like this on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  Europe and Australia had to wait a while for Super Paper Mario to go across there, but in September 
 2007 fans finally got what they wanted after 5 months of waiting. Let me tell you this: Super Paper 
 Mario is amazing and it's a surprise how a game like this can work. This is a spoiler-free review 
 so anyone who hasn't even heard of this game can read this.
  
  THE GOOD
  It's rather neat flipping from 2D to 3D, it takes you back old-school, pretty neat puzzles in the 
 levels, Mario, Peach, Bowser and Luigi are all fully playable.
  
  THE BAD
  Aside from the 2D/3D flipping the graphics really haven't improved much from TTYD.
  
  Graphics
 
  Neat graphics. Flipping from 2D to 3D changes the graphics quite a bit and they look good too 
 in both perspectives. Aside from all this wonder and brilliance, the graphics haven't improved 
 very much from The Thousand-Year Door. I love the graphics to SPM but I think it needed slightly 
 more effort put into it.
  
  Sound
  With quirky little sound effects and neat songs, you can't really go wrong with the music in Super 
 Paper Mario. However I find it a bit too happy and it is nowhere near as good as other Mario music 
 compositions.
  
  Gameplay
  If you thought Super Paper Mario was just gonna be another turn-based RPG with a kidnapped Princess... think 
 again. Super Paper Mario is nothing like that. Think of it as a mix of the side scrolling Mario 
 platformers you played back in the 80's/90's and then blend it in with Paper Mario. It's barely 
 an RPG at all, although the EXP acts like it is. Do you remember the points you got in the old 
 Mario games? Well they are used in Super Paper Mario and they act like EXP. You will need a certain 
 amount of Points to level up, so you pretty much jump on enemies and get coins and powerups like 
 you do in the previous Mario games. There are some slight replacements though; the mushrooms that 
 make you bigger instead give you 10HP and you may find other items such as the Flame Attack which 
 allows you to flame all the enemies on screen while shaking the Wii Remote to make your attack 
 more powerful. In every chapter you're in a different location finding Pure Hearts that will unlock 
 new areas. The pedestals that contain the Pure Hearts you have to go all around Flipside to find. 
 Flipside is the main town in the game that you will go through constantly. An interesting addition 
 to SPM is the Flipping; you can flip from 2D to 3D anytime you want and you may need to do it a 
 fair bit to get places and open secret pathways. Another interesting change would have to be the 
 Pixls. They are little Pixel creatures that are pretty much equivalent to the allies that followed 
 you in the previous PM games. Every Pixl has a different ability and you should be able to find 
 them in big treasure chests. There are still the allies but this time they are fully playable and 
 their well-known Mario characters. Of course there's Mario; then there's Peach, Bowser and Luigi. 
 This is another Mario game where Bowser is on the good side for a change and the second Mario RPG 
 which allows Bowser to be an ally. Unfortunately the game doesn't use very much of the Motion-Sensing, 
 only when pointing at the screen and shaking the Mote to use power-ups. You hold the Wii-Mote sideways 
 like you do in The Secret Rings. That's all I need to say about this wonderful gameplay!
  
  Character Design
  More new characters including the Pixls and the new bad guys. That's all I 
 need to say.
  
  Storyline
  Bleh heh heh. The main antagonist has a cunning plan. He got Bowser and the Princess to marry and 
 a Dark Hole would open up. Very cunning.... indeed. Mario, Peach, Bowser and Luigi have to go destroy 
 this Dark Hole and the antagonist himself. Can they do it?
  
  Overall
  Super Paper Mario is the most creative game i've played since the original. It's a very nice game 
 that all Wii owners should play at one stage. Not the best Paper Mario game but it still is a good 
 one!!
  9/10
  
  BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chocolate1325
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  On the N64 and Gamcube the first 2 Papetr Mario games were RPG games but were good but this title 
 others something different and is more of a platformer than a RPG. Which is good because Mario 
 platformers are very good games.
  
  Story
  
  Mario and friends must stop Count Bleck and his enmies from taking over the world. Mario is sent 
 to Flipside and must collect all the Pure Hearts and stop Count Bleck.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The controls are easy to understand you do not use the nunchuck for this game just the Wii mote 
 and it works well. you hold it like a control pad. Also the buttons like 2 on the Wii ,mote makes 
 you jump and 1 lets you use a pixel. There are loads of pixls each with different abilites one 
 of them finds hidden areas, you can cross pass spikes with one of the pixl and one shrinks Mario 
 or his party members these are some of the pixls in the game but theres more. The characters Mario 
 comes across are Peach, Bowser and Luigi. All have different abilities also Peach can float with 
 her parasol, Bowser breathes fire and Luigi can jump really high . You meet them all throughout 
 the game and there moves have to be used to progress thtrough the game and also Mario can flip 
 from 2D to 3D which is needed to areas you could get to in 2D but if he stays 3D for too long he 
 will start losing HP. You meet other characters through the game like Dimento, Chunks, Mimi and Mr 
 L who you battle a these characters a few times.
  
  Graphics
  
  Well the graphics are good really but they look like the same graphics from the 2nd Paper Mario 
 game.
  
  Sound
  
  The sound is great it is nice to listen to when you play through the game nothing special but decent
 
  
  Lastabilty
  
  Well it's not that long a game about 15 to 20 hours it will probably take you to complete the normal 
 game which is a bit easy to do but there are still plenty more things to do like the pit of 100 
 trials where you face enmies all the down to 100 and you get a reward becaus then you can stay 
 in 3D when you have completed both the flopside pit of 100 trials and flipside pit of 100 trials 
 you will get reward because of that and then you can stay in 3D for when you have completed both 
 but it hard to do. There are also a few mini games you can play. somewhere in flipside.
  
  Overall
  
  It's a great title deffnitley worth it another classic Mario game and one that is 
 probably one of the best games on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: synario
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard that the next paper mario game for the wii was not an RPG and just a platformer, 
 I was bummed out. But when I bought the game and started playing, I discovered that this game is, 
 thanks to the ability to flip between 2-d and 3-d, was an inovative platformer thats loads of fun. 
 The goofy, memorable cast of characters and the witty jokes and dialogue makes the story, although 
 crony and typical mario needs to collect 8 special jewels to save the world , very fun filled . 
 The puzzles are clever and the bosses are fun and memorable. One thing I have to complain is that 
 I don't think they used the flip idea to it's fullest extent there seems to be so much more potential 
 in this idea and it seems Nintendo just scratched the surface with this game. I hope to see this 
 flip idea put into further mario games. I'd probably would have prerferred an paper mario RPG , 
 this game is still excellent and definitely one of the best wii games out there now. 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spoonful
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 4:07 am PT
Review:  There's something weirdly ironic about Super Paper Mario's delayed European launch. For a game 
 that references the 8 and 16-bit era quite so much to be hit with an inexplicable five month gap 
 between North American and European releases it's... well, it's strangely fitting. Small mercy Nintendo 
 didn't throw in the dreaded PAL borders just to keep things authentic. Luckily, Super Paper Mario 
 has been worth the extra wait, especially given the scarcity of must buy Wii titles.
  
  The most striking thing about Super Paper Mario is how different it is from the previous Paper 
 games. Both Paper Mario and The Thousand Year-Door were RPGs first and foremost, with a touch of 
 platforming thrown in. Super Paper Mario, on the other hand, is primarily a platform game with 
 RPG trappings. So out the window go the turn based battles but the characters still have hit points 
 and an inventory. Gone are the badges and in come 2D platform throwback style levels.
  
  One thing that does carry over from The Thousand-Year Door (and from other recent Mario outings) 
 is the sidelining of Bowser as the moustachioed plumber's nemesis. The poor spiky-shelled sod is 
 already playing second fiddle to Bowser Jr. in the more traditional Mario games and Super Paper 
 Mario finds him completely out-villained by the magnificent Count Bleck. Bleck is a marvellous 
 vaudeville style evil doer, with a top hat, monocle, and a penchant for referring to himself in 
 the third person. As is tradition, he's kidnapped Peach but in a perverse twist, he's also abducted 
 Bowser and forced the two to marry. This releases the Chaos Heart, which opens a void that threatens 
 the entire universe. Luckily there's a rival prophesy about a little round guy with a moustache 
 collecting eight Pure Hearts and saving all of existence.
  
  Obviously the plot is complete balderdash but it is entertainingly told balderdash. Super Paper 
 Mario is a genuinely funny game. Almost ever dialogue exchange has one bona fide laugh, with Count 
 Bleck and his minions completely stealing the show. The writing is incredibly sharp throughout 
 and gives the cooky premise gravitas and a surprising amount of emotional pay off.
  
  Between Mario and Count Bleck's downfall are eight very different worlds, each containing a Pure 
 Heart. Super Paper Mario employs an almost Zelda like structure; there's an over world, in this 
 case the town of Flipside, with the pillars needed to open the doors to the next world (the dungeons 
 if you will) scattered around it. And like Zelda, you'll pick up nifty bits of kit that'll unlock 
 ever more of the overworld and, in turn, lead to more heart pillars. The nifty bits of kit in this 
 case are the Pixls, little fairy spirit things with specific skills and pun-tastic names. Fleep, 
 for example, flips around parts of the scenery. Carrie turns into a platform that will carry you 
 over obstacles. Throeau can... well, you can work it out for yourself. The Pixl you'll spend the 
 most time with is Tippi, who acts as your guide throughout the name, dispensing advice on each 
 world and its contents. Super Paper Mario is played holding the Wii-mote sideways, with 2 used 
 to jump and 1 activating whatever Pixl is in the active slot. Pointing the remote at the screen 
 brings up a cursor, with Tippi dishing out the dirt on the things you highlight.
  
  The Pixls are the key to solving some of Super Paper Mario's puzzles but others depend on the skills 
 your party members are packing. Initially Mario will be running around all on his lonesome but 
 eventually he picks up Peach, Bowser, and Luigi. Peach brings her parasol to the fight and can 
 use it to glide long distances, Bowser can burn things with his fiery breath, and Luigi makes a 
 bold attempt to break away from his general uselessness by being able to jump really high. Mario 
 himself has the most important power: the ability to flip from 2D into 3D.
  
  Flipping to 3D works pretty much as you'd expect; instead of running from left to right, you're 
 now running into the screen. The novel part is that some things stay in 2D, so there's almost a 
 stage scenery feel to the backdrops, as you find that the trees, bushes, and even the enemies are 
 only a pixel wide. Flipping between the dimensions is a major part of Super Paper Mario and is 
 often key part of moving forward through the levels. Early on in the game you'll run into pipes 
 and blocks that are just too tall for Mario to jump. Flipping into 3D reveals that there's a path 
 around them. Or, you may run into a sheer cliff face. Jumping to 3D will reveal that there are 
 steps cut into the rock. Unfortunately, going between dimensions isn't entirely pain free. In the 
 3D view, the camera is fixed facing 'forward' through the level. So, say that the exit from an 
 area is a pipe hidden behind a bush, if you run past it there's no way to pan the camera around 
 to check. So you either run back towards the camera and risk hitting hidden baddies or falling 
 down pits that you couldn't see until it was too late, or running back through the level switching 
 to 3D every so often. Also, trying to land a head stomp in 3D is trickier than it should be. It's 
 surprisingly tough to line up with the enemies. They're not massive flaws by any means but they 
 do detract from the mechanic.
  
  Super Paper Mario's levels were quite clearly built around the 2D to 3D flipping ability and it's 
 used in some incredibly creative ways. There are plenty of 'Mario moments' throughout  points 
 where you just have to stop and appreciate in the ingenuity in the level design. The problem is 
 that these moments essentially dry up after the first four worlds. It's tough to say whether it's 
 just that the 3D tricks get old or if there's a genuine dip in quality, but later sections of the 
 game really drag. The levels adopt an almost maze like quality and you'll often find yourself running 
 through the same areas five or six times before the solution dawns on you. At some points there's 
 an inescapable feeling of being lost, which is never a word you'd readily associate with a Mario 
 game. It's not horrifically bad level design but putting Mario in 2D and having him leap from platform 
 to platform carries a certain pedigree, and Super Paper Mario falls short.
  
  The level design may take a nose dive but the art design certainly doesn't. Super Paper Mario retains 
 the cartoony comic book look that defines the series; it's not a stunning technical masterpiece 
 but it doesn't aim to be. It's a strong but simple approach that looks great and nails the kids 
 book come to life style. The levels look phenomenal, with 8bit Land in standing out in particular; 
 the whole stage looks as if it's been built using Picross. There's no voice acting in the game 
 but the characters do make the occasional yelps or roars. The music tips its hat quite firmly to 
 the older games, with a lot of the music rejigged versions of the more memorable themes. None of 
 the new music is as catchy as the older stuff though.
  
  Super Paper Mario has a lot going for it. The 2D to 3D flipping is unique, the 2D platform approach 
 treads just on the right side of retro, the graphics are charming, and it's a hilarious romp. The 
 camera niggles are just that; tiny niggles that can be worked through. The later level design is 
 a much bigger problem and the game's pace really can suffer but arguably that's because it's in 
 such sharp contrast with the fantastic early stages. By taking the Paper Mario series and shifting 
 it towards the classic Mario gameplay, Intelligent Systems fall between two stools. Super Paper 
 Mario never hits the RPG peaks set by The Thousand Year Door and it never quite manages to emulate 
 the platform hi-jinks of the plain old Super Mario series. But it does come damn close. And it's 
 a remarkably enjoyable adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Charchar4587
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 2:35 am PT
Review:  This game is great, i mean its Mario ffs. Obviously, the graphics are lacking since this is the 
 Wii, but they're still good, although very cartoony. The game does lead you along as much as it 
 can, the only difficult part of the game is finding the heart pillars, takes awhile to find them 
 if you dont know what you're doing.
  
  The gameplay is great, same mario style platforming, but with a 3D twist. I would have liked to 
 see Peach, Bowser, and Luigi be able to flip into the 3D. Also the mansion level where you have 
 to work off the Rubee's can be a big time waster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danngerus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  This game could have been awesome if it was more like older Mario games from the NES and GameBoy. 
 The RPG elements ruin this game so much. The game can be divided in thre chunks: playing, backtracking 
 and reading. I'll go through each of these points.
  Playing: although it isn't boring it could have been better. I was hoping it would be like the 
 older games (a platformer where timing was key and enemies would jump around and get in your way) 
 with puzzle elements to open doors or activate a machine for example. Instead you are basically 
 walking around most of the time going through so many doors, especially in the 'maze' levels, and 
 sometimes just doing really boring things like spin a wheel for god knows how much time to make 
 electricity, defeat around 20 dull 'Samu-guys' in a row, walk down an empty world for some time 
 doing nothing but walking, etc... Backtracking: this was annoying, you are constantly walking through 
 doors trying to find items or switches to then go back where you came from and going through other 
 doors, again and again. And everytime you finish a world you have to walk for the milionth time 
 through Flipside to activate the door for the next level.
  Reading: and there's tons of it. The gameplay is constantly paused because someone has to tell 
 you where to go, what to fetch, whats going on, who they are, why you are there or simply telling 
 you some random thing. This happens all the time! When you enter a world, when you finnish a world, 
 when you return to flipside, when you find a Pixel... SHUT UP ALREADY.
  Don't get me wrong, the game is great. Some great gameplay (when you're not backtrcking or talking) , 
 interesting art styles and clever uses of the pixels. But i can't help but feel let down by this 
 game. This could have been so awesome if the pace wasn't sooooo slow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soldjango
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is far from what the first two paper marios are. Instead of being a straight-up 
 RPG, this game is a 2d/3d platformer infused with RPG elements. Enough with the introductory stuff. 
 Time to talk about my newest category; Story!
  
  Story 9/10
  
  The story is one of the elements taken from true RPGs, in that it's an elaborate tale full of twists 
 and turns. The main plot without spoiling anything is that the end of the world is being brought 
 about just like everyone thought it would. Bowser and Peach have married. Keep in mind this is 
 not a willing marriage, as the antagonist known as Count Bleck- complete with the cane, monacle, 
 top hat, the works- found an evil book called the Dark Prognosticus which contains secrets not 
 meant for mortal eyes (it tells the future. Duh) and influences events to have the end result be 
 what is told in the book. This process creates a chaos heart which is the cause of the end of the 
 world. Now Mario must find pure hearts to counteract the chaos heart and -in true RPG fashion- 
 save the world. It's cool, although not as original as I hoped.
  
  Gameplay 9.5/10
  
  Because of the unique style of gameplay, I've had to splice this section into three parts, titled 
 2D,3D, and general
  
  General
  Near the beginning, Mario gains the ability to switch between the 2d plane and the 3d plane. This 
 mechanic is key to solving puzzles, finding secrets, getting around obstacles and avoiding enemies. (not 
 that you want too) The RPG elements show themselves quickly as you see you and your enemies have 
 HP, and the score in other mario games, which counts your score-obviously- and doubles as your 
 exp. When you get enough points you level up which will either increase your HP or make you do 
 an additional point of damage. You can also find catch cards which are cards that if you have the 
 card of a certain enemy will make you do more damage to that enemy. There are also many items in 
 the game what range from expected to awesome. Such as the megastar, which will transform the active 
 character into a giant pixilated version of the sprite that appeared in Super Mario 1. As stated 
 above, there are more than one playable character. Mario, Peach, Bowser (in his third time EVER 
 being playable) and Luigi (woah, didn't expect that one) Each character has a special ability. Mario 
 flips between 2d and 3d, Peach uses her parasol to float and block attacks, Bowser breathes fire, 
 and Luigi can jump high and far. (wait, doesn't Mario do that too?) Replacing the partners of the 
 past Paper Mario games are pixls. The pixls each have an ability that you can make use of. Some 
 of the abilities include butt-stomping, turning sideways (think PM2) , and throwing things.
  
  2D
  The 2D portion-which you spend most of the game playing in-plays like any of the side scrolling 
 Mario games of past. You run, jump and well... run and jump through the level on a sideways plane. 
 Not much else to say.
  
  3D
  When in the 3D perspective, there are enemies that will only be visible in the 3D mode, and there 
 are items or switches that can only be reached in this mode. In fact, the 3d mode is key to some 
 platforming areas and solving puzzles. For example there could be a switch in front of a block 
 and the only way to hit it would be to go into 3D mode and go in front of the block and jump on 
 it. There are some sketchy camera issues every once in a while in the 3D perspective, but other 
 than that it's a solid mechanic thats fun, easy to use and makes exploring the levels have more 
 depth.
  
  Graphics &amp; Sound 9/10
  
  The graphics are in no way pushing the wii hardware, or even the gamecube hardware, but looks very 
 nice anyway. Because of the papery look of the game, its not hard to smooth the edges, and there 
 really isnt any jagged edges to speak of. On the audio front, is where the 9/10 came from. While 
 the music is catchy and the entire soundtrack over all, is nice but a bit dated. There arent any 
 new songs, just tracks from old games. This isnt to say the songs are bad, but it wouldnt have 
 killed them to make some tracks as cool as the traditional theme song. (Yeah right, nothing stands 
 up to that in terms of classic-ness)
  
  Overall 9/10
  
  Overall Super Paper Mario is a game that is a must buy for any self-respecting wii owner. The change 
 back to standard Mario side scrolling action is a good choice, especially when the RPG roots show 
 themselves and compliment the game nicely. The game probably isnt the game to make you buy a wii 
 but if you have around $60 turning a hole in your pocket, get this game. GET IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fang_lord
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  The highly anticipated SPM is here! And as usual, i have a full review ready.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Sweet and styled, just like all the other Paper Mario's, but fine tuned and look 
 better than the GC's paper Mario. Loads of variety in the locations you go, but allot of the npc's 
 you meet are block heads, which i think is stupid, and personally, i love weird, non generic games, 
 but this is just ridiculas, you there is few characters that are like Mario... which is greatly 
 disappointing. SOUND
  
  Cool sound track, no voice acting, which is expected. Although there is some sounds coming from 
 the characters which stops long silences. Not much else to say really.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Its basically like you Super Mario Brothers. Your Mario (or peach, bowser, or Luigi) and you jump 
 on things till they die. Sounds boring, but mario vets no and love this. The added twist is that 
 everything you kill adds EXP which helps you level up which in turn make you stronger. Another 
 cool thing is if you jump on something, then shake the wii mote, you get ranked, and gain more 
 exp and do some cool tricks which you can try and get loads to gain records and stuff. With the 
 addition of Bowser and peach, you can attack in different ways, eg. bowser uses flame breathe, 
 for more dmg.
  
  Another cool thing is the Pixls, which are small little allies, that alow you to do certain things, 
 like use a bomb, go paper thin, flip certain areas to see new doors or gain items. The most obvious 
 pixl is the FLIP pixl, that allows you to flip the entire world into 3d, which helps you solve 
 puzzles, this is only used by Mario. The same pixl can also 'scan' things to find weakness's, which 
 helps you kill things obviously. The problem with this is, it restricts the use of other characters. 
 I love using bowser, but tbh, he is useless, as he cant flip into 3d, which means you cant solve 
 certain/the majority of the puzels, as only Mario can use that Pixl/ability. You go into a huge 
 variety of stages, ranging from dungeons, to rocky hill side, to space etc. This is a good thing, 
 but some places are just horrible and o personally HATED playing through them. These include cube 
 land, and the space level. Cube land just looks bad graphically, as EVERYTHING is made up of tiny 
 little squares like on squared paper. And the space level is frustrating and has some sort of asteroid 
 style game play aspect to it, which is just bad imo. The Boss fights are usually really fun, and 
 challenging, but there isn't many of them, which is a problem, it also isn't a very long game. 
 There is the Grinding dungeons as found other paper Mario games, but i got bored of them, and the 
 rewards are stupid, and/or pointless. Although, some are really cool, like hidden pixls. OVERALL
 
  
  Defiantly a disappointment for me, but i would still recommend it to anyone interested in a Unique 
 RPG platforming experience.
  
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKoop
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  Paper Mario has been around since the days of the N64 so next to Smash Bros it probably makes it 
 one of the newer Mario franchises and it carries that RPG element that maybe was missing from a 
 standard Mario title. The difference is that SPM Mario has depleted most of these RPG elements 
 weve come to expect from a Paper Mario game, like turn-based battles instead SPM has moved back 
 to real time battling like the old 2-D platformers and its been gladly accepted by me anyway.
 
  
  The graphics of the game are everything Id of expected from a Mario title, the bright colours 
 of the landscapes are there ready to blind you like every Nintendo title does oh so well. The appearance 
 and set out of the game works fantastically as you set out on a quest trying to retain the Pure 
 Hearts back from the evil that is Count Bleck, but be warned dont expect absolute crispness thats 
 not what has been aimed to achieve same goes for previous titles in the genre. The gameplay of 
 SPM is tremendous as it makes use of the Wii-remote well as you flip it sideways and use it like 
 an old school NES pad which is comfortable especially for such a lengthy game. Sound wise its 
 all the typical Nintendo sounds and theme tunes which unless youve always been a fan, you may 
 find it a little bit irritating but it ties in with the style of the game really quite well. I 
 find SPM to be a good step up from its predecessors albeit its not as long but I found that 
 was due to the turn based battle system being dropped as fights and boss fights can be achieved 
 much quicker than usual. I would recommend SPM to any Wii owners looking for a lengthy adventure 
 with Mario, Peach and Bowser
  
   Oh and Luigi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenny789
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2007 3:23 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is one of the first mario games to appear on the Wii. As you might have guessed, 
 this is the 3rd game in the Paper Mario series. The story is kind of like the other Mario games, 
 the Princess gets kidnapped and it's up to the red plumber to rescue her yet again. What sets this 
 game apart from the other Mario games is the 2D/3D platforming. Later on in the game, Mario gets 
 a special item that helps him alter the way he sees the world. You can switch from 2D to 3D anytime 
 in the game but you can't stay 3D for long or else Mario will get damaged. This is a very unique 
 and interesting feature in the game and it helps a lot in puzzle solving and the sort. RPG elements 
 are in the game as well but unlike the past Paper Mario games, you fight enemies in real time. 
 No more turn based fighting which is a shame but that's what makes the game different. It also 
 has the Mega Mushroom type effect from New Super Mario bros. which makes your character grow as 
 big as the screen and their sprites turn into their old ones back from the old Mario game.
  
  The graphics in this game aren't excellent but they are clean and nice to look at. I haven't 
 got any complaints about the graphics in this game aside from some worlds looking a bit plain and 
 the 3D view of the world is bland. They could've made the worlds a little bit more exciting and 
 fun but it's not that bad.
  
  Sounds in the game are one of the better parts of the game. The music is nice to listen to and 
 has that Mario feel to it. It also suits the game very well especially the music when you grow 
 big, really nice. One problem I have with the sound is that when you're low on health, there's 
 a repeated beeping sound. At first it's alright but after a while it starts to get on your nerves. 
 Aside from that, no problems.
  
  Super Paper Mario is definitely worth the price tag. All in all, it will keep you busy for a while 
 and it is a good single player experience on the Wii. If you're looking for a hard and long game, 
 this game may not be worth it because it's a really easy game and that can make the game short. 
 If you manage to find this game cheap then I suggest you grab it right away.
  
  All in all, I had a great time playing Super Paper Mario and it's one of the best single player 
 experiences I had on the Wii. The graphics are clean and nice to look at and the sound suits the 
 game very well. The only major problem is that I found it too easy and I managed to breeze through 
 the game without any problem but even though it's short, I still recommend anyone who hasn't picked 
 this game up to get it and if you manage to find it at a cheaper price then grab it straight away. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - Instead of the usual RPG formula of paper mario , it's a side scroller with faster battles. 
 Atlhough leveling up isn't as big as it was in the first two Paper Mario's - it still has some 
 recurring features. You often are figuring out puzzles by rotating the level around - or just trying 
 to guess paterns. Although some parts of the game can get extreamly hard you can always look up 
 a walkthrough online. The story is pretty fun to go through - although not one of the best in mario 
 history. You still collect powers and partners as well : but there is hardley any use for your 
 partners since Mario contains the majority of powers you need to get through the game. Graphics 
 - Although kind of similiar to the second paper mario - this paper mario is alot more squared looking 
 , and relies on my hard edges instead of curves. One could argue it's lazy : but it's still fun 
 to look at. Length - There is only a single player mode , you could go back later and beat it again 
 : but chances are that you won't for awhile . There are some parts of the game that drag on really 
 long and are boring it seems just put in there because the game was short. Good Tilt - Although 
 it dosen't take full advantage of it's features - it's still a good idea for a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFoxA
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is almost as good as the previous Paper Mario games. Key word: ALMOST.
  
  Super Paper Mario's storyline is excellent. One of the best aspects of this game, in my opinion. 
 Peach is kidnapped by Count Bleck in a trick marriage between her and Bowser, creating an evil 
 substance called the Chaos Heart. Mario must collect the Pure Hearts before the universe is completely 
 destroyed by the corruption caused by the Chaos Heart. Filled with twists and turns -- and an exciting 
 side story involving Tippi (major spoilers if I tell you what the side story is about) -- Super Paper 
 Mario's story is guaranteed to satisfy you. If you're craving a storyline, this is the game to 
 buy.
  
  Super Paper Mario's gameplay is slightly lacking. Don't get me wrong, it's still extremely fun. 
 It just seemed that the HEART of Paper Mario was missing. And that is the RPG elements. In this 
 game, you still level up and gather items like a traditional RPG, but this game is more like a 
 2D/3D sidescroller. Speaking of 3D, one of the things that made the gameplay maintain its fun is 
 an exciting new ability. Mario can now flip between 2D and 3D. This allows a lot more puzzles, 
 but it also solves a lot more puzzles. Can't figure out what to do? Flip. Tons of enemies? Flip. 
 Can't find a boss' weakness? Flip. And so it continues. Nonetheless, this game is still very fun.
 
  
  The Paper Mario graphic style returns in this sequel. The graphics are very stylized, not real 
 looking, but more cartoon looking graphics. I like the style because the developers can focus more 
 on the gameplay than the graphics. Also, it feels like I'm playing a drawing other than a video 
 game. As in all the previous Paper Mario games, I loved the graphical style.
  
  If you're a fan of Mario or Nintendo in general, this is one game that you shouldn't miss. For 
 those of you that haven't played the previous two games, it's not a requirement to play them before 
 getting this game. This game is only inspired by the other two games. So, if you don't have this 
 game, and you have a Wii, this is one of the best titles out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenevolentEnemy
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2007 3:02 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is a fantastic demonstration of both the Wii's capabilities and Nintendo's ethos, 
 gameplay before graphics, which is great. At the same time, though, it highlights something that 
 many of us would rather ignore. The Wii seems to be spawning horribly cutesy kiddy games; I'm quite 
 sure that's how it seems to many people anyway.
  
  People older than the age of five should feel embarrassed when playing this game, it's like watching 
 Nick Jr. or some horrible little kiddy show on the box. However that does not mean five year olds 
 could play this game at all; it's an RPG, and that means TEXT. Kilometres of corny, kiddy text 
 (in a horrible juvenile font) that the game expects you to read. Then there's the puzzles and the 
 menuses, etc. No kid I know could possibly grasp these mechanics. So WHY, Nintendo? WHY would you 
 make this fantastic game with a fanastic concept almost unbearable kitsch? The amount and quality 
 of dialogue, mediocre storyline and unnecessary character development hurts us, and the reputation 
 of the console (to non-Wii-owning, mature gamers) . Would it kill you to have a more dynamic soundtrack, 
 too?
  
  As for the 3D, it could have been better. It's hard to navigate in 3D because of the camera angle 
 making it hard to see and judge distances. It is IMPOSSIBLE to fight enemies in 3D, as your health 
 will periodically reduce (stunning you for your enemy to take a free shot) and you will hardly 
 ever hit your enemy, because of camera problems. Luckily for the enemy, his AI has no trouble with 
 beating the crap out of you with high accuracy while you are still struggling to judge how far 
 away he is. Advice: Your jumps will always miss, use the Bomb Pixl (Boomer, AoE attack) and at 
 least you can hit people. It shouldn't be so hard.
  
  Puzzle aspects are the highlight of the game, along with battling. However the puzzle solutions 
 are, at times, seemingly illogical and some of the problems you'll face are made harder by the 
 fact that you couldn't be stuffed sifting through the crappy dialogue in the previous cinematic, 
 looking for something to tell you what to do next that may not even be there, and instead just 
 spammed 2 to get to the actual good stuff: the gameplay. The puzzles are deceptively tricky, and 
 solving one or finding one of the prolific secrets of the game gives you a really good feeling, 
 everything is rewarded appropriately.
  
  Battle is, for the most part, too easy. I didn't have any problems until chapter 6 or 7, when some 
 of the enemies started doing obscene damage quite quickly and you have to start actually paying 
 attention to what is going on. Boss battles are an absolute joke, ALL OF THEM. So very easy.
  
  Character customisation is completely gone. Bye-bye to badges, FP, BP and choosing what to 
 improve at level up. It is hardly an RPG, yet it isn't as bad as it sounds. The RPG-esque elements 
 mean that killing enemies, rather than avoiding them, is rewarding and more fun. The game is more 
 actually like Super Mario, with some Paper aspects, which better suits my tastes as a more action 
 orientated gamer. It no longer implies that you are reading a book in any way, unlike the previous 
 titles in the Paper series, which is refreshing.
  
  These problems definitely sound much worse than they are, don't worry. I love the game, I just 
 feel that improvements could be made to the battle system (MAKE IT HARDER, or put in difficulty 
 levels or something) , the storyline/dialogue/character development (REMOVE MOST OF IT, it's Mario, 
 I couldn't give a crap about Tippi and the worlds and stuff. I don't need to know the WHY, at least, 
 not so extensively) , the game's appearance (MAKE IT DARKER, less pastel and more blood) and the 
 3D/Flipping mechanic (Don't ask me how, but it definitely needs work. Stop it damaging him at least) .
 
  
  The gameplay saves the game and is the only reason to buy it. The fact that I have just typed so 
 much about it should tell you how obsessed I am about this game, although where some say quirky, 
 I say tasteless and kiddy. Worth the money, and I'm betting that after the storyline, the two Pits 
 of 100 Trials and hidden collectables, etc. are going to keep me playing for many hours yet. Also, 
 Peach, Bowser and Luigi as playable characters are welcome additions (I would have liked more but... 
 still good) .
  
  Hours: Storyline ~ 20 hrs, If you read all the text ~ 20 BAZILLION hrs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apardi1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  What others have said about this game, I will probably have to agree. It was fun at first, but 
 got tedious. I wish you can flip using other characters. And maybe the use of more characters. 
 Where's yoshi or toad? Where the heck is WARIO? Its a good Mario game that definitely needs a sequel. 
 But here are some good points bout the game. Ease of use with the control. Takes me back to my 
 NES days with the twist of motion sensing. Story is somewhat intriguing, you almost know what is 
 happening but has those convenient twist and turns that make you want to finish the game.
  
  I do have to say that this is my Mario fix b4 I get Mario Galaxy. I will wait for a sequel 
 and hope it fixes all the gripes others have posted about this game. Please please let the other 
 characters flip!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobtheflounder
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario expertly combines 2D side-scrolling gameplay with RPG elements and the charming 
 graphical style we've come to know from the Paper Mario series. It also introduces the ability 
 to switch from 2D to 3D on the fly which makes exploring levels more involving and puzzles become 
 slightly more complex than the average Mario game. Overall, it's a great game which is to be expected 
 from the guys at Nintendo, but it becomes apparent after a while that the person responsible for 
 level design for the second half of the game hates fun and wants to make people suffer. I say this 
 slightly for humor but mostly because it is true. The first three levels are excellent and the 
 third level in particular is one of the best I've ever experience. The theme of this level mocks 
 nerd culture and does so perfectly while also mixing in levels modeled after classic levels from 
 Super Mario Brothers. It's something that any Mario fan should experience. The game peaks at this 
 point and then takes a giant spiral down the path of annoying fetch quests and annoying repetition. 
 On one level some guy asked me to say please in order to proceed. This meant that I had to actually 
 type in the word please . But for this person, once was not enough. I had to type in the word not 
 once, not twice, but 6 freakin' times! Another level required me to be teleported back to the beginning 
 so that I could get a book for someone. Then I had to travel the whole level all over again. If 
 that wasn't enough, another person immediately asked me to do the same thing again. I have many 
 more grievances of a similar nature, but I will spare you the monotony of reading about them. Basically, 
 the game starts to force you into too much backtracking and time-wasting tasks that sap all of 
 the fun had during the first third of the game. Still, Super Paper Mario is one of the better games 
 on the Wii right now and worth playing if for nothing else but nostalgia's sake. Just be prepared 
 for some frustrating moments surrounded by an overall enjoyable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garygok
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  This review is coming from someone who took the time to play through the game. I spent about 25 
 hours beating it, but about halfway through I started losing interest.
  
  Super Paper Mario is a well done child friendly title, I just found that it was geared at an audience 
 a little younger than myself. Die hard Mario fans will probably love this game.
  
  Simple but effective controls will have you holding the remote sideways and allow you to jump into 
 the game quite easily. The nunchuck is not used in this game.
  
  There is motion sensing though in the form of nifty little moves you can do while in the air after 
 bouncing off an enemy by wobbling the remote. This is a good way to earn points. There is also 
 other neat things like having to tilt your remote along with the on screen prompt to get a healing 
 item to activate.
  
  Very interesting visual style with alot of stuff you'll remember from the old games... with a Wii 
 twist on it of course. Switching between 3D and 2D also offers some neat visuals and is quite fluent 
 as you will find yourself having to flip quite often to expose that secret path.
  
  There are a lot of puzzles to solve as you try and advance through the game, and many of them are 
 quite challenging. In fact, there is more puzzle solving than arcade action.
  
  While playing through the game there is extra stuff to do like collecting cards for most of the 
 enemies in the game. These cards increase your damage against that foe
  
  All sorts of funny little sidekicks called Pixls. You'll find many of these but some remain largely 
 unused as there a a couple whose use is quite constant. You can point your remote at the screen 
 to have your main pixl examine the area which may reveal something hidden and allow you to progress.
 
  
  Boss fights are pretty good though not too hard. You may spend a couple of HP figuring out a strategy 
 or weak spot, but once you do it's usually just a couple hits before its over.
  
  You can switch between playable heroes to try and overcome obstacles. Each has their advantage 
 such as being able to flip into a 3D plane, an increased jump distance or a powerful fire based 
 attack.
  
  Descent storyline though the presentation got a little trying on my patience. There's quite a bit 
 of dialogue to scroll through and a good portion of it is just nonsensical having nothing to do 
 with the actual plot. There is definitely good humor though, going beyond just making fun of Mario's 
 age and mustache.
  
  In the end, the rpg elements just hindered the game play as you will spend time between chapters 
 restocking items and trying to find how to open the next location. I felt it was more detrimental 
 to the flow of the game than anything else.
  
  There is a bit of replay value in the game in that once you play through once, you have the ability 
 to continue on and explore the world you just played through. I, however, doubt that I will ever 
 pick up this game and play it again.
  
  So this title is a descent game in it's own right, and I'm sure there are many people who will 
 and have enjoyed this title very much. I would just suggest that maybe the older crowd would want 
 to rent it first just to see if it's something they can get in to. The kids, however, are sure 
 to love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squal132
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2007 10:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing on of the best rpgs I have ever played in a while. I really like how you can 
 now turn into 3-D. The new fighting style is cool but I like the old version better but this is 
 good too. I dont like how the only friends you can get in this game are only pixels. I liked it 
 more when you could get actual people than these computer people. This game I did find humorous 
 especially world 3 with Francis haha he makes me laugh! So this game is a very fun game and a long 
 one but it is easy in my opinion. So I would buy this game if you really like RPGs like me and 
 unlocking somewhat a lot of people in your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PAJ89
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  The latest instalment of the Paper Mario franchise captures a beauty similar to the paper-folding 
 art of origami; a mixture of vibrant colours, abstract design, and mind-boggling use of 2D and 
 3D contributes to this, but dont think Super Paper Mario is a one-trick pony. The side-scrolling 
 action of the classic Mario games, combined with light RPG elements of the Paper Mario sub-franchise, 
 complement each other marvellously.
  
  In a refreshing twist, it isnt Bowser who has kidnapped Princess Peach, but a new villain with 
 his own troupe of troublemakers. The mysterious Count Bleck is the culprit; in an attempt to fulfil 
 a dark prophecy that will end all worlds, he kidnaps Princess Peach and orchestrates a marriage 
 between her and Bowser (its a strange prophecy) . Naturally, Mario doesnt take kindly to this 
 and crashes the wedding. No match for the powerful Count Bleck, the moustached plumber gets knocked 
 unconscious and wakes up in the town of Flipside, a gateway to all dimensions. Its here that Mario 
 learns of the pure hearts, powerful items that will allow him to stop the dark prophecy and thwart 
 Count Bleck. With this knowledge, Mario sets out on a dimension-hopping quest to save all worlds 
 from certain destruction.
  
  In case youre unfamiliar with the series (or you didnt get the hint in the title) , Mario and 
 friends are all paper-thin in a 3D world. The contrast between 2D characters and 3D environments 
 is amazing, and the art direction in general is equally impressive. Viewing familiar environments 
 from past games is great, but the new places that Super Paper Mario has added to the universe are 
 a real treat. Some of these locales include the Bitlands, a blocky tribute to the Mario games of 
 old, and the lair of Count Bleck, which uses an abstract black &amp; white colour scheme to create 
 an intimidating atmosphere. Super Paper Marios visuals are a meeting of the old and the new, and 
 theyre definitely one of its most defining features.
  
  Super Paper Marios general theme matches its visual style: its fun, its colourful, and it doesnt 
 take itself too seriously. Although there is no voice acting (excluding the occasional Wa-hoo! 
 sound-byte) , the script is very well written. The Paper Mario games have a reputation for humorous 
 dialogue, and Super Paper Mario keeps it up. The script would be nothing without good characters 
 though. You all know what to expect from Mario and company, but the new personalities are great. 
 The dastardly Count Bleck has a tendency to refer to himself in the third-person, and his bearded, 
 gung-ho henchman OChunks likes to smash things. Perhaps the best new character is Francis, a chameleon 
 who is your typical computer geek type. The chapter that revolves around him is great fun thanks 
 to his over-the-top, stereotypical character.
  
  Mario is primarily controlled with the Wii remote positioned horizontally. For the most part, youll 
 be in familiar territory if youve ever played a Mario game. You run through the level, jumping 
 gaps and jumping on goombas, until you reach the end and progress to the next. It isnt always 
 that simple in Super Paper Mario. Therell be times when it looks impossible to progress. What 
 now? Flip, thats what! At the press of a button, you can flip the action into three-dimensions. 
 This is so often the key to reaching a previously inaccessible platform, or avoiding death where 
 it seemed inevitable. Its all well and good reading about this, but youll still be blown away 
 the first time you flip dimensions. You cant stay 3D forever though, as your flip meter continually 
 runs down (youll lose health if you remain in 3D after the meter is fully depleted) .
  
  The various boss characters you encounter are made more enjoyable thanks to the flip ability. Just 
 as you need it to progress through a level, some bosses need to be beat down in three-dimensions. 
 That isnt to say every boss needs flipping, though. There are a good number of old-skool battles 
 that the purists will enjoy; all youll need is your trusty jump attack and the ability to recognise 
 attack patterns. Both kinds of boss battles are fun, but they tend to be a little on the easy side.
 
  
  The flip mechanic is employed extremely well, but it isnt without its faults. There are times 
 where youll find yourself standing around for the flip meter to refill; these unwelcome pauses, 
 though few and far between, break up the action. The more pressing issue is controlling Mario in 
 3D. Again, these instances are uncommon, but gauging distance when making a jump can be difficult 
 due to the camera. The d-pad, which is better suited for 2D gameplay, doesnt help in these instances. 
 It has its flaws, but flipping is still a fantastic feature and there is no doubt that Super Paper 
 Mario is better off with it.
  
  Mario is joined on his quest by a number of familiar and unfamiliar characters. Youll eventually 
 be able to switch between Mario, Luigi, Peach, and Bowser. Mario is the typical all-rounder and 
 is the only one that can flip; Luigi has the largest leap of all the characters; Peach can use 
 her parasol to glide from platform to platform; and Bowser can breathe fire to scorch his foes. 
 The unfamiliar characters I spoke of are the pixls, small creatures who can grant you special 
 abilities. Tippi is the first one youll meet and is constantly active. By pointing the Wii remote 
 at the screen, you can get information from Tippi about enemies and items you point at. You can 
 use one more pixl at a time, and their abilities are assigned to the 1-button. For example, Slim 
 allows you spin ninety degrees so you are paper thin, letting you squeeze through tiny gaps and 
 become immune to damage when standing still. Other pixls give you abilities like the ground-pound, 
 item grab, and setting down a bomb.
  
  Pressing the 1- and 2-buttons at the same time brings up a menu where you can switch your active 
 character and pixl. You can also use items from this menu; some, like the shroom shake healing 
 items, can be used straight away, but others have action commands that use the Wii remote. For 
 example, when you use a thunderbolt, you are prompted to shake the remote as quickly as possible 
 to maximise damage. For the most part, the attacking items are a novelty, but the pal-pill and 
 starman items deserve a special mention. Collecting a pal-pill will spawn you a mini-army of retro 
 Marios; they can take a hit for you, and they can dispatch enemies as they jump at the same time 
 as you. Collecting a starman will transform you into an old-skool, screen-consuming version of 
 whichever character youre currently playing as. For a limited period of time, you can run through 
 the level demolishing anything that comes into contact with you.
  
  Youll be happy to know that a good soundtrack will accompany your dimension-flipping quest. There 
 is a good balance of classic Mario remixes against original recordings for the new places added 
 to the universe. The new stuff isnt quite as memorable as the old, but thats only because some 
 of these remixes (such as the underworld and starman themes) are based on such iconic tracks. The 
 sound effects will also be familiar to anyone who has played a Mario game. The sound of a jump 
 or the descent down a pipe is pretty much the same as its always been.
  
  If youre looking for an innovative platformer with light elements of an RPG, Super Paper Mario 
 will be perfect for you. Its accessible for casual and hardcore gamers alike, but seasoned Mario 
 players may find the trade-off in difficulty a little disappointing. Still, this is no reason to 
 dissuade you from playing Super Paper Mario. A fun story, great cast of characters, and a solid 
 soundtrack complement the gameplay, and the visuals simply speak for themselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_152
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  A spectacle to behold in modern platform gaming, Super Paper Mario is a must have for many. 
  
  The games graphics portray a simple yet original and distinctive world and set of characters, 
 right off the bat this is something quite special for a platform game. The game also provides more 
 something more original than just the grass world, the desert world, the ice world and really gets 
 creative. But these are also coupled with a variety of equally shared animations for all characters, 
 this is a bit of a double-edged sword though, as although the time you'll spend watching the delightful 
 gestures of the minor characters the major characters are left to communicate in only a small range 
 of ways, this wouldn't sound too restricting and it's not that bad but considering this game is 
 so RPG based it's a bit of a step backwards for an otherwise very nice looking game. 
  
  The gameplay is really what you want from a modern platformer, jumping things and stomping enemies 
 is a large part of this game (although the platforming itself isn't too challenging for the large 
 majority of the game) , it also presents that solid, almost Zelda-ish brain-wracking puzzle element 
 that we've seen executed so well in previous Mario games in a whole new package and it combines 
 an RPG element to the game reminiscent of the earlier Paper Mario games with your score helping 
 you level up to increase your HP and attack and providing some really cool items to help you in 
 combat. There are also cards and recipes to pick up throughout the game involving capturing monsters 
 and collecting special items for cooking to fill up your lists, taking into account that this is 
 at heart a platform game, just with very heavy RPG overtones the lists may seem quite extensive 
 but they are not crucial to the game and unless your really worried about that 100% you can let 
 them drift by almost completely unnoticed but can be quite fun if you do decide to dip into them. 
 Some of the Pixls, the little friends of the world that'll help you with the game, are in some 
 examples also quite original in their abilities. For me there was a slight wavering difficulty 
 issue where the game may throw a very clever puzzle at you but follow it up with a little platform 
 jumping and then a rather easy boss or something like that, in my opinion it's one of the games 
 biggest fall downs but it's not a huge issue. 
  
  The music itself is good and usually backs up the quality and style of the levels themselves quite 
 nicely. I wouldn't say it introduced any great tracks like we remember from the previous Mario 
 games but this game almost feels a little wrong for that in its RPG-like form. 
  
  The story is pretty cool as well, maybe a little cheap in some places but it actually carries that 
 same sort of Mario feel and message without bringing vomit inducing, clich Disney-style dialog 
 and plot. This game seems to touch a little deeper than that while still giving something out for 
 the smaller children. If you really examine this game in detail you seem some almost spooky stuff 
 in there but that's all I can say without giving out spoilers. The only downside here is the reels 
 of unskippable text prevent this game from really being pick up and play. 
  
  Overall this is another one to jot down on the list of games that makes the Nintendo Wii worth 
 playing, so turn your ol' console back on and get yourself into some real fun Mario style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gensae
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  After finishing it in general someone, like me, could say: 'A nice one!' if you do not refer to 
 some annoying things like being wrapped in a certain part of the stage, when you don't know where 
 you need to go next, you can be hours like that, you can power off and go somewhere else and then 
 you go back to play again to see if this time you get over it, you'll probably do because the riddles 
 in this game are very simple and the stages are not that big, just right, probably a bit small. 
 It can be even three times you get like that.. maximum I've been 'wrapped' but you know.. very.. 
 like 2 in a subchapter, and as you beat the stages the tendency to be 'wrapped' -like I like to 
 say- are more and more, and this is what pisses me off a little specially in this game: it's really 
 fun to beat the ass off of those goombas,  big 
 pig triplets, mamuts, doing stylish moves, to choose Bowser to breath fire in any direction because 
 you know it will hit some guy, etc.. but since you happen to don't know what to do next you stop 
 to kill enemies and have fun with it: the gameplay is just cool, the movement of the characters 
 is so well developed you don't want to stop moving yourself, Bowser deals a lot of damage, the 
 double of the normal character jumps and his breathed fire is sweet, peach maybe kinda slow, not 
 as much as bowser, just that he is so powerful you feel like if you're THE JUGGERNAUT B****, but 
 Peach's ok, you can't stop do jumping and using her parasol to slow down the fall because it's 
 addictive as I said before; Luigi's super jump is cool too, more if there's no ceiling that hits 
 your head jumping; finally Mario, I use him just to do the flip technique, otherwise I would choose 
 another character because Mario isn't so great to use at all (average) : the slowness of the previous 
 ones are not a problem that balances the characters because there's this Pixl that fasts your movement 
 up, and yes.. you can use any Pixl with any character, so you only use Mario to do the flip technique, 
 and it's kinda awkward because you need to use that A LOT but well.. I'll continue with this later 
 on.
  
  Back to being 'wrapped' I just conclude with this mentioning that the riddles are very simple but 
 not short, there's only one way to end -well, obviously- but that way deprives you from playing 
 a fun and well developed game, you are so desperate to get back into action in a moment where you 
 don't know what to do you end frustrating yourself, but be constant in your goal, it's not difficult 
 finishing that tedious scene.
  
  The Pixl I found it's a nice system, yes you use them in lots of parts of the game, but mainly 
 in the chapter you found it, it would have been great if they didn't condense all the Pixl in only 
 5 chapters in the game. I explain myself: in the first chapter you find your second Pixl (first 
 one Merlon give it to you before starting chapter 1) , in the second one you find 2 I think, in 
 the third I believe 2 Pixl also, and so on and so forth til reaching all the Pixl around chapter 
 5; the game has 8 chapters, the last one is Count Bleck's castle so for being the last one we won't 
 count it, so there's 2 chapters you know you won't find another Pixl so that makes you a bit sad 
 because it's like thinking: 'Yay! In this stage I will find another funny Pixl with an interesting 
 new power!.. wait.. the Pixl screen is full..' and if you don't deduce by the Pixl 'item' screen 
 that you're full of Pixl it would be worse since you will finish the chapter and think: 'But.. 
 where's the new Pixl ?'. So they kinda screwed up on not scattering all the Pixl in 7 chapters.
 
  Also, as said before, they kinda screwed up on not scattering the use of Pixl's powers over all 
 the Super Paper Mario world.. yes you use them in some few parts aside the original chapter or 
 subchapter you found it, but they are just some FEW parts,.. why you get those things ? to use 
 them. The ones who you can use everywhere to beat up enemies are Thoreau, a Pixl you throw to lift 
 enemies in your hands (if they are small enough) to throw, this time the enemy, to another enemies 
 so there's a double kill; the bomb (don't remember the name) and Carrie, a Pixl that can turn into 
 a platform so you can go faster and jump on enemies with thorns on their head, the others are for 
 no real funny use except the main one, Tippi, that you must use it to get over riddles or certain 
 hidden treasures that contains cards, healing up items, etc.
  
  Back again to the flip technique and Mario topic. It's kinda annoying the only natural safe way 
 to recover your 'flip bar' is by un-flipping and waiting to full again, also you can get drained 
 your bar completely to get hit by some 'mysterious and unknown force' you suffer when you're out 
 of flip bar, but you don't want to get hit. Some.. let's say 'artificial' ways to get your bar 
 full at the top instantly are by getting hit by an enemy or healing up yourself, but you don't 
 want to get hit by a random guy nor to waste precious healing items that easily. There's this healing 
 item that recovers you 1 by 1 HP each 4 or 5 seconds I guess, but it's so valuable you don't want 
 to use it just for that purpose of getting your bar full.
  
  Well, I have more to say but let just end, the conclusion it's made up by itself (yeah, I'm tired 
 and don't want to write more) .
  
  P. S: Sorry my bad english. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willy105
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  Who here remembers Super Mario RPG? Anybody? Guess not. Super Mario RPG: The Legend of the Seven 
 Stars for the Super NES was the first RPG that started the icon of the videogame industry, Mario. 
 It was also a very critical success, named frequently on the top 5 RPG's ever made. But unfortunately, 
 it was not a commercial success, seeing that it came out when the N64 was already released, in 
 1996. So it was a long while until we could get a sequel, until 2001. Paper Mario for the N64 was 
 also a very critical success and also getting higher on the list of best RPG's ever made. But unfortunately, 
 it was not a commercial success neither, seeing it came out in the same year the Gamecube came 
 out. Super Paper Mario was to be the same thing, to come out to the Gamecube the same year the 
 Wii was going to come out. But Nintendo did not make the same mistake again, and it has now been 
 released for the Wii. Which is great, meaning more people will be able to experience this amazing 
 game.
  
  Now, Super Paper Mario is very different from past Mario RPG's. For one, it's a mix of platforming 
 AND RPG. Not only that, it's a mix of 2D gameplay AND 3D gameplay. That's enough to call it ambitious. 
 We have all played 2D games and 3D games, but the fact that you have to master them both at once 
 is a very fun and deep gameplay mechanic that you get to do all thru the game, making it seem second 
 nature. But this is at the expense of the RPG gameplay, making it seem shallow on that note, especially 
 considering how deep past installments were. But overall, this game is worth playing.
  
  The game is in 2D mainly. The graphics have good art and are very nice. The game also has a 3D 
 engine for it's 3D gameplay. It is very impressive on the way it renders the 2D environments in 
 3D, but it is a but flawed. For once, you can't rotate the camera at all, making the 3D game a 
 little linear. Paper Mario had phenomenal music, but Paper Mario 2's music was a bit disappointing. 
 However, Super Paper Mario's musical score is almost as good as the original Paper Mario. They 
 aren't catchy as the others but are very well made and give the game a great epic feel.
  
  In the end, this game lives up to the Paper Mario name. A lot of stuff from past games are missing, 
 but are replace with a bountiful of other things. It may not be as deep, it is just as epic as 
 all the other Paper Mario games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sammyboy8k
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is a great game that allows you to put RPG and platforming together in an epic 
 adventure. This game pwns all and is a must for every single person. Every element in this game is 
 addictive especially the ability to go into 3-D. If you want an amazing game with elite graphics (for 
 the Wii of course) you definitely don't want to miss out on this incredible experience.
  
  Graphics : 9/10
  
  Gameplay : 9.5/10
  
  Story : Totally Epic!!!
  
  Overall : 10.0
 
  
  I swear if you do not go to the store and pick up this game right now I will have to come over 
 to your house and shove your Wii controller down your throat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesemonkey199
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  super paper mario is one of those games where you play it and you say this game is good but it's 
 missing something . the graphics for the game are very good and stylish in 2-D, but when you flip 
 into 3-D they turn boring and plain. the sound is also quite good.
  
  the gameplay is great because there is the new RPG elements, the 2-D to 3-D flip and the pixls. 
 the pixls are little things that help you one your adventure and they do different things like 
 pick up objects or place a bomb.
  
  the story for the game is quite long and you end up with over 10 hours on the main quest. the are 
 collectables to get as well, like enemy cards.
  
  super paper mario is a great game and one that you should definitely purchase if you are a mario 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-Lafleur
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Well, Nintendo has released another Paper Mario, and this one is also a great game. One thing that 
 makes this game different from the last two that it isn't an RPG, but instead a platformer (that 
 has RPG elements) . The big thing about this game is it's gameplay mechanic, which is switching 
 between 2-D and 3-D. It is a very different and intruiging mechanic that's very deep and entertaining, 
 that can lead for a truely unique adventure and some pretty neat puzzles, places, and enemies. 
 You'll be able to control more than just Mario, but other characters as well, which you'll need 
 to use if you wish to beat this game. The graphics, scenery, and characters are colorful, and paper, 
 obviously. And Super Paper Mario makes paper look more awesome than I thought it could. The music 
 is goos, some good tunes, some not so good, like any other game really. The story isn't extremely 
 deep, but for a mario game, it's more than deep enough, and gets the job done. There asre plenty 
 of interesting characters, as well as dialogue, and there's some humor, and you can't complain 
 about that. One not-so-cool thing is that the game was very easy, I was never close to getting 
 a game over once (though maybe I'm just incredibly awesome) ! And there are funny moments, but there 
 are moments that attempt hmor that don't do too well, but I can't complain about that, since I'm 
 the same. For anyone who has played a Paper Mario before, or just wants a new Mario platforming 
 game (or just a platforming game period) I highly recommend Super Paper Mario. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paintballpimp13
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 13, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is a huge let down. Everything that made the game good has been stripped out and turned 
 into a barely mediocre game. Paper mario is supposed to be an RPG with the turn based fighting. 
 Thats what made it DIFFERENT. I would have loved it if it had been kept the same as the NN64 version 
 and GC version style, but it was nothing like um. Nintnedo needs to stop changing stuff anf leave 
 the good franchises the same. SM galaxy is supposed to be the paltformer not Paper Mario. I expected 
 a GREAT RPG from this series. Not this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nelzoma
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  As I already said it was not good and i regret ever buying it. The graphics and gameplay are worse 
 than the Nintendo 64's version ( which was very good)
  I don't see how people find it extremely fun it wasn't even good enough that I don't consider it 
 a Wii game but instead i think of it as a Gameboy game for the Wii the only thing they used the 
 motion senser in the game was for pointing ever now and then. It was a waste of $68 and alot of 
 my time. You get the idea it was bad the only good thing about the gam was that it was a mario 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  The Paper Mario series returns, this time on Wii with very good results. Mario, Peach, Bowser and 
 Luigi are all playable this time around. You can change between them whenever you like and it is 
 necessary to do so in many places to solve the many puzzles. Mario is the only one that can 2D 
 swap though. If you like Mario, like platforming, and like the Wii, then this game is recommended 
 for you.
  
  Gameplay 8- Good mechanics that hail back to Mario's 8-bit days with lots of new twists. Being 
 able to swap from 2D to 3D is an interesting and awesome feature.
  Graphics 9- Very colorful, good detail, and lots of squares.
  Sound 8- The music mimics the old 
 school classic Mario themes.
  Replay Value- 7 Moderate- No new game plus. However the game isnt too terribly long and its fun 
 enough to play through a few times.
  Fun Factor- 8- High
  
  My Final Score- 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oddymaw
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Now, I am die-hard Mario fan. It'd be hard to shake me from that. I've yet to play a Mario game 
 that I truly felt dirty after, and I wish I could say the same for Banjo-Kazooie. Anyway, this 
 game felt familiar... and for good reason. It's been done before. Paper Mario: Thousand Year Door 
 was an awesome adventure that took the N64 Paper Mario and blew it to little tiny pieces, but this 
 one felt a little too much like a rehash of PM: TYD.
  
  I can say several good things about this game, however. Rehash or not, the original game was an 
 absolute pleasure and this did not change that over-all feeling at all. The environments were interesting 
 and the you had the new elements of side-scrolling and the 2D/3D craziness. Instead of having certain 
 abilities or items, you have pixels that are essentially little floating sprites that give you 
 special abilities or generally just lend a hand. There were several truly amusing moments, as well. 
 A few moments where I laughed aloud, including the uber-dork Iguana.
  
  The bad does not make a long list, but it is here. As I said, the idea has been done before and 
 this, even without the stage and turn-based combat (though I did alternate between missing it and 
 being thankful I had the new system) , felt a little too similar to PM: TYD. I also felt the game 
 was a little too easy, even with the occasional beating-head-with-controller moment before realizing 
 I had to flip or uncover a hidden door.
  
  So, what would I say to the game, overall? It's worth buying and playing. It is an experience that 
 you will draw you in, make you feel for the characters, laugh, scream in agony as you write down 
 the 17th character. You won't be sorry choosing this, it took a winning formula and gave you one 
 more shot at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Video_Game_King
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 3:50 am PT
Review:  Mario, of Nintendo fame, has become the Renaissance man of video games. He has appeared in almost 
 every genre from platformers to sports games and even RPGs. His latest game, Super Paper Mario, 
 blends the plumbers platforming roots and RPG-style gameplay in such a way that no game before 
 it can claim to have done.
  
  The game starts with Mario and Luigi starting a journey to rescue Peach from Bowser. However, Bowser 
 is not the culprit this time, and Mario ends up involved in a quest to stop the end of all existence, 
 only stoppable by the seven Pure Hearts, found in seven separate worlds. In order to accomplish 
 this, he must visit these worlds and travel through them in a manner reminiscent of older Mario 
 platformers, especially games like Super Mario World. Taking a cue from his RPG skirmishes, enemies 
 have their own HP count and often will not die on the first hit. When killed, they give off points, 
 which go towards your overall score, another nod towards the plumbers roots. However, their purpose 
 has been changed to that of experience used to gain levels. To aid Mario on his quest are various 
 Pixls, mysterious creatures with unique abilities. They serve almost the same purpose as your partners 
 from previous Paper Mario games, such as Tippi, who can scan enemies and find their weak points, 
 or Thoreau, who can grab objects and reach switches that Mario just cannot. Where the game truly 
 excels will not be found in either of the components that combine to make this game. Marios special 
 ability allows him to switch dimensions from 2D to 3D for a limited time. While in 3D, the plumber 
 can find secrets only noticeable with that extra dimension, such as a different block arrangement 
 or other characters and enemies. Over time, you gain other characters to control, such as Peach 
 and Bowser. Neither of them can go 3D, but Peach can glide with her parasol and Bowser, along with 
 being stronger, can breathe fire. What makes these aspects stand out is how well they work. Both 
 have practical uses in both combat and puzzle solving (especially Marios dimensional flipping) . 
 For example, Mario may see a weak point on a boss or an entrance to a key area that otherwise would 
 not have been seen. But the game does not completely abandon its RPG roots. You still get to use 
 items that damage enemies, and they still require some sort of user input (shoot at targets on 
 the screen; shake the controller to fill a meter, etc.) . However, the game is far from perfect. 
 For one, Tippis scan move is handled awkwardly, as it requires that the user switch from holding 
 the Wii-mote horizontally to the one handed position and point at the enemy they wish to scan. 
 Even after that, the game may not always register this move, and somewhat faster motions make for 
 a rough movement that has the fluidity of a slideshow. The game is also notably short, being finished 
 in the average rental period. These flaws do not detract from the fun that is Super Paper Mario, 
 and is still a great game.
  
  The story, as is the case with most of the game, holds onto its Mario heritage, but not entirely. 
 It starts with an unexpected twist: Bowser and Peach at the altar, ready to be married! This unholy 
 union is a scheme by the games villain, Count Bleck, to create the Chaos Heart and fulfill the 
 nihilistic predictions of the Dark Prognosticus. However, there is hope. Mario, the hero of the 
 Light Prognosticus (antithesis to the Dark Prognosticus) , must collect the seven Pure Hearts and 
 use them to thwart the plans of the evil and somewhat egotistical Count Bleck. The story is accompanied 
 by a healthy dose of random humor, sometimes at the expense of those who play the game. While the 
 humor is just as good as past Paper Mario games, the plot seems to deviate from the rest due to 
 the seriousness of the tale. The most obvious example of this is the villains goal, which is not 
 to gain some sort of ultimate power or thwart Mario, but to erase all of existence. Each chapter 
 also features an interlude explaining the story of Timpani and Blumiere, two lovers driven away 
 by fate, their relevance revealed near the end of the game. These elements make Super Paper Mario 
 feel a bit more like a Square game, reminiscent of Super Mario RPGs somewhat deeper plot compared 
 to the games to fall in place.
  
  Of course, Super Paper Mario would not be a Paper Mario game if it did not have the cartoonish 
 storybook graphics of its predecessors. The game does indeed feature these graphics, and they are 
 just as beautiful as before. The characters and environments are vibrant, full of color, and animate 
 fluidly. It does look like The Thousand Year Door, but not much could be improved from that game 
 in terms of graphical capability. However, the game sets itself apart from its forerunners with 
 the looks of the 3D mode. The lush, 2D environments transform into beings that are more detailed. 
 Environments become larger and expansive, bosses become larger and foreboding and linear pathways 
 can adopt twists and turns that otherwise would not be seen.
  
  Perhaps the best aspect of the game could be the music. Put simply, each melody exhumes personality 
 and portrays the feeling it attempts to. For example, Dimentios leitmotif gets across his manipulative, 
 insane, jester-like personality (much like Kefka of Final Fantasy VI fame) and the musical number 
 that complements The Green Thunder comes off as awkward and bumbling, yet attempting to be evil, 
 traits that all fit him. All of this is amazingly fit into the MIDI format, amazing because of 
 the quality of it. Each song resonates an orchestral feel that almost sounds like the real thing.
 
  
  Overall, this is a game not to be missed. The graphics are adorable and vibrant, the music is full 
 of personality, and the story is quite intricate and humorous. But most of all, the gameplay is 
 truly superb and like nothing seen before. Truly, this is a game not to be missed by anyone who 
 enjoys Mario RPGs, or even video games in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akitoyoshimi
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 12:18 am PT
Review:  Very very disappointing game. Not like the previous Paper Mario Games. For one there is no more 
 RPG fighting. It is basically like a 1980's Mario game but paper version with the ability to go 
 3D and the use of items. The characters you receive are pixel characters which means they arent 
 Goombas, Koopas or any of the other type of characters. When I bought this game i was expecting 
 a fun Paper Mario classic but it turns out it is nothing like its N64 and Gamecube Paper Mario. 
 The one thing that angers me about this game is the lack of a fight. You dont get to take turns 
 pounding enemies. You dont get to use badges and you dont even get a hammer! The levels in the 
 game are very short and doesnt take long to beat. If you felt like Paper Mario The Thousand Year 
 Door was way better than the original, then you will agree that the Original is way better than 
 this mistake that Nintendo made. Seriously i feel like Nintendo just got lazy with this game. Even 
 if they are trying to make it more interesting by getting rid of the fighting it shouldnt be advertised 
 as an RPG and should be advertised as an adventure game. Very disappointing and not worth buying. 
 You should only rent it or borrow it from a friend if you really want to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viictoriio
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  Oh yeah! Insert the disk... start the game and the oldschool characters come to life again. Although 
 the huge amount of story telling texts at the beginning and between chapters is annoying, you're 
 back in the game in no time as good and addictive it was as 20 years ago.
  
  Save the princess, again... jump on the creatures, again... run through the tubes and jump all 
 gaps... again. Been there done yet I thought but why is this stereotype so amazingly addictive 
 to so many? Once the first few chapters cleared you just can't stop playing!
  
  Despite the few great additional features like the 3D flipping mode and pixls you can use the game 
 remains very easy to unerstand. For those who played super mario the past 20 years it is a bit 
 easier I guess. However, I'm very pleased to finally see a GREAT game that is very basic and easy, 
 just press right and let the little red brother run!
  
  Once again, when you have to read the texts in all those awfull long cutscenes you do get irritated 
 after a while, that's why I rate the game with a 8.5 instead of 9... just too much text. And once 
 I finished the game I must say the game is a little bit too easy. It's hard to go game over and 
 you don't need to save untill the very last endbosses when you're planning to run through the game 
 in 15 hours. However, good game! Just play it!
  
  (My last mario experience was Super mario world 3 on the old gameboy, I don't have any experience 
 with previous paper mario's but I like this one a lot.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctores143
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  I love paper mario. I lovd the funny bosses and the shops and items and tons and tons of sidequest. But 
 this game just isnt the same. Dont get me wrong its a good game but it just doesnt have the same 
 controls or funnyness. It has some jokes but it seems that they arent very funny at times. I just 
 want a paper mario that is the same. Anyway enough with me whining (finaly) . You start out with the 
 ocasiional paper mari intro of mario and luigi in the house eating something and they go out and 
 save people and whatnot. There is a pretty funny title intro of peach well... I wont spoil it. The 
 game is a mario platformer with items although you will find yourself only using healing items 
 anfter the first level. You get to be bowser, mario, peach, and luigi with special moves and these 
 pixel things which are like party members (allies) .
  
  Anyway here is how I rated it.
  
  graphics:8 out of 10. The graphics are interesting. They are like old graphics with a twist. Mario 
 can turn 3-d and some worlds are pixelated in huge pixels which is prety cool!
  
  gameplay:7.5 out of 10. Its a good game but it just doesnt measure up to a good mario adventure. Lets 
 face it... puzzles and platforming doesnt work too well.
  
  controls:9 out of 10. The controls are creative and like metroid you scan objects by pointing at 
 them with the wii remote which works well. But this falls short because most of the items just have 
 you shaking the wii remote and most of the game you just use... A and the pad which isnt bery creative 
 but I guess it is like the classic nes controler. going down a pipe in 3-d can also be frusturating 
 because a lot of the time you just go right above it.
  
  overall:8 out of 10
  
  Its a good game and a nice idea but you cant realy call this game a paper mario. Lets face it... platforming, puzzle 
 solving, and a plot just dont go very well together. If your a paper mario fan like me and have 1 
 of the paper marios i suggest getting the other one. If you have both then give it a try. I liked 
 it but it just wasnt the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KoreanPork
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  This game's the best! It's not like the past two paper mario's, but it still has the RPG elements 
 mixed with the classic platforming elements from the 2D side scrolling mario games. There are plenty 
 of items to collect to keep you busy after you beat the game. And there's lots of secrets to figure 
 out too. The game doesn't have the same (save the princess from the evil Bowser) plot, so it's 
 nice to see something new in the series. It's also fun to be able to play as some different characters, 
 like Peach, Bowser, and (SPOILER!!) Luigi. So pick up this game and have a great time with it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gangstaa9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Who ever had the idea to mix paper and mario together is a genius. True you could've had almost 
 the same game with or without paper but still. Very very hard to figure out and a fun new fighting 
 style that combines previous paper mario games and reguler mario games. the only flaw is if you 
 know what to do it gets kinda boring and the bosses are pretty easy if you now how to handle them. 
 Another cool addition to this game you can play as peach bowser luigi and mario each one has a 
 unique ability to help out. Mario can flip between 2d and 3d peach can glide on an umbrella luigi 
 can jump high and bowser is just a beast. Theres lots of things to do after you beat the game. 
 I strongly recommend it for every mario fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyperion886
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario was all-in-all an excellent game. The storyline was excellent and gameplay was 
 superb, with many hours of gameplay in store. The controls were solid and made great use of the 
 Wii Remote.
  For anyone looking for a good RPG for the Wii, this is definietely a must play. There isn't much, 
 however, for gamers to come back to after they've beaten it. If you fancy playing games over and 
 over again, this is definitely a buying game. However, if you just want to play it and beat it, 
 rent it first, at least. Either way, you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shishio817
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Here I was, hoping that Nintendo would deliver an awesome Paper Mario game on the Wii. And what 
 do I get? A mediocre prototype of a game that is many steps down from the previous games in the 
 series (including Super Mario RPG) , which were awesome. 
  
  
  First of all, Super Paper Mario is essentially a platformer, with only a few RPG mainstays. Therefore, 
 the game play itself is nothing like Paper Mario's of the past. This makes the game suffer, as 
 half of the charm and unique qualities of the series aren't present. But it is still a good platformer, 
 if that's what you're looking for (pretend there isn't "Paper" in the title) . It's fun to do what 
 you've undoubtedly done in past Mario sidescrollers (with a few quirks thrown in) , and dimensional 
 flipping is pretty cool at first (but gets old and irritating after a bit) . 
  
  
  Graphically, it's disappointing. Although bright, colorful, and well-designed, the levels and characters 
 just aren't up to next-gen Wii standards; some enemies for example are noticeably fuzzy in texture 
 around their bodies, and this also sometimes appears on environments and platforms. It isn't very 
 nice to look at. However, this is undoubtedly because it isn't an RPG. I wouldn't be saying this 
 if it was a game more like Paper Mario: The Thousand Year Door, because a game like that that was 
 actually in 3D would actually be able to have noticeably good graphics. That's just not really 
 possible with a platformer (as it's only in 2D) , so the graphics overall feel at times, dated. 
 
  
  
  The music in the game isn't particularly good, and there isn't any of the catchy tunes from games 
 past (besides a few decent remixes) . You won't be humming any music from this game, and will forget 
 all of it as soon as you're done with the game, which won't take long at all. 
  
  
  Super Paper Mario very, VERY easy, so much so that there are times when you just don't want to 
 play it. In addition, the story is kind of shallow, not like the other games, and the lack of 3D 
 RPG worlds really make it feel much less epic. Regardless, it is still fun at times, and the negatives 
 are countered with the game's humor, which breaks up the monotony. 
  
  
  I respect Nintendo for wanting to try out new things (that seems to be a recurring, and kind of 
 irritating theme with the Wii) , but this just fell flat on its face (like paper!) . And with a series 
 like Paper Mario, I hope that they don't repeat this. Please, go back to the original formula of 
 Mario RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetroidFreak800
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  The graphics in this game are colorful and creative. They made the graphics which are so colorful 
 and fantasy like to come just above over simplified. The sound is a weak factor in this game. The 
 music doesn't show up as memorable ever and there's no voice acting.
  
  Tilt can suck at times because when you want to look behind a wall in a corner in 3-D it's really 
 hard and frustrating.
  
  Value doesn't hold up somewhat well making you want to replay it once at most.
  
  The gameplay 
 is an important factor and they nailed the best part. The gameplay is fun and addictive and that's 
 all that matters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barnthepirate
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is a blast and one of the reasons you should own a wii. Even if you don't like rpg's 
 you'll still like this because they balance it perfectly. No there are no random battles, you bash 
 enemies mario style, by jumping on there head.
  
  The graphics although not mind blowing have a great sense of art involved and make the game a brighter 
 and often bizzare experience. The sound is one of my favorite parts of this game, it has great 
 mario sounds and music.
  
  The story is also good enough to keep you entertained till the end and a little dare I say emotionally 
 involving, you can't help feel a little sympathetic for wait I don't want to ruin anything! If 
 your looking for a great game for the wii look no further than Super paper mario! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giratina667
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 1, 2007 5:19 am PT
Review:  Super Paper is the newest entry in the Paper Mario subseries, though it takes the series in a new 
 direction, it isn't entirely for the better.
  
  Visual-The game is crisper than the previous entries, and still retains the style, albeit in a more 
 outlandish way, with much surrealism, some characters are geometrically shaped or segmented. The game 
 still looks good.
  
  Sound-not much to say here, there's no voice acting, though that may be for the better, and attacks 
 are met with a satisfying Whack! sound byte.
  
  Story-good and engaging, but there's even MORE talking than TTYD, which gets in the way, though dialogue 
 is clever and funny.
  
  Gameplay-his is the game's greatest merit, but also it's downfall, The game is a platformer, rather 
 than an RPG, though it retains a bizarre leveling sytem with a score rather than the easy to track 
 star point system from 1 and TTYD, though the new system works. Unlike one and two, there are few 
 sidequestswhich restricts longevity.
  
  overall, the game is good but, it lacks the charm and great RPG gameplay that made the first 2 great. The 
 devs need to try again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adventureseeker
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  I was so excited for this game back in April because there was a drought of wii games and this 
 game got good reviews on every site. So I went and bought it and had a blast up to chapter 7. Then 
 when you get to the Underthere its hell! Its so hard and confusing I had to run to the computer 
 every minute to see what to do. Graphics - The grachics are nice and colourful, when you go into 
 3-D things look good also. Also the background stuff is nice but it could have been better. Gameplay 
 - Like I said its fun up until chapter 7, then you start to struggle through it and it isn't fun 
 anymore. I have one question, WHY AM I NOT PLAYING AN AMAZING RPG like the last two games? That 
 makes me made cause its a platformer. I have played enough platformers. Sound - Every World has 
 a cool song that will get stuck in your head, and whenever a boss approaches it has good intense 
 beats. Also the battle music is good. Value - This is where the game shines, there is so much to 
 collect. There are cards and recipes and secrets everywhere. Tilt - Its pretty hard to begin with 
 and then it just gets brutal. I was just expecting the next great rpg and I didn't get one. Dont 
 get me wrong, its a fun game its just not on the same level as its predcessors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richboy999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  This game is still amazing despite the fact that they took mostly all of the RPG elements that 
 originally made paper mario so if your looking for an rpg game this one you should leave out . 
 I was a little disapointed but still an amazing game to the series. with a amazing storyline and 
 gameplay it brings together a great mario game. This game is also pretty long so if your looking 
 for a game that will last you a month or so this is one of those games with a wide variety of characters 
 to play as and a good amount of levels . the inovation is also pretty cool as you have to point 
 the wii remote to reveal hidden doors and learn about enimies and there HP, Attack, Defence. So overall 
 this game is really good and worth your while to play it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metallica_Dan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 11:09 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent game! One of the first games for the Wii that doesn't feel like it was build 
 around the Wii-mote, instead using it for cool things and to add to the experience. It's a great 
 Mario game and the ability to flip into 3D is pretty cool. The whole paper theme is pulled off 
 nicely and the graphics are pretty good for the Wii. It is more of a platformer than it is an RPG 
 but the RPG elements (experience, HP, etc) are well done. The story is pretty good too and immersive. 
 I highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giovanni848
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  the way they left the whole stage aspect was brilliant and saved yourself from all thouse stupid 
 waits for a fight which takes way too long to fight one enemy your just going to one hit, which 
 makes the 100 pits of trails actually enjoyable to go through.
  
  The humor side of the game is actually funny at times (even to a 17 year old :p) and the plot always 
 keeps you interested till the very end
  
  The ability to play as Multipule charicters is BRILLIANT and makes it super fun and in some cases 
 makes bosses easyer (if you know what your doing)
  
  the way the game is built is brilliant and there is all sorts of little tricks and places hidden 
 in the flip/flop sides of the world
  
  Happy Playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geraldo18
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  After having finished Paper Mario like four times (COOL game) and considering it a thousand times 
 worse than Super Mario RPG (which is THE game) , I skipped Paper Mario 2 and got a copy of this 
 all-new Super Paper Mario with great expectations.
  
  If Paper Mario was worse than Super Mario RPG, this new one is WAY WORSE. Starting by the story, 
 what a childish and least original one. The graphics really suck even if compared to Paper Mario's.
 
  
  The characters are pretty much the same, jump on the head and kill the mob. The first disappontment 
 was jumping into and enemy waiting for a cool, full of action battle and ending up killing him 
 rightaway.
  
  The experience points and the level up system have nothing to do with the game development. As 
 long as you can JUMP, you won't need to train for experience.
  
  Flip technique is somewhat cool, but only Mario can use it and it has limited time.
  
  There's 
 no equip nor power-up, at least that I've found. Only consumables, crappy consumables with a mini 
 pocket for you to put like TEN items for a WHOLE quest.
  
  Hope the game gets better in the next 10 hours. But I was really looking forward to a great classic 
 of Mario on Wii. Gess I'll have to wait for Super Mario Galaxy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hogowagh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  I like mario games there fun have good gameplay but I did not feel this one I dont know why I like 
 this game but I dont feel it is just going to 3d I dont like that. I just wanted a perfect mario 
 game and I got a good game but I still like it. Well its still good. Now I just have to wait until 
 mario galixy comes out I wish its going to be beter then this one but I still I like this game. 
 Well there are good points in the game it has great animation its funy and you can play as browser. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_41
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2007 7:11 am PT
Review:  I LOVE THIS GAME. This game is a must buy if you have a Wii, and love hard games. This is probably 
 my third favorite game for the Wii. Full of diverse worlds, plot lines, good, bad, love, and HEARTS. 
 (for real) This game has hardly any flaws, except some parts of it seem impossible. Through this 
 game you will unite with a huge enemy, help a good guy that turned into a bad guy come to the good 
 side yet again, there are princesses, fake princesses, counts, fairies, pixies, prophets, and of 
 course, Bowser. So fasten ure wrist strap and have at it.
  
  
  BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theplayer131
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  The only flaw in this game is that the graphics are exactly the same that Paper Mario the thousand 
 year door on gamecube. Except for that, the gameplay is easy to learn, there are many puzzles and 
 the story is inspired. Personally, I loved playing as Bowser more than the other characters (pretty 
 much like the bowser levels in PMTTYD) . Don't think that you'll love it just because you loved 
 the other Paper Mario games though, it's completely different. It is more for a platformer lover 
 that a RPG lover.
  
  
  A funny game to play alone, but after finishing the game, you don't have so much to do (except 
 doing the pit of 100 trials) . Rent it until you pass it, it's awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anrke99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is a fun, beautiful Wii game that will definitely hold you over until Super Mario 
 Galaxy arrives. At first glance, the game is simply stunning for a 2D game. The colors are bright 
 and the characters sharply drawn, but other than the visual appeal, the beginning of the game is 
 lackluster. You have to wait and wait and wait through text after text giving you a simple and 
 boring story line, but don't give up on the game yet!
  
  Once you start really playing, the fun begins. The game play is addictive and will really have 
 you searching for the items you must get at the end of each level. You are assaulted by a multitude 
 of enemies, all of which a basic jump will destroy and small puzzles you must solve using the various 
 characters' abilities. The real fun begins later in the game as you gather more Pixls (little sidekicks) 
 and Mario characters. Using Mario to switch to 3D, then a Pixl to turn sideways, then choosing 
 another Pixl to skate across a floor of spikes - all before switching to Bowser to torch an enemy 
 - is really fun. The controls are simple and make some use of the Wii-mote's features, though these 
 kind of feel tacked on. Overall, the pretty visuals, great game play, easy controls, and well-written 
 humor make up for a boring beginning and a simple plot. Super Paper Mario is a great game to own, 
 though I just rented mine. The game will last for quite a few hours, and it makes a great game 
 to play leading up to Super Mario Galaxy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordkory
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2007 1:12 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is a simple and fun 2D / 3D side scroller that brings together a lot of the main 
 characters of the Mario series to fight against a forgettable ancient dark power or chaos heart 
 . To help them through the game are various assistants called Pixels that give the player special 
 abilities such as laying bombs, wielding hammers, or shrinking down to a tiny dot. These abilities 
 can be used either against enemies or used to solve the numerous but simple puzzles scattered throughout 
 the game.
  
  For gameplay, the title is very solid and has very smooth and simple controls and doesn't try to 
 do anything too fancy with the Wii's motion controllers. The use of the pixels is simple enough, 
 and the chance to switch between the other main characters provides a nice mix that keeps things 
 interesting. Fighting enemies is as simple as any other Mario game, where the player is required 
 to jump on the enemy until they squish them out of existence. Boss battles are handled in just 
 about the same way, but some characters and their special abilities may be better suited to victory 
 than the old jump and stomp method.
  
  The downside of the game lies really within the switch to 3D feature. The game allows the player 
 to shift from 2D to 3D when playing Mario in order to find hidden items, solve puzzles, and to 
 fight certain enemies. While the idea sounds good, it is simply more of an annoyance later on in 
 the game where the player has to shift from 2D to 3D constantly to find their way around, and can 
 sometimes be a little confusing in certain levels and may require constant back-tracking.
  
  In addition, the game's enemies have a tendency to be too easy to defeat later on in the game. 
 The usual jump and stomp method works on almost all enemies, but is then later sub-planted by the 
 use of Bowser's flame attack and certain combat oriented pixels that give the player easier ways 
 to strike enemies and deal even larger damage than their normal stomp attack.
  
  However, Super Paper Mario is still a well designed and fun game to play, and some points of its 
 character dialog are very humorous and entertaining. I would say that the game is a good buy and 
 worth the price, but is just not a classic to last the ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimjam54
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  In this side scrolling/3-D RPG game you will embark on an epic quest as Mario with his 3-D flipping 
 power, Peach with her parasol, Bowser with his fire, and Luigi with his awesome jumping abilities 
 in a battle against Count Bleck to save the worlds. Peach and Bowser are getting married and Mario 
 and Luigi are invited but just after the I dos Count Bleck appears and scatters our four heros 
 across the worlds. Along the way Mario and friends will be accompanied by Pixls each with their 
 own special power from throwing to ground-pounding they do it all. The game isn't the longest game, 
 but definately gives you your moneys worth especially with all the optional side quests. It definately 
 fits right in with the Mario franchise and will keep you entertained until Super Mario Galaxy comes 
 out later this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: papermariorulz
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  Well, well, well... I have played all paper mario games and loved them all. But Super Paper Mario 
 really stands out. Why?
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  I have always loved the 2d/3d graphic mix in Paper Mario, partly because Nintendo manages to get 
 the graphics so crisp and clean. The Paper Mario world is colorful and vibrant making games like 
 Zelda seem dull and boring.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  This game is all about fun and fun gameplay. To most it would seem boring at first... Hold the 
 Wii remote sideways and go side scroll through levels... Dont be fooled by this! With the ablility 
 to go in and out of 3d keeps the gameplay fresh because you'll want to explore every nook and kranny 
 in each level! Plus you can play as all your favourite characters like Peach, Luigi and even Bowser. 
 Now instead of partners you find pixl's. Little fairy like creatures that give you abilities like 
 using a hammer or doing the butt stomp.
  
  Sound: 10/10 A great mix of new and old tunes that are perfect accompiants to the levels and cutscene.
 
  
  Replay Value: 10/10
  Most people say this game has little replay but dont worry. There's plenty to do after the games 
 main storyline like finding the 4 bonus pixls, the flipside and flopsides pits of trials and more.
 
  
  In conclusion if you own a Wii, you must buy this game. Makes a great starter game along with Wii 
 Sports. Lets a Go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  The Good: It's Mario on the Wii!, memorable characters and story, great level design, turning 3D 
 is really neat, decent length
  
  The Bad: ... It's another Mario, missing RPG elements makes things easier, story is too predictable, 
 even though the graphics are nice they feel old, not extremely challenging, text reading is really 
 annoying
  
  The first two things about the new Paper Mario is that Nintendo chucked the RPG elements and, in 
 turn, made it more accessible for casual gamers by bringing Mario back to his roots with the good 
 'ol platforming. The second thing is that you can now use Mario and flip into 3D for a certain 
 amount of time to find new paths, solve puzzles, and find new items. The story here though is it's 
 strong point. Mario has to, once again, save the world from a new minion known as Count Bleck. 
 Mario has to get 7 Pure Hearts to counter act all worlds being sucked in by The Void. Along with 
 you are the 4 heroes Mario, Peach, Bowser, and Luigi. Each character has their special attributes 
 to solve puzzles etc. The graphics are crisp, sharp, and refreshing yet they still feel old and 
 they don't push the Wii's limits one bit. Also, since they RPG elements were cut the strategy has 
 been taken out and may turn Paper Mario vets off. Also, the story is to predictable too early on. 
 Even though the story can be beaten in 15-20 hours it still feels somewhat short. No matter though 
 if you love Mario or just want a platformer pick this gem up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertcoombs8
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  The Super Paper Mario Series is a good one but this game seems the worst of the three. I'm not 
 saying it's not worth playing but if you have played Super Paper Mario or Super Paper Mario: The 
 Thousand Year Door, you will be able to tell it's lost some importent features. The major one is 
 their is no more battles just jump or hit and move that's it. Another is that you have to use a 
 Pixl to use the Hammer limiting the other Pixl's time. Also the Bosses are way to EASY like the 
 2nd Final one took me 2 Minutes which effects the shortness of the game. But the good is that you 
 can go 3D and turn it in a whole diffrent view. The Game uses the Wii remote limitly but succesfully. 
 So if you love the Paper Mario Series Get The Game. If you have never played one of the three rent 
 first to make sure you enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Video_Tycoon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is a game for the Nintendo Wii, it is a very great game, but it could have been 
 better.
  
  In Super Paper Mario, you have to stop Count Bleck from destroying all worlds. Fun right? So you, 
 as Mario, need to extend your party from just you to 4 people, youself, Princess Peach, Bowser 
 and Luigi.
  
  There are these things called Pixels that help you get through areas. The first one you get, Tippi, 
 will give you tips if you ever get stuck. She also will show hidden things.
  
  Flipping as it is commonly called is something you can do about half an hour into the game, but 
 only as Mario. It lets you flip from your classic 2D Super Mario Game to a 3D Game like super Mario 
 Sunshine, but this time, you're paper.
  
  This game is overall fun and utilizes the Wii Remote, but not often. If you know you're way through 
 the game, you'll only be using the motion sensor capabilites a few times. This may appeal to the 
 core gamers out there, but it probably wouldn't if you are new to gaming.
  
  Gameplay is very fun, and the controls are great, but the game can get a little confusing from 
 time to time if you don't know what you are doing.
  
  The grapics are average, the 2D graphics are simply amazing for a Mario game, but the 3D needs 
 work, you will find yourself using your shadow to place yourself where you want to.
  
  The sound in this game are really great, the music isn't that varied though. If you are a long-time 
 Mario fan, you still keep your jumping and block smashing classic sounds.
  
  The Value for this game is average. If it does lower in price in the future, the value would be 
 way better. If you are a long time Mario fan, this is a buy, but if this would be you're first 
 Mario game, I'd lean towards renting but it would be good as a buy, still. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xNYROCx
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 16, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  This just didn't do it for me.
  
  First of all, the Pixls. I just didnt like to idea. The fact that you could only have one ability 
 at a time made you have to constantly go into the menu to change it. in the others, the abilities 
 stayed with you the whole time, so your partners could be doing other things. Then there are more 
 components, so the puzzles can be that much more challenging.
  
  Which brings me into number 2. the puzzles. They were (for the most part) painfully easy, bringing 
 down the play time, and making the game less fun.
  
  Third, The battle system. This game completely lacked a battle system. it was just hitting free 
 range. i would rather have turn-based style fighting. I know this is sort of going back to the 
 roots with the mario games of jumping on enemies, but that's for adventure games, not RPGs.
  
  On a more positive note, i think the flip thing where it changed the POV was very innovative.
 
  
  If nintendo makes another paper mario, i wish it would be in the image of the original or TYD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JM121
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  GamePlay: A very original platformer/RPG hybrid. But having to pause the game constantly to switch 
 pixels can get really annoying. Keeping me from giving gameplay a 10. Also, the motion sensitive 
 controls feel tacked on. Other than that, most of the gameplay is solid.
  
  
  Graphics: When in 2D the graphics are bright and colorful, but when you switch to 3D, the graphics 
 can look really bland. Sound: I don't know what some people have been talking about. I really liked 
 the music in this game. Most of the songs were very catchy and a few times I have caught myself 
 humming the Flipside song. Value: This game is a solid rent. I wouldn't recommend buying it though. 
 It isn't long enough for a buy unless you like replaying games.
  
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I don't really understand this category Summary: I really enjoyed this game. It's 
 gameplay is really simple and it's hard to put the controller down after picking it up. And even 
 though this game may appear childish, it's filled with very well written and witty dialog. I also 
 really enjoyed the segment before the boss battle with Francis. Thank you for taking the time to 
 read my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: visionedorange
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 13, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is a great game the combines modern day RPG style elements with old school mario 
 platforming. The result is a great game that I really enjoyed, that had a good, long campaign, 
 that take around 15+ hours to complete. There are many little bonus levels and things to do in 
 the game, and a great, truly gripping storyline, that'll get you wondering just whats going on. 
 However, i will worn anyone whose interested in buying this game, RENT IT DO NOT BUY IT, if you 
 buy it (new atleast) you will beat it and most likely be bored of it. Even though its a great game 
 with a great stroyline and fun gameplay, it wasn't a game that i wanted to play again and again 
 after I beat it. However, it is most definetly worth a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johno1995
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 13, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario started out as the GameCube-exclusive sequel to Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year 
 Door. It was quickly outnumbered by the next-gen system hype, and was, seemingly, completely lost. 
 It was moved silently to the Wii, Nintendos new and wonderful system. The first two Paper Mario 
 games are a small, yet wonderful spot in the Mario universe. Both are great, yet utterly simple 
 games that became GREAT games on the Nintendo 64 and, GameCube, respectively. Even more so, the 
 first two games in the series shared more in common with Super Mario RPH: Legend of the Seven 
 Stars for the SNES, than they do with the platforming style of the core Mario titles. Neither 
 game got as much attention as it deserved because of its late arrival and departure from the series 
 core. I was disappointed when I heard of Super Paper Marios departure off the GameCubes list 
 of upcoming games. When I saw it on the Wii list, I was excited because I knew that Intelligent 
 Systems and Nintendo NEVER rush a game, even when its moved onto another console when it started 
 on a completely different console. Super Paper Mario is one of the rare games that brings back 
 good old gaming experiences from the past and mixes them with new ideas that make it a very new, 
 and improved, experience. Its a very complex game to say the least, and filled with dozens of 
 levels and even a daring challenge called The Pit of 100 Trials. Ill get there later, but first, 
 lets talk about the gameplay and story. The story, while very good, seems too complex to be a 
 Mario story. Prophecies are being told, and the main villians (Count Bleck, Dimentio, Mimi, Nastasia 
 and OChunks) are on duty to make sure the Dark Prognositcuss prophecy (a dark and dim ending) 
 comes true. Another prophecy, the Light Prognositcus, holds the key to stopping the prophecy of 
 the Dark Prognositcus coming true. Four heroes will emerge and save the world by collecting eight 
 Pure Hearts to destroy Blecks Chaos Heart and stopping a vortex that is trying to swallow the 
 world. Theres a lot of story going back and forth between characters and some of it is very confusing 
 for its own good. But, the gameplay really boosts this game up. You play as Mario, Peach, Bowser 
 and Luigi, who all have special abilities that can stop the Dark Prognositcus from coming true, 
 for they are the four Light Heroes. You start out as Mario, but in the 2nd Chapter you unlock Peach, 
 the 3rd you unlock Bowser, andumI believe the 8th (?) chapter you unlock Luigi. Mario is the 
 most significant of the four because hes the only one who can move between the second and third 
 dimensions, a very important part of the game. Marios nifty ability is also the part of the game 
 that sets it apart from others. When you hit the A Button, the game world rotates to show you hidden 
 elements in 3D mode, other than the usual 2D Mario universe. It is a very clever feature, and something 
 that makes this game clearly unclassifiable. Intelligent Systems clearly understood the impact 
 it would make on the game, because all of the level designs are clever and very fun and challenging 
 to navigate through, and the rotating dimensions trick works great on every level. The designs 
 are very clever and thoroughly thought trough. The bosses are very challenging, and some are the 
 most original boss fights Ive ever been through (the Mimi spider boss fight, Im looking at you!) 
 and the graphics are just gorgeous! Flipping to 3D can also make some of the most menacing looking 
 enimies look like paperoh. because they are! You can easily skip past them, and move on with the 
 level. Using the Control Pad and holding the Remote Classic style are only a few nods to the 
 original Mario Bros. games on the NES and SNES, while some of the level designs are clearly inspired 
 by the old games. The sound is really absolutely nothing except music and a few grunts, but the 
 music that is there is very excellent and fits the game appropriately. The dialouge, although there 
 is a lot of it, is amusing and often hilarious. The games hilarious sense of humor and funny sequences 
 make this package an enjoyable experience. Super Paper Mario offers a deep, innovative experience 
 and the change from Paper Marios original action RPG formula to a platform-RPG hybrid is groundbreaking 
 and much funner to use. Kudos to the creators of this game because this is easily one of the Wiis 
 best games, and the best in the Paper Mario series. Easily reccomended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cruff1
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  This is the best game for the wii (other than Zelda) . I was suprised at how easily the 3-d fit into 
 the game. I thought that it would get confusing, but it really turned out great. The only problem 
 was that you could own everythin with bowser, and you only needed everyone elses special ability. 
 The enemies were great some of em really pissed me off like the red tofu things on 8-3. They did 
 really well making items for the game as well as the pixls. I was really suprised by the depth 
 of the story. Usually these cartoon-like games just have a bad guy doin bad stuff to people, but 
 the past of Count Bleck and Tippi was cool. Overall it was a pretty easy game that deserves high 
 marks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seabono12
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 12, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario does have some different things that the previous Paper Mario's haven't had. 
 For example instead of partners, you have pixls which are magical creatures who basically do the 
 same thing that partners do. Also instead of going into a battle and take turns attacking, you 
 can just stomp and attack enimies whenever you want, kinda like the super mario games. Also, your 
 not just Mario, you can be Peach, Bowser, and Luigi, you need all four of these players to get 
 through the game. Each character (not including mario) you meet a certain point in the game and 
 they decide to join you. After all it does say four heroes in the prophecy. All and all this was 
 a great installment to the paper mario series and this is a must-have for all mario gamer's collection! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ako389
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  A game that combines platformers and RPG's in a wonderful twist. A game that truly shows off what 
 Nintendo is capable of. This game adds innovative 3-D effects to great puzzles along with character 
 abilities and pixls. It really makes the player want more and more. Its gameplay brings back memories 
 to other Mario games making a sure-fire classic. This game is a good game without taking 40 hours 
 to complete unless you are a completionist. One of those games that side quests are huge and really 
 add to the fun and make the game much better. A must have for video game fans period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NuclearKidX
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 12, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Super paper Mario is a great addition to paper Mario series. Good story, characters, and plot, 
 Its funny to boot!
  
  This new paper Mario features 4 playable characters: Luigi, Mario, Princess Peach, And king koopa 
 Bowser. They all have unique special abilities that are necessary to beat the game. On top of that, 
 you get pixils as you progress through the game. Pixils are small creatures that grant their users 
 abilities, for example: Shrinking, See things Invisible to the naked eye, and create a barrier 
 of spikes around you for a short period of time. You start off with one pixil.
  
  The story and characters are very nice, its got its own fair share of plot twists to keep you guessing. 
 There are puzzles, easy and hard. If you cannot solve a puzzle, there is a fortune teller that 
 will give you hints for a certain fee, depending on how far you are in the story. It has the classic 
 level up system, when you level up you will gain HP +5 or attack +1, the power up alternates between 
 levels. It has a fair amount replay value, and side quests.
  
  Overall this is a great game that deserves a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Treize_
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 11, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario for the Nintendo Wii. What can I say. Ever since it all started on the Nintendo 
 64, i've loved the series. I picked it up about a month after it was released, and was not disappointed. 
 Super Paper Mario is an amazing game that any Mario fan will love. That any fan of fun will love. 
 It is appropriate for all ages, kids and adults. It has a great story, and can be very funny at 
 points. You start the game only with Mario, but you will eventually be able to control Peach, then 
 Luigi, even Bowser. Each character has their own unique ability. Mario is the only one who can 
 make the area 3D. Peach can float and smack enemies with her umbrella, Bowser has fire breath, 
 and Luigi jumps really, really high. It has so many puzzles that will have you stumped, unless 
 your really smart and know what character to use and when you should go into 3D mode. Otherwise, 
 for more amateur Super Paper Mario players, you'll have your eyes glued to a game guide. It is 
 well worth the money and a must have for anyone who likes to have fun. There are only three reasons 
 not to get this game. 1. You do not have a Nintendo Wii. 2. You hate fun. 3. There's pie at your 
 house and you are temporally holding off buying the game, but after you finish the pie go straight 
 to Future Shop. Or Best Buy. Or EB Games. Or any nearby game store. Have fun with Super Paper Mario! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death919
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 10, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Super Paper Mario does what no game has done before - it combines the Platformer genre 
 with the RPG genre. It amazes me just how well this combination ended up working out - SPM is probably 
 my favourite Wii game so far (probably tied with Zelda: Twilight Princess) . The game plays out 
 like a platformer, but with a catch: most of the time the game is a 2D side-scroller, but using 
 one of Mario's abilities, you can flip into 3D. It's really cool and adds alot of interesting puzzles. 
 You also find Pixls throughout the game, which are these little creatures that have abilities used 
 to solve puzzles. For example, one Pixl turns you on your side while you're in 2D, so that when 
 you stand still, you're invisible. Another works like a hammer which can be used to hit switches 
 or defeat enemies. Both Pixls and switching between 2D and 3D make up the bulk of the games puzzles 
 and do an excellent job.
  
  However, while what I described above sounds like a platformer, the game also feels very much like 
 an RPG. For example, as Mario defeats enemies, he games experience (referred to as your Score in 
 the game) , and he can level up, increasing either his Max HP or his Attack Power. Furthermore, 
 the game is VERY text heavy. You'll almost be reading as much as you're actually playing in some 
 parts. The storyline is nicely done, and the dialogue is witty and hilarious. I never thought moustache 
 jokes could be so funny! Overall, SPM has awesome and innovative gameplay, combined with hilarious 
 dialogue.
  
  Graphics and Sound: The graphics in the game are amazing. Sure, the game could probably be done 
 on the GCN or even the N64, but the style is just so innovative that I can't help loving it. Everything 
 is bright and colourful, and is pretty much what you would expect from the Paper Mario series. 
 The sound is excellent as well, and the music and sound effects are all nicely done.
  
  Value: By platformer standards, SPM is a long game, but by Role-Playing standards, its length is 
 under average. Regardless, I feel like it lasted the perfect amount of time. When I beat the game, 
 I was at 25 hours played. Plus, the game lets you continue playing even after you've already beaten 
 it, and there are plenty of things to do, such as the Pit of 100 Trials (there are 2 of them in 
 this game as well!) . So overall, while it's no Zelda in terms of length, the games still pretty 
 meaty and should last you a while.
  
  Tilt: Overall, Super Paper Mario is an amazing game. I never imagined that it would be THIS good. 
 Not only will it keep you laughing out loud the whole way through, but it's got some great gameplay 
 as well. The storyline is entertaining as well, and has a few twists throughout that are pretty 
 cool, and everything looks and sounds top knotch. It'll also last you a pretty long time. In the 
 end, I highly recommend this game to all Wii owners. It's an incredible game that you should not 
 miss out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGreenToad
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 10, 2007 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This Paper Mario plays almost nothing like its predecessors. There are still RPG elements 
 but the game has become more about platforming. If you kill a lot of enemies you get stronger but 
 that is about it. The game plays like Super Mario Bros. You play in linear levels going from left 
 to right killing goomba, koopas and many other enemies. There are however a good amount of puzzles 
 and platforming that is plenty more complex than the NES days. The game however takes a very innovative 
 step by making the game play in 2 different dimensions. When you press the A button (if you are 
 Mario) the 2d world flips into 3d. This adds depth to puzzles, boss battles or even empty rooms. 
 It gives a whole new perspective about everything you see in 2d. There are pixels which are little 
 assistants that grant you powers and a cast of characters with different abilities too. The game 
 is simple and can be taken at whatever pace you want. The gameplay is very different from past 
 games, but still just as much enjoyable. The only real major gripe is the difficulty really is 
 laughable. I never even came close to dying in this game. There is a lot of dialogue in this game 
 and you might hear it's monotonous, but I was never annoyed by it. There is some nice witty humor 
 here because the game doesn't take itself too seriously; c'mon it's a Mario game.
  
  Graphics: If you liked the graphics in Paper Mario and the Thousand Year Door you will feel right 
 at home. The character images are pretty much exactly the same, but the environments look different. 
 Not better, but different. There was not a lot of change in the graphics departments and I feel 
 the developers could have put a little more effort in that area. The 3d environments also don't 
 look to great simply because they are bland but that is because the 3d worlds tend to be mostly 
 empty.
  
  Sound: The music in this game is fine. Sound effects are fine too. Nothing notable or memorable, 
 but its all nice. Really nothing much else to say here.
  
  Value: You can get as much out of this game as you want. If you are a light gamer you can finish 
 the main storyline within a week or two easily. If you are a bit more serious there are extra pixels 
 and challenges like the Pit of 100 trials. For you hardcore gamers there are a ton of enemy cards 
 which are somewhat similar to badges and it takes an eternity to get them all. I still have not 
 done it. There is plenty to do in this game just not much from the main quest. It seems a little 
 on the short side, probably due to the lack of difficulty.
  
  Tilt: This is a good game. It's very good, but there just isn't enough here to make it truly great. 
 This is a fun experience and is very accessible, and I think every Wii owner should own this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xo_xjennyx_xo
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 10, 2007 12:08 am PT
Review:  Paper Mario for the WIi: It's too Expensive! The game play was simple and fun. Imaginative switching 
 between two dimensional and 3D, to solve puzzles. You are MArio, but you can switch between the 
 Princess and Bowser. The Princess can jump and hang in the air a la Mario 2 (NES) Bowser shoots 
 fire and busts up the place... Also able to pay as Luigi. There is too much in the way of RPG style 
 conversation between characters, but some of it is fun if you like to read the stroy. Colorful, 
 Creative worlds that keep you guessing... but only for about two weeks! The value of the game was 
 low! That's why we say it's better than a 7.2. But make sure you play it with buddies ! Enjoy in 
 an altered state of mind! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: use_da_schwartz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 13, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  This series I'm now finding similar to the Spider-Man movies. The first was great. The second was 
 better. This one was good, but it did not make the same impact as the first two. Kinda unfortunate. 
 Three-quels don't seem to be doing very well this year. I hope Rush Hour isn't the same.
  
  Gameplay is fine. However there isn't much action until the very last world, (and the Pits of 100 
 Trials) which is the best one of the eight. The puzzles are well-designed, some are intricate, 
 but most of them are pretty easy, which keeps the game moving. You got up to four main characters 
 to play as (I say up to 'cause you'll be playin' with two or three most of the time) . You have 
 many weird little pals that also aid you in your quest. The main one you use is Tippi, whose power 
 allows you to get more info on something by pointing at it with the Wii Remote. It can also reveal 
 something that is invisible to the naked eye. No, it's not like a microscope. I will say that this 
 game, even though it is the worst of the three in the series, it does have the best storyline. 
 And it also does have the same humor it had in the other two games. Although, someone said that 
 they really tried way too hard to be hilarious, and I have to partially agree with him. I was surprised 
 when I saw the graphics in this game. They're not horrible, but one thing that I've noted in this 
 series is that it always has some of the smoothest graphics. They're not very visually appealing, 
 but appealing enough to make me give the previous two games a better score. In this one there were 
 more notable flaws than in the others. Again, unfortunate.
  
  Music is pretty good. But main credits again go to the last world. Did they only put in their best 
 efforts in the last world? This storyline took me 20 hours to beat. It should've taken me 15. But 
 because of a few major silly mistakes (I'm talking about puzzles that took me forever to get through 
 because I was being stupid) . Replay value gets raised a bit because of the few, but long-lasting 
 side-quests that you can do that mostly consist of the number 100. The TWO Pits of 100 Trials. 
 (TWO! Count 'em! TWO!) and the Sammer Kingdom's 100 gates (that one sucks though) These 3 sidequests 
 add about 5-6 hours to the game, which is not bad. Thousand-Year Door is still the Mario RPG that 
 took me the longest to beat, standing at 31 hours. the TWO (Again! TWO!) Pits of 100 Trials add 
 about 3 1/2-4 hours without the Sammer Kingdom's 100 gates. I thought this was a great idea at 
 first, but in reality, if they stuck to the traditional Paper Mario RPG, this would've been, quite 
 possibly, the perfect game. They should've done that and called this Paper Mario: Prophecy of the 
 Dark Prognosticus, or something like that. I enjoyed this game, but I hope that in the future, 
 if Nintendo makes a fourth Paper Mario, they do not make a second Super Paper Mario, and that they 
 stick to the turn-based Paper Mario that we know and love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shanerfin
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 9, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  This game had it's ups and downs but overall I loved it. If you have any classic Mario in you then 
 this game wont dissapoint. The biggest complaint I have is it doesnt take full advantage of the 
 wii remote and nunchuk. The game does use them every now and then but for the most part your just 
 holding the remote sideways walking along as Mario. But if you really want a good game that will 
 help you fall in love with your wii or mostly nintendo, you might like this game. But my sugestion 
 is rent it and if you don't beat it rent it again. But it's not worth 50 bucks Because it has poor 
 replay value. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sora364
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 8, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is Nintendos third installment in the on going Paper Mario franchise. The story 
 sets off as our two favorite plumbers converse with one another at their home. Luigi proposes that 
 he and Mario visit Princess Peach. As they head out, they are immediately alerted that the Princess 
 has once again been kidnapped. The two instantaneously suspect Bowser and head directly to his 
 castle to confront him. Little to their knowledge, Bowser is completely oblivious to the kidnapping 
 as he is preparing to abduct her himself. A new rival, Count Bleck appears, and kidnaps Bowser, 
 his minions, and Luigi, but leaves Mario behind. It is revealed that Bleck intends to marry both 
 Bowser and Peach for he may attain the Chaos Heart a heart said to bring destruction and disaster 
 to all worlds. This is foretold in an ancient prophecy entitled The Dark Prognostics. After he 
 succeeds in marrying the two, darkness slowly begins to engulf all worlds. As Mario, you will encounter 
 a friendly pixl by the name of Tippi. She leads you to an area known as Flipside, the place where 
 the player will be mostly be when they arent in other worlds. Here is where you meet Merlon, a 
 sage who informs Mario of the Light Prognostics and the hero depicted *who fits Marios description* 
 will be the one to save all worlds. Hence your journey begins to collect the 7 pure hearts in order 
 to counter balance the chaos heart and defeat Count Bleck.
  
  The presentation of Super Paper Mario is both unorthodox and exquisite. As its predecessors, it 
 is a reminiscent of the old school SNES titles. Once again the Paper aspect of it flows heavily 
 with the environments and gameplay. Make no mistake the 2D like structure does not warrant a bland 
 and generic atmosphere as some would expect. The game flawlessly provides that classic feel while 
 at the same time being easy on the eyes. On a musical notation, Nintendo has not failed on providing 
 fresh and original music to supplement the experience. Many tunes are catchy and bring more emotion 
 to the environment or the dramatic scene that may be into play.
  
  The game exploits subtle use of the Wiis Wii Remote. Players will use the Wii Remote to reveal 
 hidden objects and platforms frequently though out the game using Tippi by simply pointing the 
 remote at the screen. Escape from certain enemy attacks or item usage may also call for using the 
 remote. Making a return from previous titles, the style feature has returned. After jumping on 
 an enemys head, by shaking the remote after a jump, Mario will perform tricks in the air and also 
 boosting your score to new heights. The A button is essential to completing the game, as it is 
 used to make Mario shift through dimensions (2D/3D) . Using this ability will reveal either hidden 
 passages or inaccessible areas that cannot be reached in 2D. This keeps the player alert of their 
 surroundings; making sure they examine every nook and cranny in order to proceed. The gameplay 
 bears a profound semblance to earlier Mario titles. The player will be constricted to a 2D environment 
 with standard platforming. Players will be hopping from block to block quite periodically. But 
 the dimensional shift ability known as Flipping keeps the action fresh.
  
  It should also be noted that the game has retained some of its RPG Elements. As your score builds 
 up, so does your level. Leveling up primarily increases your health and strength. But the feature 
 does give the player a sense of progression. Aside from that, the game is purely action adventure. 
 As you play through the game, you will gain both new allies (each unique in their own particular 
 way) and pixls. These pixls will have a tremendous influence on the players gaming experience. 
 There will be obstacles impassable without their aid. For example, the first pixl (not including 
 Tippi) you meet, Thoreau has the ability the grab foes and other block like objects. There will 
 sometimes be switches out of Marios reach but can be only be hit by using Thoreau due to his unique 
 trait. In some instances the time for using them will be dead obvious. At others, it can grow rather 
 perplexing and annoying because you have to observe everything carefully.
  
  The game is also subject to many puzzles. Each puzzle can only be solved with patience, because 
 some are so irritating to figure that it takes a great deal strategic thinking to solve them. Many 
 times, the answer to many riddles will be right there in the players face. But the clues can be 
 so vague that recognizing them instantly will rarely happen. Even more so, the game will give the 
 player the answers directly. This brings much Damn it! How could I not figure that out!? moments. 
 Dialogue is abundant in this game. As expected, the game is devoid of much voice acting (not including 
 several grunts or sound effects) . But the story is so well written, it will not prove much as a 
 bother. The sheer depth of it may seem light hearted, but it has many emotional moments with unexpected 
 plot twists. The gripping story will draw the player in, compelling them further to play the game. 
 As always, the eccentric humor is present as always as in the earlier games. While the characters 
 may be in the most serious or predicaments, they manage to make the player pull off a laugh or 
 two in the process. I can barely count how many times I have laughed in this game.
  
  In short, this game is an absolute must have for any Nintendo Wii Owner. Period. It has its set 
 backs, but in the end the game is brilliant. What are you waiting for? Get this game now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 8, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  If you look at The wii Libary you will find that most of the games are mini games that teach you/ 
 show you what the Wii controler can do.. its ok for a little while but even now we are still getting 
 new Wii games that just show off the Wii controls.. i think were at a time where hey look at me 
 i can move my arm to control the game yea!.. But The only Real Single Player games on the Wii right 
 now Is The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess and This the 3rd installment to the Paper Mario series 
 that does something totally different then the first two Paper Mario Games.. This game might loose 
 some hard core RPG fans in the process but it opens up to much more people..
  
  As you can expect this is A Paper Mario game so you know you will have Paperish Graphics, Funny 
 Storyline, and All the Mushroom Chracters make there presence.. The Story goes where an Evil Magic 
 man Cast a spell over the Mushroom Kingdom and orders Princess Peach and Bowser to Wed : ( so he 
 can Realease the Black Heart that will suck away everything into a Black Hole of Darkness.. Now 
 You Must Get pure hearts to save the World From Utter Darkness.. Yea its not the Greatest but the 
 storyline is funny and if you read it don't be surprised if you break out into laughter at least 
 once while playing this game. If you played Any Paper Mario Game you know that the Battle Sequences 
 are You Hit I hit taking turns until the foe is out of health.. well now in Super Paper Mario that 
 is completely Gone from the game.. but that does not mean there is no RPG elements in the game.. 
 You still got Health Bars, Items that effect the Bad Guys and attack and Defense Levels.. In a 
 Normal Mario Game when you get hit you turn tiny hit agian and your dead.. not in Paper Mario.. 
 But when you get hit your Health goes down.. different but cool. Also this game Features things 
 call Pixels.. They are little Guys that follow you around that do certain task.. Like Hammer, Ground 
 Pound etc.. finding the right ones are the right time is needed to complete the game.. Also you 
 have other Playable characters Like Peach who can Float with her Marry Poppins Inspired Umbrella, 
 Bowser who can blow fire and Luigi who can.... jump higher.. then you have your main Character 
 Mario! who has a new move where he can switch from 2-D to 3-D but it does damage to his health 
 if he stays in 3-D too long.. in this game it make you think differently many things you can't 
 see until you flip to 3-D.. its quite nice that they make you solve puzzles that are both in 3-D 
 and 2-D.. Super Paper Mario takes a good time to complete... there are lots of hidden secrets and 
 puzzles that keep this game going.. but after you beat the main quest there really is nothing to 
 do.. no Multiplayer to Speak of and no Online or reason to play the story agian unless you really 
 love it..
  
  Super Paper Mario also uses the Wii differently.. You hold the Remote to its side like a NES controler 
 and the only senser controls are shaking the wii remote to get combo and bonus points off jumps 
 or using it as a flashlight to discover unsee objects.. Even though this is in fact a port and 
 was suppose to be on the Gamecube.. Making it for the Wii is a lot more fun and some of the things 
 in the game you can't possibly do/ be as fun if you on a normal controler.. Overall Super Paper 
 Mario gives us the Next Hardcore game for the Wii.. still so many Casual games but its really nice 
 to play a Paper Mario game for the Wii.. Hopfully we will get another sequel to this great game
 
  
  Gameplay: Great Level Designs and Fun Puzzles make this game very enjoyable and switching from 
 2-D to 3-D is really cool to put into the game!
  Graphics: Its Paper Mario Graphics they are ok but this game is not so big on the graphics side.. 
 but when switchin to 3-D its kinda empty
  Sound: Cool sounds.. nothing too crazy or good but solid Value: You can complete this game in a 
 few days but after that its done.. the only thing in this game is the single player mode
  Overall: This is prob. my Favorite Paper Mario Game and this Game just Plain Rocks! go out and 
 pick it up if you havent yet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Labrador_RIP
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 7, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is the third game in the Paper Mario series. For me, it was THE game to play 
 on the Wii (sorry Zelda fans) . Its still a mix of platforming and RPG but this time platforming 
 has a bigger role.
  
  The main feature of the game is the very cool ability for Mario to go from 2D (old-school side-scrolling) 
 to 3D (new school  lol) . You will use this ability a lot during 
 the game, you can find hidden items, hidden tunnels, get past obstacles and explore areas of the 
 game world you cant see in 2D mode. You can even use it to defeat enemies.
  
  As the story goes on, you will come across Pixls who gives your characters (Mario, Luigi, Peach 
 and Bowser) special abilities like picking up objects, throwing bombs, become slim, tiny, etc. 
 Although any character can use any Pixl, only Mario has the ability to go 3D making him the most 
 useful character. I used Mario like 80% of the time, leaving the others as simple puzzle tools. 
 The only exception is Bowser who really #?&amp;** ass.
  
  Speaking of the puzzles, they are pretty easy, you wont spend endless hours trying to solve them. 
 All we want is stomping Goombas right? This makes the game better IMO. All you need is the right 
 character or Pixl and voila. And if you really cant find how, Tippi can tell you
  
  The controls are simple and fun (as expected for a Wii game) . You will use only the remote sideways. 
 The A is to go 3D, 1 for the Pixl ability and 2 for jumping. Point the remote at the screen and 
 Tippi will identify objects for you (even hidden ones &amp;#61514;) . The use of various items in 
 your inventory has a specific control scheme (shaking, tilting or pointing the remote) . My only 
 problem with the control is that its a bit slippery, making platforming on narrow. platforms 
 difficult.
  
  The 2D graphics are really nice, sharp and charming. Everything is in bright color and there are 
 many cool looking special effect to look at. When going 3D it gets a little less well. I dont 
 know if its the hardware or the fact that this is a Gamecube port but you cant see very far ahead 
 of you and there is a bit off pop up (like in hold your breath Virtua Racing on the Genesis hehe) . 
 But this does not hurt the gameplay at all.
  
  The biggest complaint I can make on the game is about its difficulty. I think it was set to low 
 and you wont find much of a challenge here. Combat has been simplified to real time action RPG 
 style and it hurts. I died only once in the whole game and it was in the Pit of 100 trials side 
 quest. I died at the 87th level because I didnt have ANY mushroom shakes from the start.
  
  What makes the game really stand out is its retro style. Everything there is meant to bring 
 up memories the NES days. A Shumps level, a boss battle presented as a Dragon Warrior combat, the 
 game goes as far as copying entire parts the original SMB levels.
  
  Overall, this is a very fun game to play. What it lacks in difficulty, it has in fun. I recommend 
 it to any Mario and retro games fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesbond8
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2007 3:03 am PT
Review:  Mario returns in an 2D/3D action-packed game where he has to save his buddies from Count Bleck 
 and his minions.
  
  Unlike its other predecessors, there is no RPG battle in it. Instead, it is the old jumping on 
 enemies with a twist, there are now damage point given by Mario and his gang's attacks to the enemies. 
 It's innovative style doesn't stop there. Mario can flip the world into 3D and back to 2D, Peach 
 can glide with her parasol, Luigi can jump high, and His Awfulness, Bowser, can breathe fire to 
 burn enemies. It has also interesting puzzles to crack and incredible great humor so you can enjoy 
 laughing. But the downside is that there are too much dialogue in the game. If there is lesser 
 dialogue, the game will have more action and humor.
  
  The graphics are cartoonish but not to an extent. It's cute and cool. The game itself has an outstanding 
 original soundtrack.
  
  This game is worth it if you don't mind the long dialogue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 6, 2007 11:49 pm PT
Review:  After being delayed like 2 times Paper Mario finally hit stores and it is a bit revolutionary. 
 Taking a 2D platformer and turning it on its side to reveal a whole 3D world behind it is a new 
 and exciting gameplay mechanic. This aspect of Mario's latest paper adventure works well and adds 
 excitement to the platforming roots of the game... at first. Towards the middle of the game I felt 
 like this mechanic was not being used to its full potential. With that said, making Super Paper 
 Mario a platformer was a great idea in itself, but the RPG elements really hinder it from fully 
 developing into what really could have been the next amazing platformer. After you get the hang 
 of flipping you will find that the game seems to drag on too much and becomes slightly boring. 
 Chapters 1-4 are kinda boring (except for a few memorable characters) and really leave a sour taste 
 in your mouth. Chapters 5-8 are amazing. The settings are interesting and the story is deeper and 
 more interesting than the first four chapters. The last half of the game really save Super Paper 
 Mario from being a disappointment. Most of the long winded RPG parts of the game seam more tedious 
 than entertaining. While you are stuck reading something, all you want to do is flip the level 
 and see what cool stuff you can find. I understand that Nintendo didn't want to alienate the RPG 
 audience that had grown accustom to the Paper Mario format, but by including the tediously long 
 story it effective slows the pace of the game too much. Super Paper Mario looks great but could 
 sound a lot better and offers some replay value with the cards and recipes to collect. It would 
 be really easy to put about 40 hours into the game and collect everything. I really enjoyed Super 
 Paper Mario but I really wonder if Nintendo plans on using the 2D-3D model on future games because 
 when used properly it could really contribute something great to a standard 2D platformer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexx88
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 6, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  A~W~E~S~O~M~E
  
  Gameplay- The world is basically in 2-d until you are able to flip into 3-d and go into backrounds. 
 The game for the most part is a platformer except that you have HP, Damage items, and Other playable 
 chars. The game also has the length of an RPG spanning over 20 hours to finish then after your 
 done with that you have so much to do in town, gaining items, finding a secret arcade and everything. 
 The game is kinda easy though but thats pretty much the only problem with the game. Bosses take 
 cunning to beat with all of them only being hurt in specific ways. The mini games in the secret 
 arcade are all motion sensitive for those people who think that their isn't much in the main game. 
 Their are also these little creatures called pixls the one that you first meet will be your guide 
 throughout the whole game until the end. The other pixls contain powers to make Mario and the gang 
 small, shields, attacks, see different stuff, etc. Speaking of other chars. There are 4 main ones 
 you play in the game Mario, Peach, Bowser, and Luigi all of which have special abilities. The games 
 gameplay has a lot can going for it.
  
  Graphics- Bright and colorful. With every little thing in great detail. The only problem is is 
 that its still not that much beyond Gamecube quality. Still looks amazing though.
  
  Sound- A great sound track, with quirky tunes that will just make you feel all warm inside. It 
 can be better but thats my only complaint.
  
  Value- Awesome and Amazing
  
  Tilt- Fun for all! Any Mario fan should pick this up!
  
  Overall 9.8/10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew020889
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 5, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game thinking it was going to be like the other Paper Mario games and it turns out 
 this game is almost completely different... In a good and kind of bad way. Now this game is considered 
 a RPG but it plays like a platformer. So there are no RPG battles but you level up and gain new 
 abilities like a RPG. So with the RPG element out of this game it left me a little dissapointed. 
 But there is some good to this game. The platforming part of the game is still fun. And Mario has 
 a new power that lets him flip his 2D world into 3D. This gives you plenty to explore and do. Compared 
 to the other Paper Marios this one isnt as good. But just because it isnt as good doesnt mean its 
 a bad game. Its a really good game still in fact. It has a great story that actaully is meaningfull, 
 unlike the majority of story lines in Mario games. Plenty of sidequests to do and things to collect. 
 It still has the comedy that you found in the other Paper Mario games. So overall its just a good 
 game.
  
  The only reason this game didnt get a higher score is because it isnt really a RPG like the other 
 games, and it ended up being very short. It took me less than 20 hours to beat the game. Now there 
 are other things to do, but you still probably wont play longer than 30 hours. Those are minor 
 things but negative things nonetheless. It is another great Wii title. A must own for any fan of 
 the Mario series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcheek13
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 5, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  I had heard so much about Super Paper Mario before I got it that I was really afraid I was going 
 to be let down, I was afraid it was another game that would become over rated. When I started the 
 game off I realized that it wasn't what I thought it would be there is a lot of humor in the cut 
 scenes and the story was well written and very fun to keep a long with. The gameplay is fun and 
 innovative and very easy to learn. I love the fact that my girlfriend enjoys to play as well as 
 my hardcore gaming buddies, we all love it. The game is innovative and original and a must have 
 for anyone who owns a Nintendo WII console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HK-47-M4
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Being a newcomer to the Paper Mario Series, I decided to rent it. But man I wished I had purchsed 
 this. This is probably one of the best games on Wii right now, second only to the Legend of Zelda: 
 Twilight Princess. But there a few problems that keep this game from being perfect, mostly the 
 gameplay.
  
  While the gameplay is generally good, it is difficult to find out where to go next and often you 
 will have to flip between dimensions (Mario's special ability) at certain places, but you will 
 have no idea where those places are. The boss fights also tend to get repetitive since you fight 
 the same people and the formula to fight them is the same. Also Pixls, little things that have 
 special powers to help you, feel gimicky. Some of the Pixls you get are only used once or twice, 
 making them feel like they were just thrown in. Some Pixls aren't even needed. There is alot of 
 text to read as well and the story is kind of lame. By the time you actually understand the story, 
 you will have missed out on the beginning and middle parts. But you have to play the game to see 
 what I mean.
  
  But the game picks up elsewhere. The more cartoony looking graphics are great on Wii and look fantastic. 
 There are no problems with sound. This game is pretty long and after you beat the main mode you 
 can do lots of extras and you should really enjoy this game.
  
  My advice: If you are waiting for upcoming Wii games such as Metroid Prime 3: Corruption, then 
 this is a great way to pass the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yomamathe4th
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 4, 2007 1:47 am PT
Review:  im sorry but this game just seemed to.... intuitive i meen it tried to be something new and succeded 
 but i miss the old paper mario style gameplay and the pixles got on my nerves and overall it was 
 a good game but just almost makes u a bit empty inside u no i liked this game but not as much as 
 i thought i would the hole 3d thing gets kinda repetitive but still this game is a great game to 
 get for wii still espicialy if ur a paper mario fan or even just a mario fan for that matter but 
 still it almost seems like a halfway finished game u no but still for 50 bucks go ahead and buy 
 it just don't expect much after u beat the game cause after tht it really gets dull 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Penguin93
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 4, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  Whats Better then a PS2 port? A Gamecube port. Whats The bad part about Gamecube ports? Tacked 
 on Controls. What nearly kills a game? Taking its famous RPG gameplay out and replacing it with 
 Platforming.... with tacked on controls.
  
  Alright, Maybe that was a little harsh. But lemme say. All of the above may be the Only real flaws 
 of the game.
  
  With a Great story. Great Characters. Great design. It's a shame that Super Paper Mario didn't 
 inherit the RPG gameplay from its past titles. Story... Well, because there is so much Text to read. 
 If you plan on Reading all the the Story before you play. It might take 15 minutes. Skip though, 
 it's 5.
  
  Lemme get to the point though. Count Bleck hold the Dark Prognosticus. As a Wizard in the town 
 of Flip side holds the Light Prognosticus. The Dark Prognosticus predicts that Count Bleck will 
 Create Chaos, and Destroy all worlds. But the Light Prognosticus States that Mario and 3 Other 
 Heroes must obtain 7 Life Hearts to Stop count Bleck. I'm not gonna ruin the whole story. So i'll 
 stop there.
  
  Gameplay. Well, like i said. What was once a Great RPG, has been converted into what almost all 
 Mario titles are. A Platformer. Although this is not as bad as i make it sound, and there are still 
 some RPG elements in the game. Such as Level development. But thats about l can think of. Don't 
 get me wrong. Super Paper Mario is a Great and Fun title. Being able to play as 4 characters. Collecting 
 Pixls. Pixls are little characters that Aid you and form into things. For example. There is a Hammer 
 Pixl, a Speed Pixl, a Ground Pound Pixl, and the list goes on. So it's got a Solid Single player, 
 and its a really fun game. Going into 3-D. Well, to be honest It really isn't Special., it's not 
 really fun. The 2-D Side scrolling is where the fun is.
  
  Graphics. Well, it is basically Paper. And it is a Gamecube port. But lemme say. This is a Great 
 looking Gamecube game. And is only half way decent for Wii Standards. But i will give it to them. 
 It is a 2-D game based on Paper. Although the 3-D Design is pretty Mediocre. Sound. Well there 
 are some nice tunes here and there. But it's the same you would expect from a Paper Mario game. 
 But still pretty decent sounds.
  
  Paper Mario is a Great game. It has a Solid Single Player, one which could have been Doubled if 
 it where an RPG, But you will enjoy every minute of it. Super Paper Mario will take you a good 
 20-30 hours to beat first time around. And many things to do Afterwards such as the Pit of a 100 
 trials.
  
  I Highly Recommend this Game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packster
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 4, 2007 12:11 am PT
Review:  This game is great in every way, it has the best puzzles than anygame in the universe! They are 
 challenging, unique, and well thought out, they use the new gameplay wisly, including the Wii controls 
 and the FLIP TO 3-at DThis game is also humerous at times. The graphics, for a 2-D game are cool. 
 BEST IN SERIES!.
  If You have a Wii.... Get it.
  
  But, TO many stops in the game and at the start
  are bad because you have to wait soooo long 
 to get playing, it starts to get disturbing and fruserating. But still, The enormous amout of Gameplay 
 and long levels make up for it!
  
  Very addictive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DVF44
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 7, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is a great game in the chain of Paper Mario games. The game has well thought 
 out and unique puzzles that will keep your mind perplexed for awhile. The game play is a tad over 
 easy as you just walk though the level and the only thing to stop you form progressing is the puzzles. 
 The game starts out slow, but after a while you won't be bored by the game. The graphics have a 
 lot of life and are very colorful. They give off the kiddish charms that we have known and grown 
 to love, but are very similar to those on the Nintendo 64 or the Gamecube Paper Mario's. The sound 
 is not something to aw about. Its not amazing but also it is not necessary to press the mute button. 
 There is a lot of reading involved in the game which is odd because you would think being a Wii 
 game it would have actual voices. There is not a lot of replay value to the game, but the game 
 makes up for the lack of replay value by the length of the game. Also there are no other game modes 
 to play which is another small disappointment in the game. Overall this game is worth the fifty 
 dollars and is a must play for anybody who owns a Nintendo Wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philcorey
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 3, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario for the Nintendo Wii, is a great platformer that offers great graphics for it's 
 kiddy theme. Very unique game play involving the classic elements of the Mario games and the very 
 interesting pixie powers you gain as you go along your quest. The game even encompasses the Wiimote 
 with the ability to point at the screen and look for hidden items that are not visible to Mario 
 without that pixie. But the main feature with this paper Mario game is the 3d ability. The game 
 has a great story line offering new villains and the ability to play as Bowser, Peach &amp; Luigi 
 aside from Mario. Keeping those things in mind, this is a RPG game. This means that there is a 
 lot of text and in this game, no voice acting! So you hear the scribble sound as text comes on 
 the screen. The story line is great but some of the side missions are just tedious and unnecessary. 
 If you want to beat this game, you need a game guide, wether it is a purchased one or online, you 
 need it because of the game's unpredictable nature, and the timesaving tips that you will get from 
 them.
  
  Some of the missions are great and have a really retro feel. Some however, are just boring and 
 you just wish it would end at times. Even with all these faults I still rate it a 8.9 because the 
 parts that are good are so good that it makes up for all the faults almost completely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super_Link_77
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  This game will disapoint you if you are looking for the quality of the first paper marios. Here 
 is the breakdown.
  
  This game is pretty short for an RPG/Platformer. I reached the end of the game thinking.... Thats 
 it?!?! I was disapointed in the legnth. The gameplay was good, with some puzzling challenges. I 
 also thought the bosses were way too easy... (with the exception of everyones favorite 4 black people) 
 the gameplay is ok.
  
  I liked the graphics. They were sharp, funny, not very childish. They were great style. They fit 
 this game very well,
  
  Sound is just average, you got your clasic mario voice acting (just the basic hmmmmmmm and things 
 like that) Its just what you would expect from a paper mario game.
  
  The value is good, but other games ares better. Heres how i suggest weather you should buy it or 
 not.
  
  If you have lots of money onhand=buy it
  If you are limited to a few games=dont buy it (there are better games) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bowlord
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 30, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  well, at the beginning you start with a long story, but funny. And then the game begins. The use 
 of the wiimote isn't very deeper, you move in the game using the wiimote sideway, moving using 
 the D-Pad, like an old-school game, aka super mario bros, metroid, kid icarus... Ok you use the 
 2 button to jump, and the 1 button to do another action, i will explained it later.
  ok this game isn't hard, so you will not have problem to pass the level without losing a single 
 life. The game combined RPG elements with a platform game. You have HP, and attack. Then you can 
 level up, and by this form you can improved your HP or Attack.
  The use of the pointer is so limited, you only used it to find hidden doors, and to use like a 
 pointer to select enemies and then show you details about them.
  A remarkable thing of this game is the use of a lil' buddies called Pixl, this guys, will give 
 you an ability that you will do by pressing the 2 button of the wiimote, the use of them, are because 
 the lack of buttons of the wiimote, you can ran, jump and then use a ground pound over the enemies. 
 No, you can't use all of this on a single move. You need to change your partner to have another 
 ability! WOW! i now can use the ground pound... and only that, to do another thing you need yo 
 select another Pixl... well that kill the action sometimes, but you will adapt to it at the end!
 
  But The strong fact about this game, is the story! yeah the story is amazing
  It take you inside the game, and makes you fill nostalgic sometimes, when you saw old buddies, 
 from old games, and new pals that you will have, it's very amazing! The environments are so attractive 
 and colorfully, and the use of other characters instead of mario, give to the game more replay-value 
 and a humorist ic style.
  
  So, in few words, this game is very addictive, it's very colorfully, have a great history! the 
 use of different characters, and stuff like that. The only bad point
  is that isn't very impressive the use of the wiimote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vonboy
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 30, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  When they threw out the turn-based battle system, they just kinda lost something that made the 
 previous two masterpieces. This just doesn't feel like a true sequel, but don't let that get in 
 the way to enjoying this game. This game would have gotten a better score if it was a longer game. 
 it'll take most people less then 20 hours to beat this game, so I would just recommend renting 
 this game instead of buying. There are some side quests after the main storyline, but I just didn't 
 enjoy them as much as the main storyline, which was very funny and had a lot of plot-twists. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uknownhero160
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun and addictive. With all the new characters called pixels the games seems new and 
 fresh .All this amazing puzzle solving adventure makes you want to play more and more.
  
  Even if sometimes the characters talk TO much and you wish they would just shut up , the game is 
 still great. I think they talk to much for two reasons:1. to explain the story precisely and 2. to 
 make us wait and to make a sort of suspense.
  
  Above all the game is wonderful and funny at times.
  
  So if you want a great, fun and funny 
 game come pick up Super Paper Mario!
  
  
  
  Thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SegaFan_Ssk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 28, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario takes the 2D side-scroller and revamps it for a new generation; taking the simple 
 yet addictive nature of the classic Mario games and mixes it with the modern platformer, as well 
 as RPG elements from the other Paper Mario games. Throughout the game you will be able to explore 
 both the world of 2D and 3D with Mario's newfound power to warp between them. Mario along with 
 the help of the Pixl, Tippi, and the other three heroes of the prophecy must all band together 
 in order to stop the mysterious Count Bleck from destroying all the dimensions in this fictional 
 universe. To do this Mario and co. must locate the eight Pure Hearts that are scattered throughout 
 the universe and also seek the help of other Pixls with special powers to aid them in their journey.
 
  
  The gameplay overall is pretty simple; by holding the Wii-mote sideways (like a NES controller) 
 you can control Mario like you would in any other 2D Mario game. The key difference is his ability 
 to shift the world from 2D to 3D so that he can find new routes around hazards and solve puzzles 
 that weren't possible in the 2D world. Along with Mario, you will be able to take control of Peach, 
 Bowser, and Luigi during the game. They can't flip to 3D like Mario, but they each add special 
 traits to the adventure from Peach's parasol to Bowser's fire breath to Luigi's super jump. Overall, 
 the control is very easy to get the hang of and it handles great; it's just like playing the original 
 Mario games. Even in 3D the game also handles pretty well, but the somewhat isometric view the 
 camera has on Mario can make it a bit awkward to land jumps while in 3D, and it can be a bit frustrating 
 at times.
  
  The graphics are reminiscent of Paper Mario: The Thousand Year Door for the Gamecube. The art style 
 used looks quite nice, and adds to the humourous (yet cheesy) storyline in the game. Everything 
 is more refined and polished since that game, but I think that this game wasn't pushing the Wii 
 as hard as it could graphically. The music wasn't anything stand out, it got the job done in many 
 cases, but some players may soon tire of it soon after starting to play. The sound effects were 
 what you'd expect in a Mario game; the classic jumping sounds of the characters, stomping an enemy, 
 hitting an item block and so on; they add to the game's charm as always and I never grow tired 
 of the sound of a Koopa shell hitting foe after foe. Overall, Super Paper Mario was an excellent 
 title and no Wii owner should miss out on this game. Not much in terms of graphics and music has 
 changed since The Thousand Year Door , but the great stroyline and solid gameplay more than make 
 up for it. It maintains that classic charm of the 2D Mario games from 20 years ago, and brings 
 it into the spotlight of the new generation. If you have a Wii or are picking one up soon, this 
 is a must have game for your expanding collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gwarlito
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 27, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  I'll get right down to the point. This game didn't need to be released on the Wii. Since it was 
 developed for the Gamecube, the Wii remote isn't utilized greatly (with the exception of shaking 
 the remote and pointing it at the screen) . That being said, the game as a whole is worthy of a 
 purchase.
  
  The game has the classic RPG elements as other Paper Mario games. When you are in Flipside (town) 
 there is little exploration and talking with town folk that is pretty standard. The true guts of 
 this game are the platforming levels. The concept from flipping from 2D to 3D is pretty sweet. 
 Another innovative idea from the great thinkers at Nintendo.
  
  The platforming levels to the game from level 1-1 to 8-4 are excellent. The level of difficulty 
 isn't extremely difficult, but the game has to make you think, and generally is a great game for 
 all types of players. The graphics are stellar and the game has a fresh cartoon look to it.
  
  My only true complaint is the time spent in the town (s) between the levels. It just slows down 
 the game from the intense platforming levels. In my opinion, it is a total drag at times, and I 
 thought the game suffers greatly from this.
  
  The game itself takes about 25 hours to complete (at least the first time for me) . I do recommend 
 it to anyone, however after completion there isn't much else to do and doesn't hold up much value 
 when all said and done.
  
  **See Gamespot's review for more details** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioManiac34
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 26, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario was supposed to be the last Mario game on Gamecube. It was scheduled for release 
 in October, and I was going to get it for my birthday shortly thereafter. However, October came 
 and went, and SPM was nowhere to be found. As it turned out, the game was quietly moved to Wii. 
 I picked it up shortly after its April release and have to say that I thoroughly enjoyed it. While 
 it has some problems, Super Paper Mario is still a worthwhile platformer that Nintendo fans will 
 love.
  
  The story in SPM is different than those in most Mario games in that youre not saving Peach from 
 Bowser. Instead, you have a much bigger task: saving the world. The villain who is in charge of 
 trying to destroy it is Count Bleck. He is using an evil book called the Dark Prognosticus and 
 an object referred to as the Chaos Heart to suck the world into the Void. It is up to Mario and 
 three other heroes, all of whom you can play as, to stop Bleck. To do this, youll have to destroy 
 the Chaos Heart. The only way it can be destroyed is if you gather eight Pure Hearts. A wise old 
 man named Merlon, a book called the Light Prognosticus and various Pixls (fairy-like creatures) 
 are there to aid you in this endeavor.
  
  The story is one of Super Paper Marios strongest points. It is a nice change of pace from most 
 Mario platformers and is very intriguing. Also, theres a nice plot twist at the end, which is 
 always nice. In addition to a great story, the dialogue in SPM is very well localized. It is quite 
 funny and will have you at least chuckling once in awhile. Particular humorous parts include the 
 fight with the World 3 boss and dialogue between Count Bleck and his minions. I do have one problem 
 with the dialogue, though. Sometimes it just seems like theres way too much of it. There will 
 be a few times when you could careless about the story and just want to play the game. That said, 
 Super Paper Marios story and dialogue are still phenomenal and are some of the best in any Mario 
 game to date.
  
  At its core, Super Paper Mario is a traditional platforming game. Youll be running, jumping, and 
 stomping your way through eight worlds (each with four levels) , killing baddies as you go. All 
 of this feels like those old-school Mario games we know and love, which is great. However, there 
 are three things that set SPM apart from most other Mario platformers: RPG elements, Pixls, and, 
 of course, the ability to flip from 2-D to 3-D.
  
  There are three main RPG elements in Super Paper Mario. First, theres an overworld of sorts. This 
 overworld is the town of Flipside, and it is from here where you can unlock new worlds. To unlock 
 a new world, youll have to place a Pure Heart into a Heart Pillar. These Heart Pillars are scattered 
 all over Flipside, and youll definitely have trouble finding a few of them. Anyways, this whole 
 method of unlocking worlds is a nice change of pace from the usual level selection screen seen 
 in most Mario platformers.
  
  Secondly, you can shop for, manage, and use items. There are a wide variety of them, ranging from 
 health-restoring shroom shakes to enemy-destroying lightning bolts. The only problem I have with 
 the items is that its not really necessarily to use the offensive items that much. I wish the 
 developers had made these types of items more important to completing the game, as a lot of them 
 are activated by fun, non-intrusive motion controls.
  
  Finally, the last RPG element implemented into Super Paper Mario is that you can level up by way 
 of a point meter. The more points you get, the more youll level up. Though I personally didnt 
 mind, one thing RPG veterans might not like is that you cant choose in which stat you level up 
  the game chooses automatically.
  
  Though youll start the game as Mario, youll gain more playable characters as you progress, such 
 as Peach and Bowser. Each character has his or her unique ability. These are cool and all, but 
 none of them are as cool and fun as the power bestowed on you by Pixls. Pixls are fairy-like creatures 
 that, when equipped, give you a special ability. Youll start off the game with only one Pixl, 
 named Tippi, but you will acquire more as you go. Tippi is the one Pixl that is always equipped, 
 and, in addition to her, you can use only one other Pixl at a time. Each of these Pixls that you 
 find all have fun, unique abilities, and its always exciting to add a new one to your party.
 
  
  There is one more standout feature in SPM. It is the ability to switch from 2-D to 3-D. At anytime 
 while youre playing as Mario (this is his special ability) , you can press the A-button, and the 
 environment will change from a 2-D perspective to a 3-D one. Keep in mind that your not changing 
 environments. Youre just getting a new look at things. I applaud the developers for being able 
 to imagine what 2-D would look like in 3-D. That mustve been hard, though it definitely doesnt 
 show. The flipping feature is implemented very well, for the most part, and leads to some enjoyable 
 and clever puzzles. Also, some might think that it makes the game easier, since you can basically 
 just press the button and enemies become paper-thin. However, this is not the case, as there is 
 a timer that appears when you flip to 3-D. When this timer runs out, youll lose health, thus making 
 it unwise to stay in 3-D for too long of a time. Summing this up, Ill just say that the 2-D to 
 3-D element is what makes Super Paper Mario what it is. It is implemented flawlesslyexcept for 
 one thing.
  
  This brings me to the games biggest flaw: the eighth world. In this worlds four levels, the dimension-flipping 
 feature is hardly used at all. There are hardly any puzzles, and youd think there would be since 
 its the final world. Basically, all youre doing is running through a dark, flat environment killing 
 enemies. This just gets old really fast. The only reason why I bothered playing these levels was 
 because I wanted to beat the game. They werent hardly any fun, and they shouldve been the most 
 fun in the game. The final world in any game is supposed o be the biggest, the baddest, and the 
 best. However, Super Paper Marios final world does not fit that description, and it is a worse 
 game because of it. The visuals in Super Paper Mario have some good and bad aspects. To start with 
 the good side of things, the graphic style has a unique look to it. When in 2-D, everything looks 
 like it is made out of paper, thus providing the name of the game, Super Paper Mario. These paper 
 graphics are a nice simplistic change of pace from the graphics in most games today. In addition 
 to that, the graphics are also very colorful and cheerful looking. Another positive is that SPM 
 has some of the most original character designs in any game to date. The level designs are also 
 very good, as each different world has a unique look to it. One of the most unique worlds is one 
 that looks like the pattern designer from Animal Crossing. The screen is divided into a bunch of 
 little squares, giving the world an almost mosaic look.
  
  While the graphics in Super Paper Mario are very original and unique, there are a few problems. 
 One problem is the eighth world. All of the levels in this world all look the same. They all have 
 the same dark background. There is no variety whatsoever. This makes the levels less fun to play. 
 In addition to that, SPM has some technical problems. For starters, the 3-D graphics arent that 
 great. There are quite a few jagged lines, and the graphics just dont look very polished. Jaggies 
 also come into play in 2-D. There is a thin black line around characters and objects that is supposed 
 too be smooth. However, it is not at all and is very jagged. Still, the positives out way the negatives, 
 and Super Paper Mario delivers a worthy visual experience.
  
  The audio is like the graphics. There is some good and some bad. The music is all very while composed 
  at least the music I remember. The music is just not very noticeable, and there will only be 
 a few songs hat stick in your head. One of these songs is the tune that plays at the title screen. 
 The one word that describes it is wacky (which really describes the whole game!) . There are a 
 lot of different musical things going on in it. Another song youll remember is the one that plays 
 in Flipside. It is very catchy and enjoyable. As far as sound effects go, nothing really stood 
 out to me. All the sounds are the stuff you would expect from a Mario game, which I guess isnt 
 good or bad.
  
  One thing I wish Intelligent Systems wouldve done for SPM is voice acting. There are a few snippets 
 here and there, but nothing substantial, and I wouldve really liked to see how full voice acting 
 would be in a Mario game. I think Super Paper Mario is a perfect fit for it, too. All of the characters 
 have very distinct personalities that I think voice acting wouldve accented that really well. 
 Oh well, I guess. We will probably never see voice acting in a Mario game. Why not, Nintendo, why 
 not?
  
  Super Paper Mario has quite a bit of value to it, though its nothing superb or anything. The main 
 game itself is a respectable 20 hours. In addition to that, theres probably around 5-10 hours 
 of side quests. These range from finding collectable cards to searching for treasure. Probably 
 the most substantial side quests are the two Pits of 100 Trials. These are 100 level dungeons that 
 you have to go through without dying once. Youll most likely have to spend some time leveling 
 up, which is a side quest in and of itself, if you want to complete these. However, despite all 
 of these side quests, youll probably only be interested in a few. The ones I delved into were 
 playing minigames in an underground arcade, and acquiring extra Pixls. Despite that, SPMs main 
 game is long enough that the value really shouldnt be a concern if youre thinking about purchasing 
 it. Super Paper Mario is one of the best Wii games so far. Its story is very well done, and the 
 dialogue is hilariously localized. The game feels like an old-school Mario game, especially that 
 first time you jump on a little Goombas head. There are some fun, new twists such as RPG elements 
 and the ability to flip from 2-D to 3-D. SPM has some problems, though, that keep it from reaching 
 the status of best Mario game of all time. The visuals, while very colorful and unique, have 
 some problems with jaggies. Also, the music needs to be more noticeable, though it is well composed. 
 The games biggest problem, however, is a dull and boring eighth world. Despite that, Super Paper 
 Mario is still a good game that will last you a while, too. It might not be perfect, but it is 
 a great start for the Mario series on Wii and is a good foundation for whats to come. Galaxy anyone? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MARIODXXX
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  Mario has returned for the Wii!
  And what a comeback! This adventure is amazing in every aspect of the game! The gameplay combines 
 between the 2 former games of Paper Mario (Paper Mario 64 and Paper Mario the Thousand Year Door) 
 and the old 1983 Super Mario game. Did you ever imagine playing the Old School? Super Mario with 
 HP? Well, stop imagining! Because its here!
  This game brings us Old-School and New-School like I have never seen before! There isn't much motion 
 sensing action in the game so if you are looking for lots of motion sensing action you might get 
 disappointed though several games and items require you to use motion sensing action.
  About the Storyline: A Great and funny storyline with old and new Characters from the Super Mario 
 Universe! I laughed from the jokes that were in the game.
  The Graphics of the game are really superb giving the game old-School theme along with blasting 
 3D graphics!
  The Sound of the game is Amazing as well. Every Music or sound effect in the game fits exactly 
 to the part of the game they are played at, and that really gets you right into the game! Bottom 
 Line: I think it's a Must-Have game for your Wii, Especially those seeking good Single Player games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 25, 2007 10:50 pm PT
Review:  although the camera is an unnapealing point to the game itself, the element of flipping between 
 dimensions is perhaps the most creative factor for mario yet. In this game, mario, peach, luigi 
 and bowser (the 4 legendary heroes) set off with their trusty pixelized creatures to defeat the 
 evil count. Swim, smash, and break your way into new levels! Although the game doesnt take much 
 advantage of the wiimote, its wacky designs and strange bosses earns the game all the credit it 
 gets. Although other gamers have called this game the best game yet, i think they are a bit exaggerating... 
 Not that i dislike this game, but in my opinion it just not the best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicX18
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 24, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  When i got this game and popped it in my wii and started it, my mouth dropped and i was amazed 
 on how cool it is to flip to 3-D and i must say if you are looking to buy or rent a game, then 
 you must rent or buy this game, you won't be disappointed! EVERYTHING ABOUT THIS GAME IS AWESOME! 
 but right now i am at 8-3 almost done with the game and after i beat this game i will beat every 
 game i have, but Red Steel, i am about half way done! :) :P :D and when the next Super Paper Mario 
 comes out, i will get it cause i bet you anything it will ROCK! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmonkey012
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Paper Mario is one of the most original Mario games to date. You can play in 2D or 3D to unlock 
 a whole new set of possibilities. The story line takes place when a dark prophecy is unleashed 
 when princess peach and Bowser are forced to get married. The dark prophecy states that when a 
 good princess and dark king are married all dimensions will be destroyed. The game takes place 
 in flip-side, a dimension between 2D and 3D. You can play as Mario, Peach, and even Bowser to try 
 to stop the prophecy from having.
  
  THE GOOD: Awesome game-play, great graphics, funny text, flip from 2D to 3D to unlock even more 
 secrets, play as Mario Peach or Bowser to unlock even more secrets, tons of unlockables and stuff 
 to buy, a desent amount of re-playability.
  
  THE BAD: Long cut scenes, confusing story line.
  
  OVERALL: A great and fun game that is a 
 must buy for any Mario fan or RPG fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jemberley1000
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 22, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  OMG! i loved this game. It brings an oldstyle mario feel but with the new twist of an rpg. I thought 
 the classic jumping on heads was amazing and also the rpg system was done out well. I also loved 
 the 3D mode, gave a great puzzle feel to the game. It wasnt all that hard of a game but i thought 
 that still it was a good game and one worth having in your collection. This is one for the history 
 books, even more so if your a mario fan and have stuck with him from the begging. Its a great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrimusStream
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  I've played both Paper Mario for the N64 and Paper Mario: The Thousand Year Door for the gamecube 
 and I played this one. This was the best Paper Mario game that was ever made. The storyline was 
 great, the gameplay, graphics, everything. I like the part where I get to flip the area from 2D 
 to 3D all the time. Playing as Luigi, Bowser, and Peach were really fun to play as them in that 
 game. Some of the puzzles were hard and I had to use a lot of logical thinking on some of the level 
 and that's okay too. This game was very challenging and I really liked it. This was the best Wii 
 game that I ever played in my entire life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhantomPhoot
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 22, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  After playing my way through this marvelou little game, I suddnly realized something: I had no 
 desire to see the ending, although I was playig so much that it mayhave seemed that way. I've played 
 the oter paper mrio games, and let say, this one is not too impressive.
  
  Gone are the RPG elements. Replacing them are the crude, simple platforming and side-scrolling 
 fond in the primitive Mario series. Gone is the customization and the creative badge system, and 
 in it's place are simply executed button presses and moves assigned to each character. Gone are 
 the colorful characters which had their own effect on the dialogue only to be replaced by Pixls 
 with brief dialogue and no input on the story, not to mention an emotionally distressed butterfly.
 
  
  The humor that sweetly dressed the previous installment is, for some reason, missing. This game 
 tries very hard to be hilarious, but in the end it becomes annoying and crude (  
 ... nuff said) . I really did not find as much o any connection with ay of the main villains or heroes 
 in this story, all except for Bowser, which still caught my attention as being the funniest of 
 all the characters.
  
  I really do miss the stage filled with little paper characters that filled and cheered me on as 
 I fought my foes. Instead, I feel bored simply burning my foes with Bowser's flame or leaping on 
 them with Mario. The puzzling is as simple as it could be, with obvious clues and hints and unneccessarly 
 long jogs or block hits. I feel like I'm playing a classic Mario game, which is not why I play 
 Paper Mario.
  
  Overall, this game has some good points. The platforming and classic Mario gameplay might please 
 some, but it's too simple and repetetive. he humor is funny at times, but when it tries to be funny, 
 it might lag on you. This game has i's good points, but overall it's a repetetive and overrated 
 addition to the Wii library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K1nG_Gr4H4m
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 21, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Couldn't have been cheesier than this. The story is predictable the moment you put the DVD in. 
 So cheesy, it made me gag. Most of the dialogs attempt at humor fails and can be plainly annoying. 
 Every quest is easy and you don't need to search. They just tell you what to do. Besides one or 
 two, the pixes aren't much used besides one place. Definitely not as good or as funny as the previous 
 paper mario or rpg series. That includes the GBA and GC. I had a hard time finishing this. If it 
 wasn't a Mario game, I probably wouldn't have wasted more than 5 hours on it. If you're 12 years 
 old, you might enjoy it tho. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarsOfWarr
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 19, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Most people are going to tell you that this game isn't as good as the original paper Mario but 
 let me get straight down to the point: this game brings the series to a whole new level. I always 
 have enjoyed Paper Mario but 3-D mode, the Pixl's, the comedy, and the 4 main characters help to 
 create the best Wii game available yet. The story lasts about 18 hours, however, some of the puzzles 
 can be solved in more or less time, there are a few side missions, and I did bypass some enemies 
 when I was in danger of health. The only thing this game lacks is replayability. After the first 
 play through, you feel like there is nothing new to see and I haven't popped it in since finding 
 the last bonus Pixl.
  
  The graphics are noticeably aliased, and actually seem to be a step down in sharpness from The 
 Thousand Year Door. The new fighting system is definitely time saving, however, it lifts this game 
 fromk it's RPG roots just a little bit. Also, like every other Paper Mario game, there s almost 
 no voice acting and pretty much all the sound you hear comes from the sounds of the world around 
 you.
  
  Overall, this game is a phoenomnal fun, and funny play the first time through that just kind of 
 lacks the replay of classic Mario 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timothyt
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 19, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  I know everyone's going nuts for this but it bored me to death. I played it about an hour and was 
 almost falling asleep - thank God for GameFly I'm glad it was just a rental and I didn't waste 
 $50 on this. The graphics were ok although 480p still looks like crap on my big screen. C'mon Nintendo 
 you've stated that 720p is totally possible with the Wii let's have some 720p games - especially 
 on a 2D game like this where the slow processor in the Wii can't really be an excuse. It just didn't 
 do it for me. Mario Galaxy looks promising so I guess I'll just wait and give that a try when it 
 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marine_man87
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  with the addition of the 3-D world in the game it adds a completely new style to Mario its self. 
 with the learning curve relatively low, it allows for the most inexperienced console gamer to love 
 the game, but its not too low so the 'hardcore' gamer will not get bored. this is one where the 
 parents can play and relive the good-ol'-days of the 2D, and allow them to see the future of gaming 
 with a 3D look as well. the puzzles are not too difficult, but you will have to remember what characters 
 and pixies you have, and their abilities. the clues for the puzzles are all around the area, so 
 all you have to do is look. this is great for several reasons it prevents frustration from not 
 being able to figure out the puzzle and throwing the remote across the room, and you kinda feel 
 smart once you figure it out. overall, this game is easy, but not too easy, looks great, and can 
 appeal to all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MightyCowM
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 18, 2007 12:42 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is much closer to a standard platformer version of Mario than the last Paper 
 Mario incarnation. If you were looking for more of the turn-based combat of the last game, you're 
 out of luck. It's also much easier to play than the older side scrolling Mario games, making it 
 much more a game of entertainment than of challenge.
  
  I've enjoyed playing it quite a bit so far, but the game overall is fairly easy with simple puzzles, 
 easy to find hidden items, and powerful characters facing weak enemies. The cut scenes can be a 
 little long, although the enemies are creative, and their banter can be pretty entertaining.
  
  My main gripe is that for some crazy reason, there are several points in the game with tedious, 
 boring tasks that serve no purpose at all. At one point, your characters are trapped in a sweat 
 shop, and you have to perform repetitive tasks to earn your way out. At another point, you're faced 
 with a secret code, and the towns person who knows the code requires you to spell out please over 
 and over by pointing at the letters with your remote. Once was fine, but five times in a row is 
 just stupid programming. I have no idea why developers thought tedium was fun, or why a play testing 
 group didn't tell them to dump the boring time-wasters. Fortunately, I've only run into a few examples 
 of this, so it's possible to overlook in the grand scheme of things. Still, designers should know 
 better, and I sincerely hope no other games decide to pick up on this highly lame idea.
  
  Faults aside, Super Paper Mario is a fun game. It's fun playing with the different characters you 
 control to solve various tasks. It's rewarding to solve the various puzzles and find the secret 
 areas and hidden treasures. It can be a little frustrating trying to find your way around your 
 home city, but there are cool places to explore, so I haven't gotten completely frustrated with 
 it yet.
  
  The game could use a few more save points, but as long as you're willing to play for at least 30-45 
 minutes between saves, and can stomach a few 5 minute time-wasters, it's an enjoyable Mario experience. 
 Even if it's not much of a role playing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aocyepg
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 16, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  I'm not kidding when I say this game is definitively worth playing... Aw so cute! brightly and colorful 
 what else should I ask for? Yeah, you should say what about the graphics power? Does this game 
 run at full 1000 FPS (fools per second:) ) without noticing glitches? And what about the sound? 
 music? and history? We all want complex, insane and hard to solve puzzles if not, thats not an 
 RPG! To the sadness of many people, the answer is go away and seek another game, Mario isnt for 
 youFor the all rest heres what you have been waiting for... at least until Mario Galaxy.
  
  For me this game is superb, not so difficult but not so easy yet engaging and frustrating sometimes. 
 If you havent played Mario Paper before this is a good start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: driversold
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 16, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  A quick and simple Mario game with a twist... and one major drawback; Dialog. You'll read several 
 reviews claiming this story will draw you, but in fact, it gets old. If it wasn't for all the text 
 reading, the game would probably last 1/2 as long. This also hurts the replay value. Why can't 
 we skip the text with one simple button. Actually, there isn't all that much to explore once you 
 do complete it, but at least they give you the option of choosing what level you want to tackle. 
 With the bad out of the way, we are left with the good. It's a great 2-D game with a nice 3-D twist 
 to it. When you get stuck on a level, flip to 3-D and hopefully you can find the answer. Some people 
 may also have a quirk about the graphics, but personally I enjoy the cartoony look. It's fun, minus 
 the dialog, the first time through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Southpole92
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 16, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  I Played it for an hour and it reminded my of any role-playing game but this is a role playing 
 game. I also reminded me of a gameboy game with all the text you had to read. it was somewhat fun 
 to play but after a while it just got boring. It dose make good use of the wii mote but im into 
 the more interactive games maybe galaxy will be better. This reminds me Why the only Role-playing 
 game i like is kingdom hearts. Something told me to buy Warioware but i didnt instead i rented 
 paper mario. I played paper mario 2 and didnt like it, but i thought that this one would be different 
 because it looked more adventurous, but it was kind of similar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ch-ch-chaoguy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 16, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Aulthough i'm quick to buy anything with the name paper or mario in it I was a bit wary about this 
 title, but I decided to buy it anyway. WHen I first started playing this game It was amazingly 
 fun but as the hours passed I was going through level after level like nothing! It took me about 
 10-12 hours total for me to finis story mode and another 3 or 4 to finish the many side quests, 
 I was quite surprised at how little time it took me. But dont take me wrong even though it was 
 short I had an amazing time playing this game; let me break it down for you.
  
  Gameplay: where do I start... it was wonderful, the controls were well thought out and simple enough 
 for anyone to pick up and play. Graphics: Perfect, the graphics in each level represent what they 
 should, for example in level 3: the entire 4 perts of that level are entirely made up of pixels 
 in in different shades and hues it all just looks wonderful.
  
  Sound: sadly not as memorable as previous titles but still quite catchy and does not loop as much 
 as you would think the tracks are all quite veried, as well as the sound effect.
  
  Value: all I can say here is totally worth it!
  
  Overall it think for the several that are 
 are used to how paper mario works this game is short but it still delivers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omali
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 16, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  Nintendo 64 owners of the past will be familiar with Paper Mario, a game that hit store shelves 
 to great response and sales. Well hold onto your hats, because this isn't your mother's Paper Mario.
 
  
  The game plays like an old school side scrolling Mario game, but with RPG elements added in (special 
 attacks, stats) .
  
  The first thing you'll notice is the graphics. The graphics in SPM are very simplistic in design, 
 yet very smooth, and manages to pull off the feel that the characters are indeed made out of paper. 
 The game also answers the question that we've been wondering since the first side scroller came 
 out. If the game's in 2D, what do the characters see? Well this is answered by flipping into 3D 
 mode as Mario, which can be used to reveal new areas, secret blocks, and even hidden enemies. The 
 game's name is Super Paper Mario, but Mario's hardly the only super hero in this adventure. He'll 
 be joined by Peach, Bowser, and eventually Luigi. Mario finds himself partnered with strange beings 
 called Pixls. Mario starts off with his companion, Tippi, a rainbow colored butterfly who will 
 accompany him on most of his quest. Along the way, he'll find new pixls which give him a diverse 
 array of powers, such as becoming paper thin to avoid attacks, or shrinking to a tiny size. Peach 
 has the ability, as seen in previous games, to use her umbrella to let her glide, as well as using 
 it to fend off any attacks. Bowser has the ability to shoot flame breath, a very useful tactic 
 when underwater.
  
  The enemies are, of course, a diverse array that are too numerous to mention specifically. The 
 main baddie is a magician by the name of Count Bleck, sporting his stereotypical monocle, top hat, 
 cloak and staff. Bleck's on a mission to destroy all the worlds using the chaos heart. It's up 
 to Mario and his team to collect the pure hearts and stop him. On his way, Mario and his team will 
 meet and fight Bleck's minions, including the major minions (oxymoron?) . His assistant, who acts 
 more like a secretary, is constantly referring to schedules and plans, and takes Bleck's operation 
 as more of a business than it needs to be. Then there's the Scottish tank stereotype, O'Chunks. 
 O'Chunks is always ready to chunk em up , and while he isn't too bright, his brawn more than makes 
 up for a lack of brain cells. There's Dimentio, a character who can, if you didn't pull it out 
 of the name, manipulate the dimensions to its' bidding (I couldn't tell if Dimentio was male or 
 female, as it dons a jester costume the whole time) . Dimentio will be a regular nuisance to the 
 heroes. Mimi is the shapeshifter, and uses her power to confuse the heroes during their quest. 
 Otherwise, she's a pretty immature little girl, and is prone to losing her cool very quickly. Last 
 but not least is the elusive Mr. L, a character who will become well known to Mario fans. Mr. L 
 seems to have quite a grudge against Mario, although it's not apparent why. His general plan of 
 attack is to build a giant machine of death to crush his enemies with.
  
  The sound? The sound in SPM is phenomenal. Granted, it's not high definition, and there are a couple 
 NES sounds recycled. The music always matches the setting and mood, and is epic in itself. Nintendo 
 went as far as remixing the sound played when you get a star (this time it makes you grow into 
 a huge NES style version of whichever character touched the star) . Nothing to complain about with 
 the sound.
  
  The controls are smooth and fluid, although there are some times in the later levels where the 
 numerous holes in the ground will get your blood boiling (Brings back that thing we all hate: Getting 
 hit by an enemy, then thrown back right into a hole in the ground) . Luckily, falling into a hole 
 doesn't mean instant game over, just pulling off a small bit of health and sticking you back on 
 the platform where you fell off of.
  
  I love Nintendo's comedy style, and this game does not disappoint. There's the old jokes on koopas 
 and Goombas having more personality than we give them credit for. There's Nintendo's now regular 
 inclusion of the stereotypical geek, as portrayed by a giant lizard with a blog and hundreds of 
 hello-kitty style robots that do his bidding (mainly recording tv shows, polishing his action figures, 
 and telling him when new DVD box sets are released) . The kind of comedy that you'll read and chuckle, 
 thinking that's so stupid or I can't believe he just said that .
  
  The game does get overwhelming, especially if you're one of the people who tries to look for every 
 hidden nook and cranny in the game. Especially when you get late in the game, and you can't handle 
 using every tool in every location to try and find every little hidden button.
  
  The value lost major points because the game is short, and doesn't have any replay value in it. 
 Overall, I give the game an 8.8 out of 10, and give it a Must buy rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tylendal
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 15, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is a game that does something that no game has ever done before. Some minor annoyances 
 are offset by serius fun. To start with, the gameplay. At first glance, Super Paper Mario looks 
 just like any other Mario platformer, and plays like one too. However, soon you get the the ability 
 to flip from the second to the third dimension, allowing you to completely bypass most enemies 
 and obstacles. This power is offset by the fact that you have limited time in the third dimension, 
 balancing the abilities nicely. Almost immediately you find an obstacle that cannot be passed, 
 giving you an example of the power of flipping. You will gain up to three different characters, 
 giving you the advantages of horizontal jumping, vertical jumping, and double attack power. The 
 attacks in this game are much more lethal than previous Mario games, which is offset by the fact 
 that you can take a lot of damage before going down. The paper like graphics of this game are taken 
 advantage of more than ever before. Some enemies will dissipear entirely whe turned sideways, and 
 you can even turn sideways to get through narrow gaps. One of this game's best aspects is the storyline. 
 While most Mario games have a fairly generic storyline, Super Paper Mario features an incredibly 
 dark storyline, involving self sacrifice, revealing drama, and a traiterous twist. Some of the 
 complaints of this game, are a lack of replayability, rather generic sound effects, and some segments 
 that consume time, without really moving the story forward. Also, you'll find yourself using mainly 
 Mario, or possibly the power character, while only switching to the others for a few seconds, because 
 you must use the flip ability often, whereas the others only come in handy occasionally. This is 
 another problem. While most abilities, including the flip, are wildly useful at first, they begin 
 to fall out of use, giving the impression that the flipping ability wasn't taken as far as it could. 
 Finally, this is an excellent game, that features never before seen concepts, and a storyline the 
 likes of which the Mario series has never seen. Despite it's drawbacks, this is a story who's challenge 
 and storyline will draw you in, and not let go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valdarez
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 15, 2007 1:04 am PT
Review:  As a kid I played Donkey Kong at the arcade and on the Atari 2600. That was my first brush with 
 Nintendo. Several years later, I found myself playing a little game called Super Mario Brothers, 
 once again at the arcade. I used to steal quarters from my little sisters piggy bank to go play 
 it at the local arcade (sorry sis!) . Thankfully that didnt lead to a life of crime, but it did 
 lead to a life of playing video games. Now, nearly 25 years later, I purchased that latest Mario 
 installment, this time for the Wii titled Super Paper Mario. The original Super Mario Brothers 
 is considered a side scrolling classic. To many its quintessential side scroller that sets the 
 standard for all other games of its kind. Super Paper Mario borrows heavily from the game play 
 of the original Super Mario Brothers and adds a completely unique 2D / 3D switching game play as 
 well as many game play elements found in traditional RPG games such as character leveling, special 
 abilities, big boss fights, and a plot thick story. The graphics in the game arent exactly ground 
 breaking, however they are effective. Everything in the game is meant to look like paper. To further 
 the paper effect, nearly everything has big black lines to separate the various colors. While not 
 exactly graphically enhanced, it is fitting for the game. The use of the black dark lines is well 
 used in the story telling and when segmenting from one level to another. In many instances, the 
 lines are drawn one by one, much like an old school etch-a-sketch, but at an extremely rapid pace. 
 Its a nice effect that fits the paper world.
  
  The sound in the game isnt that great. Theres nothing that you would want to listen to when you 
 arent playing the game, and theres pretty much no Voice Over work in the game what-so-ever. With 
 that said, the sounds are fitting and dont necessarily detract from the game. Then again, they 
 dont add a whole lot either. Whats hard to understand is the complete lack of Voice Over work. 
 Even the main character Mario hardly utters a word. Thats simply unacceptable for this generation 
 of games on the Wii. The game play is what makes this game. Its the classic side scrolling fun 
 that you would expect from a Super Mario Brothers game. Mario hops, jumps, uses his special abilities 
 to kill the various monsters throughout the game. There are pixels that grant Mario the ability 
 to perform specials such as picking up a creature or item and throwing it, dropping a bomb, or 
 shrinking to a hilariously small size. In addition, Mario quickly learns how to switch from 2D 
 to 3D mode, which is pivotal to finding hidden objects and solving many of the games puzzles. In 
 addition to Mario, a player may play as the Princess, Bowser, or Luigi. Each character has a special 
 feature. The Princess can glide with her Umbrella, Bowser can breathe fire, and Luigi can jump 
 extremely high. All in all the game play is fun and would be great even as a stand alone 2D side 
 scroller.
  
  The story is well, its long. Its well written, there are many metaphors, innuendos, and word 
 play. Unfortunately, the dialog is written at what appears to be a 3rd grade level. After playing 
 the game through the 2nd Chapter, I quickly found myself simply pressing the buttons trying to 
 get through the dialog so I could actually play the game again. Sadly, instead of adding to the 
 game, the story simply made the game longer than it should have been and kept me from being able 
 to enjoy what made the game great, which was the game play.
  
  All in all Super Paper Mario was a good game, but not great. There were a many things done right, 
 but there were a lot of misses as well. Its definitely worth a rent, but if your not floating 
 in cash, you should probably avoid buying the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZGDK
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 13, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  I never played the first two Paper Mario games; you see I never really was into RPGs that much 
 and I never really felt like it was anything that I wanted to play. That all changed when I heard 
 that Super Paper Mario was being released! Being a platformer fanatic I rushed to Wal-Mart, picked 
 up a Wii and bought this wonderful game! Or is it wonderful?
  
  STORY-7/10
  
  The story in the game is very engaging and all the characters are played out very nicely. The one 
 disappointing thing is that the story is conveyed in TEXT, lots and lots of mountains of text. 
 You'll find yourself skipping through the text just to get to the game; which is a shame since 
 the writing; especially the humor is top-notch and will have you laughing out loud! The story basically 
 sends you to the town of Flipside where you are charged with finding the mystical Pure Hearts, 
 wait there are 8 Pure Hearts? I would've never guessed! In the end the story is top-notch with 
 plenty of crazy plot twists and things to do.
  
  GAMEPLAY-9/10
  
  The game play is simply amazing. Unlike most plat former-RPG hybrids platforming is the main focus 
 here with RPG elements sprinkled about. Like the original SMB there are 8 worlds with 4 levels 
 in each. Each level offers something different and unique, such as heading into outer space to 
 square off against a giant metal Luigi head, or infiltrating a nerd fortress. It's these kinds 
 of moments that set the game apart from most other plat formers. Later in the game things start 
 to get a little tedious, things start to really drag out and start to get really boring. For example 
 level 7-4: looking at my strategy guide and seeing five full pages of writing daunted me. I felt 
 like just shutting the Wii off and dare I say it go outside! On the flipside (no pun intended) 
 the levels are long and action packed, and will keep you wanting to play. I was a little under 
 whelmed by the easy boss fights, even the final took only two minutes and I barley got scratched. 
 Overall the gameplay is so much fun, even after beating the game theres still so much to do and 
 youll feel like you just got the game four weeks after you got it!
  
  The main aspect of the game is flipping from 2-D to 3-D, while this is fun it's not really played 
 out a whole lot with most puzzles revolving around flipping. Also for every second you're in 3-D 
 you loose a Flip Point. When you loose all of them you loose one Heart Point. What seems an attempt 
 to make the game more challenging; it just winds up stressful and is quite unnecessary.
  
  You'll also have a host of 4 playable characters: Mario, Peach, Bowser, and Luigi. Unlike other 
 Mario games the characters are not simply clones of one another. They have their own strengths 
 and weaknesses and a host of special abilities that you must make use of over the game. You'll 
 also have Pixels, essentially little fairies that give you special abilities also. Unfortunately, 
 later in the game when you have 9-10 Pixels you won't really use your new ones for but one or two 
 puzzles.
  
  GRAPHICS AND SOUND-8/10
  
  The graphics are top-notch and colorful. Unlike other games, rather than using the basic grass, 
 desert, water, jungle, ice, mountains, sky, lava environments, Super Paper Mario instead sends 
 you to crazy dimensions. Some examples are a Japanese style kingdom where you'll participate in 
 a fearsome fighting tournament, outer space where you'll float around blasting crap just like in 
 Malaga, a stone-age world that's under attack by evil flowers, and Mario's version of heaven and 
 hell. The colorful graphics are an eye pleaser and offer up plenty of treats for the eye. However 
 as eye appealing as the 2-D graphics may be, 3-D takes a beating from a camera angle that's ALWAYS 
 behind you. This is fine however since you won't be in 3-D all that much. Great graphics, Grrrreeeaaatttt 
 graphics.
  
  The music is also really catchy with plenty of classic sound effects. It really goes along with 
 the envirment and you'll sometimes wish there was a soundtrack to go with the game. Unfortunately 
 unlike most other Mario games there are only a few songs that get stuck in your head like glue. 
 Yep. Like glue.
  
  CONTROLS-9/10
  
  The controls work very well with the Wiimote, and involve some minor motion sensitive activates. 
 Holding the Wiimote like an NES controller you automatically become accustomed to the controls 
 without really having to read the instructions. The lack of an analog stick for 3-D may seem disappointing, 
 but like with the graphics you're mostly in 2-D, so it works, plus you'll get used to it. Just 
 think of it as SM64DS. The Wiimote works well, and it's only used to pull off stylish attacks, 
 which is preformed by shaking the remote after crushing some baddies. Great controls, motion sensitive 
 isn't overused.
  
  REPLAY VALUE-9/10
  
  Even once you beat the game there are plenty of side-quests to do. Such as collecting all 256 Trading 
 Cards to the Pit of 100 Trials and much more you'll be playing even after you beat ****** (Can't 
 spoil things can I?) . OVERALL
  
  Super Paper Mario is a great game and tops Twilight Princess all the way, sorry Zelda but Mario 
 is teh asomnessss!!!! Wait, I never finished TP, scratch that.
  
  PROS
  
  -Great game play (durh!)
  -Plenty of characters and special abilities
  -Graphics are a treat 
 for the eye
  -Crazy levels
  -Tight control 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bria5544
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 13, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  The story and humor in the latest Mario leave one chuckling and smiling throughout. Some of the 
 characters in the main town can be predictable, but the dialog is intertwined with just enough 
 quirky humor to keep it interesting. I was sadly disappointed with the length of the game in general, 
 although you can go back and continue after beating the story. I would recommend it to anyone who 
 enjoys an engaging story with fun and likable characters, although if you're looking for a 40+ 
 hour traditional RPG, look somewhere else. Even taking my time and looking for secret things, I 
 still finished in a few minutes over 20 hours, I'm sure if someone were trying for a speed record, 
 it could probably be done in around 12 hours or less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: je_taime_RB_27
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 12, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario
  I did'nt really like the first one but this one is really cool.
  
  The story is that Peach has been kidnaped by somebody... but who... is it Bowser? No it's not! For 
 the first time... I think it's not because of Bowser.
  The bad guy in this one is Count Bleck, a guy that wants to destroy all worlds so he can't do his 
 own. After everybody ( Peach, Bowser, Luigi and all the koopas) has been in a black hole caused 
 by Bleck, Mario the only guy remaining he meets Tippi, an Pixl. You'll have the help of Merlon, 
 of other magicians and from a bunch of other Pixl. To be continued...
  
  I really liked the gameplay because you can change from 2-D to 3-D.
  
  I'm just at the second 
 chapter ( There is 8 Chapters) but the game is really good and the boss are kinda easy but sometimes 
 the clues to make apear a door, it's kinda difficult.
  
  The persons that liked the first one will love this one ( I think) . This is if you liked the old 
 mario ( gameboy or old nintendo) and like to be flip in 3-D.
  
  Thanks for read! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dna_remix_guy
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 10, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 7
  Quick: Not enough action/ slow, mostly easy puzzle solving. Still fun to play.
  If you ever have 
 played another paper Mario (I played the paper Mario for N64) , throw that all out the window. They 
 just missed totally revamping the system from Paper Mario for N64. This time around there is very 
 little RPG elements, one of my downfalls for this game. To me they should have stuck to the turn-based 
 RPGin that was in the N64 predecessor. Instead there is more of a focus on platforming, yet the 
 platforming is slow. The puzzles in this game are fairly easy, and at sometimes are very annoying 
 to figure out.
  Through the use of switching between 2D and 3D, Pixls and different characters, different playstyles 
 (space shooter, underwater) , and boss battles, the gameplay is good, but not great.
  To me, if there was either faster gameplay or the original RPG battle system, it would have greatly 
 improved the gameplay.
  
  Graphics:
  Nice style, good transitions. Great for the style of the game. But looks last gen, When in 3D mode 
 the game looks too empty.
  
  Sound:
  Simple soundtrack, Simple sound effects. These are satisfying.
  Lots of reading without any voiceovers 
 is annoying.
  
  Value:
  I think this game is worth it, there are a ton of minigames, and the game is good. Lack of ability 
 to replay it drags down its value.
  
  Tilt:
  Under all my criticism, I really like this game, but it is definitely not a buy for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerking310
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 10, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is a great game for both girls and boys. It's gameplay is amazing. The graphics 
 are great but not amazing. The game has a great story line and prefect amount of bosses and puzzles. If 
 your wondering about the items they is three types. One is healing which of course heal you. The 
 second one is attack which require you to shake the Wii remote and if done correctly they will 
 help you in battle. The last type is sorta like items that give you rewards such as the happy flower 
 which make coins fall slowly to the ground. They is also things called pixies which help advance 
 though the game such as Boomer who blows up brick walls but also hurts enemies when he explodes. Another 
 great thing is you get to change who play as when you want so you can complete challenges though 
 out the game but you can only play as Mario, Peach, Bowser, and Luigi who each have a different special 
 ability. Super Paper Mario is all these things and more so if you have spare cash go buy these game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbmikkim
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 9, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  Ok, this game is a must buy for wii because of how the remote connects with the wii
  
  This time your out to help to save the world from an evil force called Count Bleck by collecting 
 Crystal Hearts i believe and putting them in heart pillars.
  In this game thiers lots of great laughs but pretty simple bosses. Yes this game by all means is 
 too short because of how easy it is. But, by all means this game has great use of other characters 
 such as Bowser and Peach.
  Also Pixels will help you throughout this old-school rockin' game.
  
  If you have a Wii ... 
 You must have this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steel_Rain777
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 7, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the Paper Mario series since it first hit on the Nintendo 64. I loved the humor 
 that each character brought and the turn-based fighting system was also another strong point of 
 the game (IMO) . Hence a sequel came out for the GC, Thousand-year door, improved on the original 
 greatly with more environmental interaction and tweaks in the battle system, altogether maintaining 
 a lengthy adventure and great storyline.
  
  So when I hear a follow-up was gonna be made for the Wii i was pretty ecstatic. But the overall 
 package was not what i was expecting it to be. some of the nice new additions work pretty well. 
 Swapping into 3-d is nice, adding a whole new gameplay mechanic, but feels tacked on at times, 
 because you'll wind up switch back and forth countless times in one sitting. The thing that got 
 me the most was the fact that they totally removed the combat system of the past games, one of 
 it's strongest selling points, which aggravated me to no end. Combat deals with mostly just stomping 
 on your enemies, like the classic Mario series. Don't get me wrong I love old-school Mario games, 
 but the paper Mario series was a spin-off RPG of the classic hero, not the traditional sense. Also 
 the story this time around is not as properly put together as the others, and much of the game 
 is spent reading boxes of text. It's called voice-overs nintendo, this isn't 1996. Another thing 
 that is sorely lacking from all these columns of words you'll be reading, is the humor. One of 
 the things that made the Paper Mario series stand out as a goofy, but deep adventure was it's humor 
 and this game is lacking thereof. Graphics are all right I guess, but when will Wii games stop 
 looking like mid-gen GC titles and really push the hardware for it can really do. I'm in no way 
 trying to bash Nintendo or it's console. I love my Wii. I would only recommend this title to those 
 who have never played any of the previous Paper Mario games. The game can take about 20 hours or 
 so to complete, but without getting side-tracked. But to fans of the series i would recommend a 
 rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sealightbreeze
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 7, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  I was actually really, really disappointed with this game. The elements from the other Paper Mario 
 games, were totally gone. Instead of having a turn-based system with party members like in the 
 other games, this turn-based system was different.
  
  All the characters were there, but it seemed like something was missing from the game. I did not 
 like how they implemented the cooking this time in the game. Instead of creating your own foods, 
 and trying out new combos, there was a machine that already had different recipes added into it. 
 It took away the fun of the cooking this time in the game.
  
  The boss at the end of the game, Count Bleck, was way too easy to defeat. Actually, the game in 
 general was really easy. It is a good game, but I would not want to buy it again. It is one of 
 those games: Once you beat it, you do not want to play it again. At least, not for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gocazak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2007 1:02 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: ok so u like jump on a goomba i think n it does dmg.. its so cool n u lvl way faster 
 than in the other games cuz its not turn based lol
  ya and u do lots more lvling than last game
  and bosses r easy so nice for newbs
  ok also the 
 pixels r cool but they dont talk but they can shoot a bomb and make u fly and kill mosnters easy 
 so yea get them all ok
  
  graphics: 2d is beautiful like ps3 graphics but the 3d is not as good but mario is getting in shape 
 thats all i cud say for dis..
  
  sound: lol sound is guud i say ok like some songs r catchy some are like OK w/e onto the next plss
 
  
  Replay Value its ok i dont wanna play for 1 month
  bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imasmartguy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 4, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  I bought this game for two reasons: 1. Because it was one of the only Mario games available on the 
 Wii right now and I need some Mario. 2. The 2D and 3D switching thing looked awesome! When I got 
 it, I found out this game is great for many other reasons! The storyline is pretty good and written 
 nicely. Peach is kidnapped, again, but there are interesting twists and turns! The graphics are 
 good for the Wii, and although that isn't saying much, they really are! This game is just all around 
 awesome, so go out and buy it RIGHT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tarantula878
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 2, 2007 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Super is 2D and a 3D platformer with rpg elements in it. The game looks colorful and vibrant like 
 the teletubies. But realy has no 3D detail or graphics that look great. The best aspect of the 
 game is the intuitive gameplay. Especially the ability to switch betwee 2D and 3D worlds making 
 it a truly fun experience. I also liked the RPG/Platformer gameplay. Super Paper mario also tells 
 a good cartoonish story with a fun cast of characters. Unfortunately the game is slowed down by 
 too much diolauge. Yes, the characters in the game talk too much and that really stops the fun 
 SPM. Multiplayer would have been nice or some cooperative mode. Super Mario is a great game, but 
 is only recommended to RPG or Platformer fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bnwchbammer
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 2, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  An interesting idea for a game. It's a little hard to desctibe. I picked it up because I read some 
 reviews on gamespot and my friend was so crazy about, so i figured, why not? It's a fun game, I'll 
 give it that, its got a nice storyline and i like how you have to really think to solve some of 
 the puzzles in this game. Lemme break it down.
  
  Gameplay - 8
  It is a fun game, the puzzles are fun to solve. The storyline is pretty good, and I like that you 
 can play as 4 different people with different abilities.
  
  Graphics - 7
  Not amazingly impressive, but whatever. I dunno, they might have gone too far with the old school 
 graphics. But it is enjoyable.
  
  Sound - 9
  Yeah, whatever. Nothing bad at all. I dunno, it's nice to listen to.
  
  Value - 9
  I dunno, 
 it's worth it. what is it like 40 bucks now? Not bad, well worth it, 8 levels with some side stuff.
 
  
  Tilt - 8
  Yeah, I figured it was good enough for an 8.1, so there you go.
  
  Overall its a good game, pick it up when you have the time. You won't be sorry for it, cause its 
 really a pretty cool game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -PresidentEvil-
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 2, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, being my first Paper Mario, it is pretty good. This game is just cool. That is the 
 only way to describe Super Paper Mario. It really has everything in it. It is funny, colorful, 
 and not to mention has what every game needs, being fun.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is a mix of RPG with some classic Super Mario Bros. I think this is a great mixture, 
 and should be done with more RPGs. Castlevania is also a game like this, and sadly, I can't think 
 fo any more. One problem is that there is too much talking, even for an RPG. It is just not that 
 bad because the dialog is always really funny. The RPG elements are that you collect items such 
 as power ups, HP upgrades, ect., and that you always speak to other characters. The Super Mario 
 Bros. feel is you defeat your enemies by jumping on them, you hit blocks, ect. The new thing about 
 the game is how you change from 2D to 3D, and how you can point and click, which can only be done 
 with the Wii. The gameplay, aside the too much dialog, is great.
  
  I give the gameplay a 9.0.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics does not wow the player, but it does 
 the job. Now, I know the Wii can do better, and many people say that is all the Wii can do, but 
 it's not. The Wii can do more. Another excuse is that it is Paper Mario, and everything is in paper. 
 That, while true, it also has the 3D elements, and they do not look good. Even the GCN can do better, 
 and that is sad.
  
  I give the graphics a 6.0 because the Wii can do more, and if the game was made for the GCN, even 
 the GCN can do better. There really is no excuse for the graphics.
  
  Sound:
  Same as the graphics, it is not good. The only cool part about the sound is how when you see a 
 new Pixi, the music is a pleasure to hear. Other than that, the sound is very annoying. The music 
 is good at times, but the sound effects are, at the most part, annoying. Also, like all the other 
 Mario games, no voice acting. But, Mario and party do make sounds.
  
  I give the sound a 7.0 because the music is overall good, but the sound effects are very annoying.
 
  
  Value:
  The story mode last 20 hours, give or take. But that is it, nothing else. There is nothing except 
 the story mode. You can play with more than Mario, but I will not spoil it for you even though 
 if you are reading this review, you would probably have already knew. The game also has a lot of 
 unlockables, but that is typical of an RPG. I give the value an 8.0 because it is a good 20 hours, 
 has many unlockables, but at the same time, no other modes or real replay value.
  
  Tilt:
  The game is very playable. It is fun, has many characters, but when you are done you are 
 done. I do not think you would want to play the game over and over, but it depends on how you feel 
 about the game.
  
  I give the tilt a 7.0 because there isn't much in the game, but it is a blast to play for the whole 
 20 hours.
  
  Overall:
  Overall, the game is good. As most games, it has it's good and bads. The game lasts a good 20 hours, 
 to most more. The environments change so you never feel bored of the game. An example is sometimes 
 you are in water, and sometimes you are in outer space. The sound effects are annoying, the graphics 
 are for the GCN, and the gameplay truly is the best part about the game. There is only one word 
 to describe this game, and that word is cool . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeymew
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 1, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  This game just left me wanting more old-school Super Mario Brothers. First off, SPM is very VERY 
 easy. Not challenging at all. The graphics are cool, the style is GREAT, the 2-D / 3-D flip -flopping 
 is really cool too. So while all the elements of a great game are there, Super Paper Mario just 
 doesn't deliver. While it kinda tries to be a RPG in the sense that it carries a convoluted story, 
 there are really NO RPG elements to speak of. I hardly used my inventory, I only needed a few of 
 the Pixels, etc. It's just too basic of a story (more like soap-opera) . I feel like they put too 
 much emphasis on trying to make a story, and too little emphasis on trying to make the game fun. 
 All in all, it's OK, but not that great. I sold mine back to EB right after I complete it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aznboi66
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  First off, I had preordered this game, and I don't regret it. It's absolutely lovely to see Mario 
 again (hadn't owned a Mario game since NES) . The RPG aspect of the game, such as the health, items, 
 and what not takes some getting used to if you're just an old fashioned Mario player as I was, 
 but it quickly gets accustomed to. You'll get to use Mario, Bowser, Peach, and Luigi depending 
 on the situation as each has his/her own unique skill and ability. Most of the time though, you'll 
 be sticking with ol' red&amp; blue. The storyline is interesting, but I agree, there's just WAY 
 too much reading involved, I like reading but in a video game to this degree is just ridiculous. 
 If you play straight through you'll probably finish in ~15hrs. If you stick around to do all the 
 extra stuff, play the arcade games, collect cards and the whole bunch of things you'll probably 
 never take the game out of your Wii. Overall this game should not be missed by ANYONE. One of the 
 best games out there for the Wii that isn't just minigame based. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonutTrooper
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 30, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Ah, the good old days of 8-bit mario coming back. I'm once again glad to see that even Nintendo, 
 the makers of the Wii, realize not every single feature of the game needs motion sensitivity. The 
 feel is very classic, and has that fun RPG twist, which makes the just right balance between Oblivion 
 and Final Fantasy 12. At points in the game you will feel decades younger, but it's that feel that 
 made the game great. The 3D ability was fun for a while but is not for the OCD, becuase if so, 
 you will spend every second in 3D to pick up each coin, kill each enemy, and aquire each item that 
 can be found in the third dimension as you can.
  
  Overall, this game is great. Especially the giant 8-bit mario crushing everything in the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gam3r3OOO
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 29, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is both funny and cool at the same time. It maintains a flat look that is really polished 
 while being kind of pixelated at the same time. It makes for an interesting mix between new and 
 old.
  
  Going into this game I was wondering how they were doing the RPG part of the game since the past 
 2 iterations were both turn based. Good news: you still get experience via level ups. The other 
 thing I was worried about was what kind of controls the wii mote was going to implement in this 
 game. Fortunately they're pretty intuitive.
  
  Gameplay:
  Everything was pretty easy to pick up. Using the pixl abilities is pretty straight forward. Occasionally 
 there was a time when you would get stuck and would have to use your 'revealing' ability to find 
 a hidden door. Most of the time the game is really fun to play. There is a lot of reading through 
 out the game though. It seems more so than the last game. There is a lot of hidden jokes (that 
 make reference to certain stereotypes) in some of the dialogs between characters.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are superb. In the 3D mode there isn't as much stuff there. In 2D the 
 game looks just like a next gen take on Super Mario World.
  
  Sound:
  Well this is the kind of music you would expect in a mario game. It fits the game very well. So 
 do the sounds. If you liked the music in Paper Mario 2 you will like the music in this game.
  
  Value:
  If you're like me you're probably not going to play the game more than once. The 
 game is just long enough. Its not over quickly but its not epic either. There really isn't much 
 here to keep you playing after you finish the main game. There are the monster cards that you can 
 collect and the cooking for example.
  
  The plot has some interesting twists and the game is very fun to play. There were times when I 
 got really annoyed at the difficulty of the puzzles. So many times I got stuck with seemingly no 
 way of getting further. The bosses almost seem too easy (maybe I was just too prepared when I fought 
 them) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroidkille
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  The Wii up until this game I thought was going to fall into the foot steps of the Gamecube with 
 there being so few quality games out there for the system. Then when I bought the game I was surprised 
 to find such visual effects with the flipping of the Mario. This is also a quality game that which 
 also surprise me because I thought I was going to wait until Resident Evil or Metroid came for 
 the Wii, but I was prooven wrong. The game is humerus at some parts and has some twist and turns 
 in the story line which is missing in these adventure games that are made these days. This is what 
 I honestly thought of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkrul3s
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 29, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best Wii games out there. Gameplay: The game play is fun because it is 
 a mix of sidescrolling and rpg. It may look fun to play in real time but it is wasn't polished. 
 It works well but it feels like it just isn't completed.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are amazing from artistic point of view. It all looks nice and it is very 
 colorful.
  
  Sound: The sound is okay. Nothing great, but it isn't bad.
  
  Value: The game last quite a while but once you beat it chances are that you will never play it 
 again.
  
  Tilt: The game is an overall fantastic game. 'nuff said
  
  I should warn you that there is a lot of talking in the game. It is funny but when you die and you 
 are forced to go through the same cutscene and read all the dialogue over and over again is really 
 annoying. Beyond that the game is really memorable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tai_chi_rabbit
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 28, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  O. k. So aside from the fact that this IS a gamecube game sloppily thrown together to be a wii game, 
 it really isn't that bad. Sure you can Tell that it was a gamecube game, but you will quickly forget 
 this, mainly because the game is so damn funny. Any one who has ever picked up a contrller (and 
 many who haven't, my MOM plays this for god's sake!) will instantly realize that the game is well 
 made. Witty dialogue, funy Nintendo In-Jokes , and all around craziness abound, which is kinda 
 what anyone who played the Thousand-Year Door would expect from a Paper Mario, but this time it's 
 SUPER! You can grow big! You can play as a big ugly lizard thing, a bimbo, and Mario's Wus Brother! 
 You CAN'T get badges! You can change the world sideways, which, unless you laughed at Saw and Hostel, 
 will make you sick to your stomach, mainly because it's trippy as all get out, and because you 
 cried like a baby when you watched Saw, so ha. Overall, Great game, good for some laughs, would 
 definatly suggest getting it, but make sure you don't already feel sick when you play this, because 
 it may just make you feel worse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazzman1302
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 27, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  SPM is great game but has minor flaws in its base. But, all aside its a good game.
  Gameplay: SPM is a fun game. It's a casual 2-D plattformer with an ingenious twist, the ability 
 to switch into a 3-D perspective. Combined with simple controls forms a solid fun time. The story, 
 though a little retro, is simple but satisfying. Also as an added bonus during the main story sidequests 
 such as cooking and arcades will pop-up . they're only optoinal though.
  Graphics: for a 2-D game these graphics are not bad at all. though on a system like Wii they can 
 definetely improve.
  Sound: The games music is alright but little too eightys. It may sound too retro to newer gamers. 
 Also SFX do get a little reppetitive.
  Value: the overall game is a classic that can be enjoyed over &amp; over. With plenty of sidequests 
 to complete the game has great replay value as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario Review
  The Nintendo Wii has featured very few innovative games thus far, and I have been looking for another 
 great game. I had a lot of fun with Twilight Princess, and Wario Ware, but there needed to be something 
 else. Super Paper Mario became by choice and I am really having fun with it. Although it isn't 
 the astonishing RPG, it proves to be a terrific combination of RPG and platformer. Players hold 
 the Wiimote sideways and use basic controls to maneuver Mario and his allies. The game starts off 
 quite simple. You begin by solving very simple puzzles and learning the basics. After completing 
 one or two chapters, things indeed pick up. Many characters are introduced, and quite a few of 
 them are used in the game. There are 4 characters used and they all have their unique abilities. 
 You are required to remember the capabilities of each character to solve the puzzles. Overall, 
 the game is fairly tough at the end, but it is very short. It can be beaten in about twelve hours. 
 I liked this game, because there were many hints of RPG throughout the story. Items are used during 
 battle, and it isn't a simple run and jump until you clear the level type of game. There are thorough 
 conversations that take a while to read, and there are a variety of enemies with their unique abilities. 
 Sadly, combat is not a region where Super Paper Mario shines. In the beginning, all you need to 
 do is jump on top of your enemies to defeat them. As you progress, some enemies can not be jumped 
 out so you must resort to other methods. Fortunately, there are a lot of ways to fight of your 
 foes. I don't want to get into the things you can use to defeat the baddies, because it may spoil 
 some unlockables awarded for venturing far. As I mentioned before, items are used throughout the 
 game. You can buy them with coins or find them during battle or in a secret location. Some items 
 power you up while others attack enemies. There are plenty to use, but a couple of them can cost 
 you a fortune. The final hint of RPG is the leveling idea. You get a score as you journey from 
 chapter to chapter. When your score reaches a certain point, you will level upgranting a boost 
 in health or attack. Super Paper Mario may seem straightforward, but it has its few side things. 
 There is a lottery featuring three minigames which are addiciting for a while. Aside from this, 
 there aren't many extra quests. The visuals in this game are great, even though it is 2-Dimensional. 
 You can turn the whole location into the 3-D but it isn't much different. There are a variety of 
 characters and a lot of them have never been featured in any other Mario installment. Each chapter 
 depicts different backgrounds. Mario and his buddies also look nice. The only problem is that the 
 graphics in this game are simple and not very thorough. Luckily, this idea works and I think it 
 is perfect. The visuals aren't the greatest but they are bright and cheerful enough to deserve 
 a lot of credit. I also really enjoyed the sounds. There are only a few problems with it. Nobody 
 talks which isn't anything different. Luckily, the music is great. It changes in each chapter and 
 it works well to suit each theme of the chapter. The only problem is that some chapters may take 
 a long time so the music tends to repeat itself. Otherwise, I enjoyed the sounds. Unfortunately, 
 the replay value of this game is low. I can't often come back to this game Once you beat it and 
 have a good time, it isn't worth going back to. All in all, Super Paper Mario is a video game kids 
 and adults will spend portions of their summer on. I say go out and try it. There is some funny 
 humor suitable for all ages and it is a bit of a challenge, it just needs to be longer. That concludes 
 the review and thank you for reading it. -Oblivion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XExPiReD08X
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 26, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  I give this game a 9.6 becuase i think is such a good mario game! The fact that you can flip between 
 2D to 3D is a major thing and its not like you'll only be using it once or twice. you HAVE to use 
 it to get through the game. sad that only mario can use that special though. I just got the game 
 today, June 26 2007 becauses its my birthday! so i guess im still classified as a noob at it. i 
 like tha fact that in this game, a new special trick you learn wont only be used liek a couple 
 times, you have to use them to beat the levels. its such a good puzzle/ stratedgy RPG from my perspective. 
 I REALLY RECOOMEND THIS GAME TO ANY WII OWNER WHO LOVES MARIO GAMES AND REALLY WANTS TO PLAY A 
 RPG, SIDE SCROLLING GAME!!! =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingshy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  The first Paper Mario game was on the N64, where it received high scores from critics and is one 
 of the greatest games on the N64. The sequel, Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, graced Nintendo's 
 purple lunchbox and, like it's predecessor, greatly pleased it's critics. Both followed the RPG 
 system, but then it turned right back around to platforming goodness in the Wii hit, Super Paper 
 Mario. The story is related around our portly plumber Mario as he sets out to collect eight Pure 
 Hearts to defeat Count Bleck, a new villain in the series' roundtable of baddies. The Count sets 
 out to destroy the worlds thanks to the wedding of Bowser and Peach, which causes a giant black 
 hole to sprout and flourish, which our hero has to stop. He has a fairylike helper named Tippi, 
 and, along the quest, you get partners called Pixls that perform certain abilities. The controls 
 are really simple, as you tip the Wii-Mote horizontally. You move Mario with the Control Pad , 
 jump with the 2 Button, and use the Pixl with the 1 Button. Tippi also helps out when you point 
 the Wii-Mote at the screen to find secrets and know about certain characters. She really takes 
 the place of your first partner in the previous Paper Mario games, right down to the Tattle ability. 
 You also learn the power to flip to 3D, which is activated by pressing the A Button. Gameplay is 
 akin to previous Mario platformers, such as jumping on enemies, but also adds a RPG feel to it, 
 such as HP. It really puts a spin on a good series. However, the game has an almost predictable 
 storyline, and you can figure the story secrets before World 4. The game also suffers from what 
 I call 'puzzle withdrawl'. In some of the later worlds, it has you trekking back and forth trying 
 to find this, find that, do this, but, wait, gotta go do that before you finally get to a room 
 very near where you started. Very annoying, but such idiosyncricies don't keep this game down. 
 With massive replay value and side-quests, such as the return of the Pit of 100 Trials, this addition 
 to the Paper Mario family won't be a letdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmazoLK
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  From the moment I turned off my Gamecube, and flicked off the TV after beating one of my favorite 
 games of all time, Paper Mario: The Thousand Year Door, I didnt think that Paper Mario game, and 
 even a sequel could beat its excellence. Well, guess what? I was absolutely right. When they first 
 announced the sequel to Paper Mario 2, Super Paper Mario for the Gamecube, I was in instant happiness, 
 but well, I knew itd happen some day. In fact, I was so excited, that when I read that it was 
 going in a different direction and into this new Platforming style, I instantly knew that this 
 game was never going to be better, or even as good as Paper Mario 64, or Paper Mario 2. Why you 
 ask? Well, I was in denial. But once everything came together, and how they were making it for 
 the Wii, then I instantly became more aware that this game could very well be the best game on 
 the Wii, besides Twilight Princess of course. So once I got my hands on it, and beat it, I actually 
 didnt feel that bad. Super Paper Mario is a solid game, but I got to say, it was a disappointment 
 overall.
  
  Peach, the sweetheart of Marios for the whole existence of Nintendo, is suddenly awaken to the 
 site of a wedding ceremony, but whos getting married you ask? Peach of course, but to who? Bowser. 
 Thats right, Marios arch enemy, the Koopa King himself, Bowser. But why is she getting married 
 to this monster? Well the answer is simple, she is being ordered to by, the main villain of Super 
 Paper Mario: Count Bleck. When you first see Count Bleck, you notice how he looks like an evil 
 villain, so you can safely assume that hes in fact the main villain. But why is Count Bleck ordering 
 Peach and Bowser to wed? Well, the answer is that Count Bleck possesses the Dark Prognosticus, 
 a book that predicts the end of all world, and to do this, Peach must Marry Bowser. A void is opened 
 in reality and it threatens to swallow up everything unless the hero, Mario, can get seven life 
 hearts, which are like the Stars in the other Paper Marios, which will, as said in the Light Prognosticus, 
 help Mario in defeating Count Bleck and destroying the void. The story is a typical Paper Mario 
 story, with the little cinematics in between every Chapters end. The only problem with the story 
 is that theres tons, and I mean, tons of reading. By the end of the game, youve probably read 
 through about the whole Lord of the Rings book, plus some. Well, no, Im being sarcastic a bit, 
 but there still is too much reading, even more than in past Paper Mario games. It also has a very 
 predictable ending.
  
  Super Paper Mario pretty much looks exactly like Paper Mario: The Thousand Year Door for the Gamecube. 
 Since Super Paper Mario was originally made for the Gamecube, and using the Gamecube for half of 
 the development, makes the graphics pretty sub-par compared to what the Wii can really do. But, 
 the games looks beautiful, no doubt about it. Every area you go in is colourful as a rainbow. The 
 art style that was made famous in Paper Mario 2 made its return with most of the creatures in 
 the game being made out of paper, and some of the enemies being in a cool folded style in 3D. Now, 
 all this Im talking about is when youre playing in 2D mode, but when you switch over to the 3D 
 side of things, it can get pretty ugly. Not ugly as in, ugly textures, or characters lose pixels 
 or anything, I mean ugly as all of the colours just disappear because theyre all off to the side 
 of the screen. It seems pretty cool when you see things from Marios viewpoint, but when you see 
 that theres absolutely no colours or anything, it makes you quite disappointed.
  
  Again, the music and sound in Super Paper Mario is about the same as in Paper Mario 2, with some 
 more forgettable tunes. But some tunes are still stuck in my head with its catchy tunes, so its 
 not all horrible. I really wish though, that Nintendo would get rid of this MIDI music it keeps 
 using over, and over and over again. Its time to get with the time and start using some real music. 
 But all in all, Super Paper Mario still has the charming sounds it usually has like the BOP! 
 when you jump on an enemy, or the DUA DUA DUA! when you hit a ? Block. Its all still here. Mario 
 also has most of his grunts and sounds that he usually makes, all probably from past Paper Mario 
 games because non of them sound any different.
  
  Super Paper Marios switch to a Platforming game was pretty great, but nowhere close to perfect. 
 Now, you can kill enemies in real time, instead of going to the old battle scene, stopping you 
 from moving forward in the game. Now, Mario can just jump on enemies, bit its not like old Mario 
 games. This time, enemies have health, which is a certain number, and whenever Mario jumps on the 
 enemy, it takes off some of the damage and tells you right away in the form of the ol star. You 
 can also shake the Wii remote to gain extra experience which will eventually level you up, just 
 like in past Paper Mario game. But the experience is different in Super Paper Mario. Instead of 
 Star Points, you now just collect points that add up to your total. Then, once you reach a certain 
 amount, you level up. Theres also no flower points anymore, so when you level up, only your max 
 HP, and attack power moves up, but you cant chose which one to raise. The controls are simple. 
 You hold the Wii Remote sideways like a classic NES controller with the 1 and 2 buttons being beside 
 each other like A and B. The directional pad moves Mario left, right, up and down, while the 2 
 button makes Mario jump, The 1 button uses the Pixl youre using at the time, who are little friends 
 you collect on your way through the main quest. Pixls are like partners in other Paper Mario games. 
 These Pixls let you do all sorts of things like turn paper thin, use a hammer, ground pound, and 
 even shrink to almost the size of an ant. I like the idea of the Pixls, but sometimes it seems 
 like some of them were just put in there because they couldnt think of anything better. You can 
 also play as 4 characters in total: Mario, Peach, Bowser, and Luigi. Mario can switch into 3D, 
 Peach can float over surfaces with her umbrella, Bowser can breath fire, and Luigi can super-jump, 
 which are really high jumps. You will probably end up using Mario for the most part because hes 
 the only character that can turn into 3D. Once you get past a certain part where you gain a certain 
 ability, you can change the perspective from 2D, to 3D. Once in 3D, you have a time limit bar, 
 which will run out eventually if you keep using it for too long. Once in 3D, things that seem impossible 
 to go to become possible, and you can do things that you were never able to do in past Mario games. 
 At one part in the game, theres a giant cliff that you cant jump over no matter what. But once 
 you switch to 3D, a hill in the background goes over the cliff and lets you walk across it with 
 ease. Theres also items that you can use that heal you, and certain items can make you stronger 
 for a period of time. To use some items, you have to do a certain thing with the Wii Remote in 
 order to get the top usage out of the item. Sometimes you must tilt the Wii Remote a certain way, 
 sometimes you have to shack the Wii Remote, and sometimes you have to point at a certain spot, 
 but it all works out at the end. To get into the mini-menu, you press both 1+2 together, but sometimes 
 you accidentally press one of them first and causes you to do something you didnt want to do. 
 All in all, Super Paper Mario has some great gameplay, but its not perfected yet.
  
  Yes, after you have beaten the final boss, you can save afterwards and continue to try to collect 
 everything. The things you can still do after you beat the game is pretty much play the mini games 
 at the arcade, and try to collect all of the recipes, there are no more Badges to collect. Collecting 
 everything might take time, but Id rather just play the game over again because its not an entirely 
 long game, took me about 20 hours, but its not entirely short either, so it can be beefy, if you 
 make it out to be.
  
  Like I said before, I was right when I said no other Paper Mario game will ever be able to beat 
 out the excellence of The Thousand Year Door, but Super Paper Mario is still a fantastic game, 
 no doubt. There are some drawbacks in the gameplay, but theres also drawbacks from the Music/sound 
 department, and form the graphical department too. But to say that Super Paper Mario is as good, 
 or even better than other Paper Marios before it is ridiculous. Super Paper Mario is a great game, 
 but nowhere close, does it come to past Paper Mario game before it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cros1695
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 26, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  It's a pretty good game to get hooked on. The new battling system is pretty good, and the use of 
 different Pixls was nice. Playing it was a great experiance in the first place, and it was probaly 
 the only thing I could think about for a few days. The only difficulty was the actually combination 
 of the RPG/Platformer mix, but many of the other things makes up for that. Anyone even looking 
 for a good gaming experiance and a Wii should get this game. It's a pretty awsome game to own in 
 the first place. Pretty much, buy it, play, and be amazed with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Z3r02007
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is all about marriages. The marriage of platforming and role playing games, the 
 marriage of 2d and 3d, and the marriage of Peach and Bowser? Oh yes, its another Paper Mario 
 game from the folks at Intelligent Systems. Super Paper Mario is another fine example how great 
 gameplay, style, and story can make a product worth more then the sum of their parts. Its a highly 
 enjoyable adventure that will delight many, and a nice reminder why we bought the Wii in the first 
 place. Super Paper Mario starts like any Mario RPG. Mario and Luigi are hanging out, bored and 
 waiting for something interesting to happen. Of course, something bad has gone down at Princess 
 Peachs castle. But, Bowser isnt the culprit this time around. The devious Count Bleck is in Mushroom 
 Kingdom wrecking havoc, and one forced marriage later, Bleck has opened a dark rift in the dimensions, 
 threatening to swallow the universe. Mario then finds himself in the town of Flipside, where Mario 
 meets Merlon and Tippi. Mario learns that to destroy the rift, he must gather all eight of the 
 pure hearts and to save the universe from annihilation. Thats a lot of work for one overweight 
 Italian plumber, and youll love every moment as you advance through the healthy 20-hour main adventure. 
 The plot plays out with the Mario RPG norm of sharply written and genuinely hilarious text, but 
 the writers managed to make a touching story about love and sacrifice along with the general silliness 
 associated with the game. The characters youll meet are all memorable and entertaining in their 
 own unique way. The story is great, but there is a game here too. At first, everything seems like 
 a normal Mario platformer, with the jumping and block-breaking and so forth. But there is a unique 
 RPG twist thrown in too. As you defeat enemies and collect items, youll gain experience points 
 that upgrade your attack power and health points. Youll also be using various items to heal yourself 
 or launch cool attacks on your opponents. One neat feature is that item use leads to a quick minigame 
 that used the Wiis motion functionality very wall. From tilting the Wii-mote to shooting stars 
 on screen, these minigames are not particularly challenging, but they are a nice addition that 
 mixes things up from time to time. Along your journey, youll meet Peach, Bowser, and a whole band 
 of little companions known as the Pixls. They each lend a unique talent to use in battle or solve 
 the games many puzzles. But, by far, the coolest feature is the ability to flip the environment. 
 The 3d perspective offers insight to hidden routes, items, and other things that cant be seen 
 in a 2d perspective. The flip feature is the most innovative part of the game, and shows a great 
 care for the level design. Super Paper Mario has some of the coolest levels seen in a game, and 
 exploring the many unique worlds is a absolute treat. Unfortunately, being a Mario RPG, there are 
 some flaws that are hard to ignore. Although flipping is extremely cool, the controls for a 2d 
 game have a hard time translating well into 3d. Navigating Mario isnt as smooth as it should be 
 when in 3d. Also, the game has very little replay value. There some sidequests, but since the game 
 is very easy, there is little reason to find the more advanced items and treasures. 20 hours is 
 healthy, but the game will go by quickly, and by the end, one may think the end has ripped you 
 off. But, you arent. The game is extremely satisfying to the end, and the clever mix of the Wiis 
 unique control scheme with some unconventional ideas, you get a very enjoyable game. Super Paper 
 Mario is a fine addition to the Wiis growing library and a true instant classic. 9 out of 10
 
  
  Pros: Great gameplay, sharp story, unique ideas that are well used without feeling like a gimmick
 
  Cons: Short, controls are sometimes a little clumsy, little to no replay value 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrax80
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 28, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario has one of those ideas that makes you think Why didn't anyone think of this before? 
 . By this i mean the flip ability in Super Paper Mario. It's done very well and is NOT a gimmick 
 that was thrown in at the last minute. The entire game is designed around this function. But that 
 being said it is also where most of the games flaws begin to show.
  
  Graphics: The graphics look excellent in 2D and everything looks stunning and the animation is 
 also done nicely. Many places are almost perfect replicas of old mario levels and also new levels 
 look amazing as well. But when you flip to 3D, the graphics, while still looking nice, sharp and 
 clean, also look a little empty and barren. I feel they could have done a little more here.
  
  Sound: There is some nice and original music in super paper mario and it's nice to notice little 
 details like the difference in foot steps for each character and the sound coming from the Wii-mote 
 speakers. The game would have benefited with some voice acting which would make the dialog even 
 more enjoyable.
  
  Gameplay: Speaking of dialog, it is very well done and if you have played past paper mario games, 
 then you should expect to see the same level of quality here as well. It's amazing how the dialog 
 can create so many distinct personalities and bring them to life.
  
  Like i said before, the game uses the flip feature and the entire game is designed around this 
 feature, and for the most part it is done very well. But most of the games little flaws are caused 
 by this feature. One is that when you flip to 3D it becomes hard to control mario because you are 
 using the D-Pad, if you have ever played a 3D game with a D-Pad then you know how much harder it 
 is without the use of a joystick. Another flaw is that when the camera is flipped it faces only 
 one side, so you can't see if an enemy is coming behind you or a dangerous pit-fall. Also sometimes 
 blocks and stuff like that get stuck in front of the camera and you can't see. Another thing is 
 that the most of the puzzles become predictable, since they are mostly designed around this you 
 will flip every time you enter a new area, the game has many clever uses and hidden areas that 
 can only be discovered by flipping, but it's done so many times that it's surprise is gone after 
 a while and the flip mechanic makes most of the puzzles a little
  easier.
  
  The game mixes the RPG and Platforming elements into one and it's done well, you can use a bunch 
 of amazing items and collect many things in the game. You can also level up as you go and collect 
 experience points from enemies. You also get party members, but apparently mario will be the most 
 useful character in the game while the others will only come in handy in certain areas and situations. 
 There is also a-lot of navigation to the menus and some hot-keys feature would have been welcomed.
 
  
  The enemies and boss battles are all nicely designed. The game is a little on the easy side, the 
 hardest parts in the game is mostly trying to figure what to do next or trying to figure out how 
 to defeat a boss. It seems you level up faster than the enemies get harder.
  
  The Wii functionality here feels a little tacked on except for the part where you use the pixl 
 ability to get information by pointing at the screen. Speaking of Pixls they are all amazing and 
 unique, while they all come in handy in only certain places and situations, I found Boomer to be 
 the most used pixl since his blast damage is very useful in taking care of tough enemies quickly. 
 Anyway, the reason the other Wii functionalities feel tacked on is that, since in past mario games 
 these little mini-games were done with different button and analog movements, but now most of the 
 time you are asked to just shake the Wii-mote. While this works sometimes it also doesn't make 
 sense in other situations. Another time they ask you to match the Wii-mote movements on the screen, 
 i didn't find this tacked on either but it didn't always read my movements.
  
  Overall this is a great game and while it has many little flaws here and there it is still a great 
 game that should not be missed by any Wii owner. The dialog is nice and well written and the gameplay 
 is still very enjoyable. I recommend this game to any RPG, platforming, and or Mario fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shivercraft
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 24, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  I really liked the overall feel of this game, the way you you kicked enormous amounts of anus with 
 Bowser's flame felt satisfying, the artwork was simple and beautiful at the same time, and the 
 controls felt very responsive. The blending of RPG elements into this side scrolling/3D platformer 
 was very well done, but the amount of time I had to revisit the same areas for minute things made 
 me want to strangle someone with my wrist strap.
  
  The menu system was also infuriating, you do have a quick menu, but you have to visit the SOB about 
 every five minutes in this game. You can get lost on ridiculous puzzles sometimes, and feel very 
 foolish that you had to pay a fortune teller to tell you to give a map to someone so they can wipe 
 their butt with it. (Yeah, this happened.........)
  
  In short, while this was not a bad game, the gameplay was infuriating at times and really killed 
 alot of the fun factor for me. The game is pretty easy though and should be recommended for casual 
 gamers. Not bad, but not as good as it should have been in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drumpants
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  i'm going to split this into sections.
  
  Graphics; Candy to the eyes. The thought out geometrical shapes and designs are marvelous. The 
 look is appealing, especially to artsy people. In general, the Wii's graphics a whole lot better 
 than the game cube graphics, but it still looks pretty awesome.
  
  Gameplay: Simple, go around defeating enemies in the classic platform style gaming, and also take 
 up your role in an RPG style game as well. You can grow levels depending on your experience points, 
 I find that pretty fun. Especially that you can choose which level, in which world you want to 
 visit, after you've completed it.
  
  You get different Pixls throughout the game, each having special abilities to get you through different 
 tasks. You can go from 2D to 3D in this game. By the way, 3D looks pretty nice. In certain situations, 
 you need to use 3D whether it's to uncover something, get behind a wall, avoid enemies, or whether 
 you just like being 3D.
  
  Controls: Easy to figure out, just hold the Wii mote sideways and use 1,2, +, etc. You can also 
 point the Wii Remote at the screen and have Tippi discover hidden things for you, which is very 
 handy. I think it's pretty simple, and that anyone can figure them out.
  
  hope this helped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SMBfan13
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 24, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario for the Wii is a cool game, but I though it was very short in terms of the story. 
 No extra stuff was available to do after you beat the game except Pit of 100 trials which was annoying 
 as hell. The story is pretty good and I give Intelligent Systems a thumbs up on that. It's not 
 a very long story and all there is to it is just basic platforming and solving mysteries and finding 
 clues. No one should need any help to complete the game, so you won't need strategy guides unless 
 ur a noob. I'm a Paper Mario fan myself, and I gotta say that this isn't the best game in the series. 
 I personally liked the first Paper Mario that was on the N64 the best. Super Paper Mario has no 
 turn based fighting, which really sucks in my personal opinion. Instead you just come in contact 
 with enemies by hitting them directly using head stomps and using pixls which are little creatures 
 that have special abilities. The major failure in this game is that there's too much dialog. Also 
 this could have been easily made for the Gamecube because there's not a lot of Wii content. You 
 pretty much just hold the remote sideways the whole time. Like I said, short game, but if you like 
 Paper Mario like I do, you'll probably enjoy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Z00Mbite
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  When it's time to see the good games the Wii can dish out, and Super Paper Mario comes to mind. 
 Fans who love their Italian Plumber in 2D, and those who like to mix things up, this game is guaranteed 
 to satisfy your craving. The art style is great, and it keeps the old genre fresh and alive. It's 
 cute and creative, best suited for those rounded gamers.
  
  It attempts to mix a bit of RPG elements into the game, so it can step away from the traditional 
 Mario gameplay. So, yes, there is an HP system, and yes the game is much more forgiving than World 
 8-4. As an RPG, it is dependent on the Menu system, which you have to switch to every 10 seconds. 
 Also, there different characters that you can use throughout the game (Peach, Pixes, etc....) , 
 but for most of the time, you will be sticking with Mario. After all, he has the Flippy command. 
 As Mario, you are able to flip between 2D and 3D. Although it would be nice to stick to the 2D 
 world, Nintendo decided to add puzzles; therefore, forcing you use 3D Mario. Well, not all is bad 
 in 3D realm; there are hidden items and characters, so it maintains exploration. In an attempt 
 to become a puzzle game, you have to use EVERYONE's abilities. It's pretty frustrating, especially 
 when you forget that you have a certain ability. Remember, you can't get 1000000000 rupies by jumping 
 1000000000 times. Controls stay traditional, and makes little use of the Wii controller. At least 
 you can use the remote as a flashlight-type-thing! The remote is used sideways (similar to Excite 
 Trucks) to keep things old-school.
  
  The story is pretty average compared to most RPGs out there, but it has a bunch of dialoge (Without 
 voice! Yay!) . The Wii Remote sounds sort of cheap, but that was expected. The background and game 
 sound feels nostalgic... it's like a dream again.
  
  I guess what keeps the game alive is the art style and and the whole aspect of exploration. Half 
 way, I realized that I wasn't playing for the story, but it was because I like Mario games. It 
 was a blast playing though.
  
  Would I recommend it? Only if you have a Wii and you love the Italian Plumber. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tH3_cH3a7_027
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 23, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  THE BAD
  
  Don't get me wrong I like this game, but why did Nintendo decide that the 1. Turned-based fighting, 
 2. Badges and chosen pathed level-ups and 3. Multi-functional partners had to go? 1. Not much to 
 say here. I just feel like I'm cheating when I use Bowser. All you do is hold a button down and 
 occasional use your Pixl to defeat any enemy. This is especially annoying with boss battles.
  
  2. Well your characters level up simultaneously at health or power. Way too simplistic. Don't 
 get me started on the no badges move.
  
  3. There's a total of 16 playable characters (4 main 12 Pixl) .
  Pixls have one function apiece. 
 That's right. One. About half can't even attack. The main four can jump and have one function. 
 Two of these four their function is added to jumping. Oh and you have one Pixl always out that just 
 solves puzzles and is a main character in the storyline. Now that your convinced not to buy the 
 game, here's some reasons why it's still slightly worth playing.
  
  THE GOOD
  
  1. The addition of the 3-D flip is nice, but is the easy solution to many puzzles.
  
  2. Story 
 line is still funny. 3. The addition of items like the little 8-bit guys around you is nice, there's 
 a few other things like it. Really I don't have too much to say that stood out as great, I guess 
 I was just to dissapointed by the expectations I had for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luislb88
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 23, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  Well, next week I plan to add at least 4 games to my collection. Resident Evil 4 Wii Edition, Twilight 
 Princess Wii Edition, Transformers Wii Edition, and that new Pokemon game for the Wii. I know what 
 your thinking. The Pokemon game has online multiplayer and I have just GOT to try it out. Also, 
 you might point out that I already own the GC versions of RE4 and LoZ: TP. True, but getting my 
 hands on the Wii versions is just too much of a temptation to pass up. Sure, I'm going to miss 
 my chicago typewritter for a little while (man I love that thing on RE4) but I hear that these 
 games are increadable on the Wii. RE4 is supposedly a whole new experiance with the motion sensitive 
 remote.
  
  You may ask yourself why spend what seems like unnecessary money? It's because I love what I do. 
 I love playing video games, getting into the stories and of course blasting my way through hordes 
 of zombies. Being the hero, being the villain. I can't get enough of it. With scant few months 
 of summer freedom before heading back to college classes, and with my life after college most likely 
 dominated by a job, hey. I'm getting mine while I still can. So bask, bask in the glory that is 
 youth and video games, because it only comes once my friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nzilla
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Paper Mario has always been stupidly fun to play. This latest installment is no exception. The 
 new twist to this latest version is the 3-D aspect they've added to it. Ever played a 2-D side 
 scroller? Ever wonder what Mario or Sonic was seeing as they bounced their merry way along? This 
 game answers those questions as you can turn the entire field on it's axis.
  
  This new feature adds a whole new dimension to the game. Yes, I do realize what I just did in that 
 statement. Since everything in this world is paper, things that you can see in the 3-D world are 
 invisible in the 2-D world because you can only see their side. Or you can hide things like pipes, 
 enemies, or question blocks behind what seems to be solid objects. New paths, new doors, and new 
 enemies pop up whenever you go into 3-D world.
  
  In addition to Mario, a familiar cast comes back reminiscent of the days of Mario RPG. Along the 
 way you meet up with Peach, Bowser, and a newcomer, Luigi. It's about time he gets some of the 
 action. Each has unique abilities. Luigi and Peach have carried over from their Super Mario 2 days 
 very well. Peach floats around like she never heard of gravity, and Luigi can still jump like nobody's 
 business. Of course Bowser's flames are just pure destruction, and as an added bonus Bowser does 
 twice the damage that the other three can do, making him very valuable.
  
  In addition to your main characters the game gives you sidekicks called pixiles. These little things 
 float along behind you and give you unique abilities like the use of a hammer, bombs, and even 
 floating above the floor. Of course there are paper related abilities too such as turning sideways 
 so the enemies can't see you or hurt you. These guys are reminiscent of the partners you acquire 
 during the last two Paper Mario games.
  
  This game is a blast to play and fun to explore. Also, when using the 3-D mode you'll have a lot 
 of Man I wish I had this back then moments. Remember Thwamps that rain crushing death from the 
 sky? Turn sideways and just sidestep them. You'll hate yourself for playing Super Mario World in 
 2-D.
  
  All in all this game is great. Sure, the bad guy is a little irritating, but hey, that just makes 
 pounding on him at the end so much more enjoyable. A must buy for any Wii owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaphack
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  In this game we find our heros, Mario and Luigi, sitting at their table drinking what seems to 
 be coffee. But what they don't know is that Toad is about inform them that the princess has been 
 captured. So Mario&amp; Luigi follow their instinct and find Bowser (what a surprise.) But it isn't 
 Bowser who has captured Peach, it is the nefarious and evil Count Bleck. But that's not all as 
 Bowser and Peach are being forced to be married by the Count and his assistant Natasia. Bowser 
 has no objections whatsoever but the Count's assistant has to use her hypnotic power to make Peach 
 say I do Then Luigi hops up the stairs trying to stop it, and... totally screws it up. He tries 
 to destroy the Chaos Heart which is the source of the Count's power. But is too late.
  
  While Mario is left back in Bowser's castle he finds himself being woken by a Pixl named Tippi. 
 Who says she want's to help Mario on his quest and tells him about the eight Pure Hearts which 
 are said in the Light Pros-stagi-... well lets just say there are Light and Dark versions of this 
 book. Anyway the Pure Hearts are supposed to stop the dark prophecy from destroying the world. 
 And there is where our amazing and incredibly creative adventure unfolds.
  
  The graphics in this game are indeed done very well and the gameplay has good quality as well. 
 I thought the sound was equal to the gameplay and the graphics. But later in on in the game around 
 chapter 7 or 8 the sensor bar reception starts to lag a little bit. As well when in 3-D mode the 
 movement seems slowed down a bit.
  
  But this is definitely a step up from previous Paper Mario games. Whoever came up with the idea 
 of putting 3-D mode into the game is a genius. It makes the game seem more lively and required 
 of skill and thinking. Which is what a good game needs to balance out. You have to have just the 
 right amount of required skill and thought process. (Or if you're all skill and no thought, just 
 use the guide, because this game requires you to use 3-D mode to solve almost every puzzle in the 
 game.)
  
  But in summary this game had good graphics, sound, and gameplay and got tied together with an excellent 
 plot. I recommend this game to anyone who likes games that require Nintendo fighting style (jumping, 
 hammering, and any other way to kill an enemy in an E-rated game) and thinking to solve puzzles 
 that are hard and very fun.
  
  Zaphack out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainalpha1
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is certainly different from previous Paper Mario's, though the game still prevails 
 in more than one way.
  
  The game starts off with the Mario Bros. sitting comfortably in their home, when they go outside 
 to see that Toad has yet again the usual news concerning the Princess. Once Luigi and Mario arrive 
 at Bowser's Castle, they are surprised to see that the King of Koopa's is without Peach. After 
 which, Count Bleck appears with the princess and absorbs everything except for Mario. He soon meets 
 Tippi, a pixl, who transports him to Flipside where the journey truly begins.
  
  The game play is very different from former Paper Mario adventures. Instead of the typical turn 
 based battles, the action is instant, much more like the Super Mario series. Though if you don't 
 have a high attack level, you may have to hop on the enemy's heads more than once. Much like that 
 of an RPG. The screen isn't always 2-D either. With one tap of the A button, the view allows you 
 to look through Mario's perspective, becoming 3-D. You can also point at the TV to reveal secret 
 doors and passages.
  
  Super Paper Mario has a large variety of characters. There is of course Mario, leading the game, 
 along with the usual Peach and Bowser. A nice surprise to this adventure is the addition of Luigi. 
 These four are all playable as you progress through the game. The twist here is that Bowser isn't 
 your problem. It's the newly added Count Bleck, and his band of villains that try to get in you 
 way. There's also the plethora of side characters. There's Tippi, who aids from beginning to end 
 throughout your journey, as well as Merlin and others who give you advice along the way. In addition, 
 you receive several pixl's you collect along the way that have different abilities that help in 
 different situations.
  
  The graphics this time around are spectacular. The Wii really makes Mario look very paper like, 
 and simply perfects his image. The surroundings certainly look great, flowing in very well with 
 the paper theme, doing something the previous games had slowly built up on.
  
  Though there's nothing outstanding in the music in Super Paper Mario, it still sounds great. It 
 certainly goes with the mood of the level, like it should. There are no awkward moments with the 
 game and the sound, giving you a great experience. Certain noises can also come out of the Wii 
 remote though they don't always sound so great. It can be sometimes muffled and distorted.
  
  Overall, Super Paper Mario is a great addition to the series, and one of the better games on 
 the Wii. If you havent purchased this game, I seriously recommend you do, or at least rent it 
 for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Its been a while since I could say I played a game strictly because it was fun. Usually the games 
 I play are interesting or pose some kind of challenge for me. Super Paper Mario falls into the 
 fun category. The story is ok, the dialogue is just plain goofy at times but the gameplay is so 
 simple and intuitive that it made SPM enjoyable to play.
  
  Being a RPGish game like SPM is, there is a lot of dialogue and story going on as you progress 
 through the worlds. The story deals with a man scorned and his plot to destroy the worlds that 
 ruined his life, and its up to Mario and a small party to stop him. This adventure takes Mario 
 and party through about ten or so different environments and across the paths of dozens of NPCs. 
 I was hoping the dialogue would be more like Rockos Modern Life or Ren and Stimpy, you know, innuendo 
 aimed at the older crowd, but thats not the case in SPM. The rating on the box says E for Everyone 
 and that pretty much sums it up. It can be cute and a little funny, but for the most part, its 
 immature humor that is aimed at children.
  
  As for gameplay, where do I start? Super Paper Mario takes almost all of the things that made Nintendo 
 famous and puts them in a complete package; creative boss battles, lovable characters, great platforming 
 elements, interesting puzzles and the perfect amount of innovation. The game starts of as a 2D 
 side scroller but soon afterwards you learn the ability to turn the world into 3D and after that, 
 the new abilities pile on. Whether its the natural skills of your party members, useable items 
 or the various abilities of the Pixls, when all is said and done in SPM, youll have an amazing 
 array of ways to dispatch foes and get through the game. Only one party character can be chosen 
 at a time, same applies to the Pixls (except for Tippi who always stays active) but fortunately 
 characters and pixls can be swapped out in a flash to deal with any situation that may arise. This 
 is how the game progresses and it has great pacing throughout most of the game. I did get a little 
 weary at the end trying to remember which puzzle needed what pixl and where exactly was the puzzle 
 I ran across 12 levels ago. Even though I never did journey back to find some of those places I 
 came across, its good to know that if I have a bit of time, I can always go back and explore with 
 my new found abilities.
  
  While not a Wii remote intensive game, SPM does a great job of using the remote once in a while. 
 By pointing at the screen, Tippi often offers useful advice, and shaking of the remote is often 
 used to dislodge your character from ice or to wake them up. The various power-ups also make use 
 of the remote. While not as Wii-mote intensive as some may wish, I think it was just the right 
 amount for a gamer getting accustomed to the system.
  
  Dealing with foes is not always as simple as jumping on their heads, some can only be dispatched 
 with bombs, others need the whack of a hammer or fire breath. There are over 200 enemies in SPM 
 and for the most part, they are either all original or familiar faces returning, only in the later 
 levels are the skins used over again.
  
  Super Paper Mario is a very fluid and well animated game. The world seamlessly transforms from 
 2D to 3D and back again. Characters and creatures come in all shapes and sizes, some are cut outs 
 of cartoon quality and others have the perfect hint of being three dimensional. While I doubt the 
 graphics tax the Wii, they really dont need to as they are perfect for what they mean to do. No 
 fog, no slowdown, no pop up and no bad camera angles, just perfect gaming.
  
  Sounds effects are your typical Mario brother fare and sounds just like I remembered them but the 
 music is where the sound department kicks it up a notch. With all brand new music and remixed versions 
 of old songs, SPM is a trip down memory lane and a totally new experience all in one.
  
  Super Paper Mario is my first return trip to the Mario universe since the Nintendo 64 days and 
 ended up being the perfect game to return to. A proper mix of platforming, puzzle solving, a dash 
 of role playing and a little bit of innovative remote use that showcases the Wiis strong points 
 off amazingly well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princess_peachy
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 21, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Game play on Super Paper Mario was a breath of fresh air. The concept of switching from 2D-3D is 
 brilliant! Also, getting to play as some of your favorite Mario characters isnt bad either. This 
 game is a nice sequel to the previous editions on Nintendos other platforms. The storyline adds 
 depth and color making it not just fun to play but actually challenging at times. Like many games 
 there are a few cons. I feel the end boss may have been far too easy to beat compared to some of 
 the side quests. Also, the graphics when switching to 3D tends to be a little barren when compared 
 to its 2D glory. Even though I found some small things I didn't like the pros far outweigh the 
 cons. If youre looking for a fun RPG with unique twists then this game is for you! Thank you Nintendo 
 for making this game. I cant wait to see what is in store for the next Super Paper Mario. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjlthecreator5
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2007 4:24 am PT
Review:  The game looks and feels incredible. The gamed definitely has a very stylized look that isnt afraid 
 to poke fun at itself (what is this 2 button thing?  Oh, its nothing but someone knows what 
 it means) . The Wii remote works very well with this game with the only motion controls being pointing 
 at the TV to discover and shaking the remote to wake you up. The menus and general controls are 
 also pretty clear and quick to pick up. All in all, the controls and menu were all nicely done. 
 All the characters in Super Paper Mario look amazing. Each character moves and has a wonderful 
 set of emotion. These may only be 2D characters that look like something you might see in a flash 
 movie, but that doesnt stop them from looking amazing. Each character and enemy in this game are 
 all very well done and it is a great joy to watch them move and make their emotions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzyking
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 20, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is an great, but not excellent game. The gameplay is kinda repetative because 
 you just jump and use the pixls and most of them are kinda useless. I, personally, dont like the 
 Chapter style gameplay, and the free roaming like The Thousand Year Old Door. This game is very 
 funny, but i still like The Thousand Year Old Door better. The bosses are WAY TOO easy. The last 
 boss was so easy, i didn't even use a Hp heal. The graphics are clear and colorful and the music 
 is OK. If i were u, i would get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arb92
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 20, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  The good parts of this game is the graphics still have that feel of the old paper mario franchise. 
 There are a lot of new colorful environments to explore and a lot of new characters to meet on 
 the adventure. You also get to play as mario, peach, bowser, and luigi, which is really cool because 
 you never really get to play as peach, bowser, or luigi in most mario games. The new flip to 3-d 
 part was neat and unique to add to a game like this. There are many side-quests to enjoy completing, 
 like completing the recipe list, beating both pit of a 100 trials, get a couple of pixls you may 
 have missed, and get all the cards with people and enemies on them. There is a lot of humor in 
 this game, which makes this kind of franchise a lot better. The hidden items that you find in 3-d 
 are really helpful during this game and help you get through the story. The bad parts of this game 
 is that you don't go into battle like you used to in the old paper mario games. After you get most 
 of the pixls and most of the other people (peach, bowser, and luigi) , there is too much switching 
 out at a time, you could be using peach to hover, then you may have to switch back to mario, then 
 you switch to him, you may have to switch a pixl. I think the item shops are trying to rip you 
 off, they charge a item that only heals you by 10 h. p for 30 coins, and you can only hold up to 
 10 items, which stinks. The ending isn't really that good i think. The chapters i think go by a 
 little too fast, which could make the game short. But overall, the game is really good for fans 
 of the paper mario series, and for people who just like mario games period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZF
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Well Super Paper Mario is Fun just to easy it took me idk bout 15 hrs to complete it's still is 
 a good game. Also I like the battle idea a little more. It's more like Super Mario Bros. Then the 
 other paper mario's i don't really like the idea of stopping every time you run into an enemy. 
 It's more of an Action game than a RPG. Which I like because Action is my favorite type. Anyway 
 Great game few minor flaws SPM is a great game for all ages and i know you will really like it 
 as much as i did. See ya LOZF 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harleyrulesall
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 19, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  The original paper mario was a rpg. The second paper mario was a rpg. The third paper mario is 
 a platformer? Yep you heard right this game is a platformer. So it must not have anything in common 
 with it's predecessors, right?
  
  Wrong. Paper does have something in common with it's predecessors. It's unique. That unique this 
 is that you can go from 2d side scrolling to 3d platforming. It may seem pretty corny but it isn't. 
 It actually made for some really fun levels. Like for example, you can walk on a hill in the background 
 when you can't jump far enough.
  
  Another cool thing is the music. The music in the first level is classic mario with a twist. And 
 in world 2-1 i found myself humming along.
  
  In short this is a game which no wii owner should miss out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathanlol
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is an all around fun game. It doesn't have amazing graphics or sound. It's just 
 a fun game. The cartoon appearance appealed to me, personally. I enjoyed the boss battles, but 
 some were too easy. The many pixls and the ability to play as more than just Mario was a nice addition 
 to the game. At some points the game was too easy or too hard. From my perspective, the difficulty 
 kept changing throughout the game. 3-D mode was fun, although the camera was a bit radical in 3-D 
 mode. I found the game a little short. It was easily beatable within a week of purchase. Overall, 
 Super Paper Mario is a downright fun game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElSatanno
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario marks the first visit from everyones favorite plumber on Nintendos crazy new 
 console. Intelligent Systems, the in-house developer responsible for the previous Paper Mario on 
 GameCube, have retooled their formula and brought Mario closer to his platform roots without totally 
 sacrificing the RPG element. The action is very much like a classic side-scroller, but Mario and 
 friends have stats, abilities and items like an RPG. With an entertaining storyline, playful action, 
 and clever use of the Wii remote, this game provides a whole lot of fun worthy of carrying Nintendos 
 flagship character. From top to bottom, Super Paper Mario is a great game for platform and RPG 
 fans alike.
  
  It's rather unfortunate that the exposition at the beginning of the game starts things off on the 
 wrong foot. Don't expect to get started immediately after turning the game on. Youre forced to 
 sit through about 20 minutes worth of text before you can even get your hands on Mario, and then 
 about another 10 before you can do anything remotely interesting. In a strange way it's a good 
 thing since it'll prepare you for the rather lengthy dialogues throughout the game. In fact, Super 
 Paper Mario is wordier than any other Mario game, with lots to read between major story points.
 
  
  So what does all this reading at the beginning reveal? Well, Princess Peach has once again been 
 kidnapped, and Mario and Luigi make the intuitive leap that King Bowser is at his old tricks again. 
 Upon reaching the castle, they find that Bowser was in fact plotting just that, but hadnt yet 
 enacted his plan, and was as startled as they were. Enter the horrible Count Bleck, a villain with 
 the amusing habit of punctuating his statements with references to himself. It seems he wants to 
 use the Dark Prognosticus, a book of sinister prophecy, to create a Chaos Heart, an item capable 
 of destroying every world in existence. (Gasp!) The Chaos Heart can be created by marrying Bowser 
 to Peach, which he summarily does, after kidnapping not only the Koopa King and his minions, but 
 also Luigi, leaving Mario by himself. Its up to our plumbing pal to rescue his friends, retrieve 
 the seven Pure Hearts with the power to counter the Chaos Heart, and stop Count Blecks dastardly 
 scheme.
  
  Marios first companion on this journey is Tippi, a tiny buttefly-shaped character called a pixl. 
 By pointing the Wii remote at the screen, Tippi gives advice and information about the game world 
 and also reveals invisible objects. Youll find numerous other pixls throughout your journey, and 
 each one grants Mario a new ability which youll invariably need to use to complete the stage in 
 which you found it. All through the game, youll rely heavily on your pixls to overcome various 
 obstacles, evade enemies, and find secrets.
  
  At first glance, the game looks like an old-school side-scrolling platformer. However in the very 
 first stage, youll gain the ability to flip Mario from 2D to 3D. This is probably the single most 
 interesting and useful mechanic in Super Paper Mario. Flipping switches your perspective to a third-person 
 viewpoint and usually drastically changes the landscape. What looks like background art in 2D becomes 
 a bridge, pipes too tall to jump over can be walked around, and paths leading into what used to 
 be the foreground appear. If you see a line of coins or blocks in 2D, a quick flip into 3D often 
 reveals numerous more rows of the same. Mario cant stay in 3D forever, though, and will take damage 
 for staying too long. While this does dissuade running through an entire stage in 3D, the damage 
 is minor and taking a hit refills your 3D-meter. Judging distances and position in 3D is somewhat 
 awkward, though, so you probably wont want to anyway. Another hitch with 3D is the perspective 
 always points towards what was right in 2D, so moving towards the screen always results in a blind 
 run into whatever may lay aheador behindwhatever.
  
  All this running around is done with the Wii remote held sideways like a standard controller. But 
 theres plenty of ways that the game makes use of the unique structure of the remote. Besides pointing 
 at the screen to use Tippis abilities, some items require you to circle an icon on the screen 
 to increase their effectiveness, an idea borrowed from the first Paper Mario. Other items have 
 you tilting or shaking the controller. Also, after stomping on an enemy, you can shake the controller 
 about to score extra experience points. However the somewhat hidden arcade mini-games make the 
 most fun use of the remote. The Tilt Island game has you tilt the remote left and right (go figure) 
 to move Mario instead of controlling him directly, for example.
  There are eight different worlds to travel through on your quest for the seven Pure Hearts. The 
 art style is quite reminiscent of the styling of Super Mario World for the SNES, with lots of bright 
 cel-shaded colors and rounded shapes filling the scenery. In contrast to this lush environment, 
 flipping to 3D eliminates most of the eye candy, leaving either side of the screen almost completely 
 blank. Over 200 varieties of enemies, friends, and boss characters are present to populate these 
 worlds, and they all share the same cartoon stylings first seen in Paper Mario.
  
  Another nod toward the RPG side of the game are the side quests you can undertake. In Super Paper 
 Mario, trading cards depicting your enemies and friends are scattered everywhere, and there are 
 a couple hundred of them. Theyre not just for show either, as holding one or more of any given 
 enemy will multiply the damage you do to them with each attack. Still want more to collect? Additionally, 
 just as in the original Paper Mario, most items can be taken to a chef to cook up into new and 
 improved items. Since the cooked item is usually better than the original, its worth it to drop 
 by every so often. Completionists will of course want to fry up all of the roughly 70 recipes in 
 the game. There are also about 50 treasure maps to be found which lead to yet more riches.
  
  Super Paper Mario is a whimsical sort of journey, and the music joined to the tale fits perfectly. 
 Each piece of background music has melodies which underscore the theme of the world, while hidden 
 areas play revisions of classic Mario theme songs. Likewise, classic Mario sound effects go along 
 with all the stomping and jumping. Certain pick-ups and a special pixl will even bring back effects 
 from the original NES Super Mario Bros. Although Super Paper Mario is neither the next step for 
 the mustachioed hero nor a complete return to roots, what it is is a fun romp featuring new and 
 old faces. The main quest provides plenty of entertainment, and theres lots on the side to keep 
 you busy during and afterwards. Dont hesitate to pick this game up by any means. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rankoreAE
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 18, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  This game is everything you want in a Mario plat former. It successfully blends the traditional 
 Mario platforming with some of the well known Paper Mario RPG elements. Its about a 60/40 split 
 leaning heavily on the platforming and less on the RPG aspects of the previous titles. The colorful 
 graphics are basic but really beautiful at the same time, it is a very artistic look to it and 
 the added 3D elements really give the game a push in the originality department. The only problem 
 i seem to have with the game is the MASSIVE amounts of text you have to read, thankfully its very 
 funny and entertaining so you don't notice it as much after a bit. But to keep the review short 
 and sweet the game is excellent and a must buy for anyone who likes Mario and has a Wii its just 
 a brilliantly made game. Its pretty long and worth the 50 dollar price tag, its no Zelda by any 
 means but it is definitely worth your time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xarcand
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 18, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  I walked into the store the other day and Scanned through the wii game isle, past the Sonic games, 
 Big brain academy, and a Spongebob game, somthing catches my eye.. a red hat and blue overalls 
 and that familiar mustache, Super Paper Mario! as i looked and read the back I thought what the 
 heck.. i'll get it, i played through the first two games, but they were kind of similar in story, 
 i ll give it a chance so i ring it up on the register and bring it home. I open it up and Pop the 
 disc into the Wii.. i go through the begining cut scene and straight into the game. The first thing 
 i noticed, there was a very big change in gameplay i thought was interesting it plays like an original 
 mario game with the levels to match, you'll go through the game searching for the 7 pure hearts 
 (why is it always 7? its like the magic number) collecting character cards. The humor of this game 
 like all the others is awesome, you'll also meet of coarse the original mario cast members. But 
 the fighting system, it was Fun, but not as addicting as the Rpg styled battle system in the other 
 two games, which poses the biggest question for me, does the battle system make the whole game? 
 in some ways yes and in others no, on the positive side you won't be running into constant battle 
 screens making you take a little while longer then you want, on the negative side this battle systems 
 makes the bosses a whole lot easier, and the chapters shorter. I found the sound great, the game 
 mixes in those original mario sound effects we all know and love with the newer ones. the graphics 
 are cartoonish and interesting. the puzzles in the game will cause you to constantly flip to the 
 3d dimension and switch between the main characters. The 50$ Price tag right now i think is almost 
 about right. If you are a fan of this little plumber this game is a buy or a Defininent rent. 8.4 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rogermao
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 18, 2007 1:25 am PT
Review:  Ahh, mario, one of nintendo's, excuse me, gaming's most favorite characters. But what happens when 
 you squash him into a 2d body? I'll tell you what, a whole new way of playing the game. FLipping 
 is one of the major concepts of the game. You cna flip from 2d to 3d for a short amount of time. 
 This allows you to find new things, or discover new paths, that you could never see in 2d. This 
 gives the gmae even more depth, as you can combine logic and flipping, to solve the game's mysteries.
 
  
  The pixies, boomer, thoreau, and pixl, also help you along. Pixl-can see hidden doors, tells you 
 more about an object, and gives you clues.
  Boomer- Wat do you think? he blows up stuff :)
  Throreau-grabs and throws stuff
  
  All this, adds more to the gmae, giving you a new experience, 
 of Mario.
  The bottom line is, it's a great game, that should satisfy most gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto703
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 17, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  This is another great adventure by our friends Nintendo. The gameplay has little gestures but sometimes 
 the somple way is the best way. The way you hold the controller gives it a classic Mario feel. 
 I must say that this game gets gameplay completely down pack. I could go on and on about how great 
 the gameplay is but I will get to other stuff now. The graphics are simple but since it is paper 
 I will not count that. The sound is great even though not as good as the music for Super Mario 
 Bros. (just kidding) he game is not as long as you will want it to be but you will have a great 
 time. This is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joespimpin
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 16, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Artistic style graphics, quick response controls
  
  THE BAD: No meat to the game, lack of depth, weak 2D to 3D mechanics, one time play through at 
 best. Only flip with Mario.
  
  THE UGLY: Gimmicky Wii controls, unimaginative storyline.
  
  FOR PARENTS: Super Paper Mario features dialog and gameplay suitable for all ages. Some minor 
 cartoon violence. Game features extensive reading so this game isn't really suitable for really 
 young children.
  
  Super Paper Mario was one of my most anticipated games sense it was announced for the Gamecube 
 some time ago. It looked really slick and it was a Paper Mario game, how could that go wrong? Somehow 
 and I think it took a lot of work to do it, it did go wrong. This Wii port not only doesn't sport 
 updates in graphics and controls to match its new found hardware. This is one port you will walk 
 away scratching your head, why wasn't this a Gamecube game again?
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Super Paper Mario features 4 playable characters that come along during the course of the game. 
 The cast is Mario, Luigi, Princess Toadstool and Bowser. Mario is your all around guy that you 
 will use most, I'll get to that later. His main power is the flip to 3D, Luigi can jump really 
 high, the princess can you her parasol to glide across larger pits and Bowser can breathe fire. 
 So for it sounds cool right? I would agree so far myself, the problem was in the presentation of 
 the major draw of the game the 2D/3D flip.
  
  Mario is the only one who can do this, meaning you are always going back to him no matter how much 
 you want to use the other characters. This was a bad design decision that basically broke the game. 
 Because of this all the varied game play possibilities that you could have with these characters 
 you can't perform, because the game really leans on the flip mechanic for everything from finding 
 items, solving puzzles to getting around on the different levels. So you are flipping all the time. 
 If this was a 6 hour game, it wouldn't be so bad, but plan on clocking in around 20 hours for a 
 play through makes any player just use Mario and switch to a different character only in the few 
 places that they need to be used.
  
  The battle system is all real time and you fight as you would if you were playing a Mario 2D side 
 scroller. You can use items which aren't very impressive or very needed. By the time I was about 
 1/4 way into the game I figured out I only needed healing items to progress to the story.
  
  The other mechanic that really breaks the game does so by making it uninteresting. That is 
 the 2D side scrolling. It's just not fun. Anyone who has ever played a 2D Mario Adventure knows 
 there is absolutely no depth in platforming for this title. None of the charm of those games makes 
 its way into this title. By the time you reach the fifth world you are pretty much used to going 
 through decorated rooms rather than a world.
  
  The last mechanic that adds to game play is the pixl's. These little creatures allow Mario and 
 crew to have a variety of moves from hovering over spikes, to using a hammer, to using a bomb. 
 The big missed opportunity is the time it takes for each pixl to function and the fact you can 
 only use one action pixl at a time. You do have for about 90% of the game a pixl that gives you 
 information flying around but that can never be switched out. Because of this pixl usage is really 
 shallow. It doesn't help that they made what each pixl does so cookie cutter that you see bricks 
 stacked up and you know bomb it, you see a crack and you know to flatten Mario to go through, there 
 is really no imagination that went into this system outside of the power s themselves. At least 
 all characters can use them unlike the flipping mechanic.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  If it was a Gamecube title or a Wii launch title I would say the graphics are great. But considering 
 it came out soo much later and is from Nintendo themselves. The graphics are disappointing.
  
  Early on you figure out why Paper Mario games are 2D, its because 3D is a very lonely place. 
 Thats right, when you flip there is very little to see. There is no major changes to the way the 
 environment looks. Almost nothing looks 3D, its pretty much vacant. This makes flipping to 3D a 
 chore more than anything else. Nintendo really missed a great opportunity to woo the audience with 
 the different potentials this kind of mechanic can do.
  
  The visuals don't even push the Gamecube let alone the Wii and detail is little to non existent. 
 CONTROLS (Tie into Value Rating)
  
  This isn't a Wii game. There are only tacked on gimmicky Wii controls for this title. It only uses 
 the Wii Remote turned sideways. There are only two major mechanics that use the Wii Remote motion 
 controls. The first is pointing it at the screen kind of like a flashlight to learn about different 
 characters or items that are highlighted. The other is to twist and shake the remote after jumping 
 on an enemy to perform a style move which gives you more score. Some items use the motion controls, 
 but its so lame I won't even bother writing about it. SOUND
  
  The sound is really good for the game although after a while of listening to flipside towm music 
 you want to hit the mute button, but the sounds are all clear and variant for different moves you 
 do in the game.
  
  The big miss for sound is no voice acting, which there is really no excuse for. Even if its only 
 the NPC's that actually speak that would be fine, but with this much dialog it really needed voice 
 acting.
  
  VALUE:
  
  This game is a one time play through. The story is uninteresting and lacks the desire to learn 
 what happens next like other RPG's have mastered. The platforming action is basic and under developed, 
 the 2D/3D mechanic is really not used in creative ways and hinders the use of other characters. 
 This is a rental at best.
  
  TILT:
  
  With Nintendo games comes a high expectation for quality and Super Paper Mario doesn't deliver. 
 With Nintendo's push towards catching what they call non gamers and casual gamers its obvious this 
 game has been toned down in difficulty and depth in order to make it more accessible. That is fine 
 for a game like WiiSports but for a title this long, you really need mechanics that grow and branch 
 out, not mechanics that just drop off for a while and come back stale and used. Nintendo missed 
 lots of opportunities with this game and it has nothing going for it other than the title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13and0
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 16, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  Minor errors, but an otherwise good grade for this paper 
  Nintendo has thrown out many a memorable character since its debut. Characters such as Link, Samus, 
 Pikachu, Donkey Kong, and Fox McCloud have captured many gamers' attention throughout the generations. 
 But no character even comes close to the aura of the one and only Mario. He is the first character 
 that comes to mind whenever I think of the company. 20 plus years in the business, and Mario is 
 still going strong. Now, he makes his debut on the Nintendo Wii, in his paper thin form. Super 
 Paper Mario mixes classic Mario games with the RPG element of the previous Paper Marios to get 
 a game that, while not groundbreaking, is still a good amount of fun.
  
  The story for Paper Mario, as you'd expect, isn't exactly a strong RPG storyline, as Peach is kidnapped 
 AGAIN. Fortunately, it's not by Bowser this time, so the game gets credit for that. This time, 
 Mario's nemesis is Count Bleck, a strange creature who speaks in 2nd person 99% of the time. He 
 wishes to end all worlds by using the Chaos Heart from a prophecy in a book known as the Dark Prognosticus. 
 Bleck kidnaps Peach AND Bowser and forces them to marry in order to send the prophecy into action 
 (yeah... weird) . However, a book known as the Light Prognosticus speaks of a man in red with blue 
 overalls who can save the day. Gee, who could that be? Along the way, Mario will find Peach and 
 Bowser, and it's up to them to stop Bleck and save all of the worlds from destruction.
  
  As you may expect from Mario, the game is not very serious at all. There's quite a bit of humor 
 in this game, as the characters seem to know they're in a video game (instead of saying that someone 
 dies, they say that their game is over ) . In addition, the characters break the 4th wall sometimes, 
 referring to you as a greater power when control functions are displayed. There's a lot of light-hearted, 
 corny jokes in this game, but they're still good for a chuckle or two.
  
  As you may expect, the game has paper thin artwork. All the characters are flat, similar to... well... paper. 
 If you liked the earlier Paper Marios, this won't be a problem. I do however wish the music was 
 better. You'll hear some classic Mario tunes here and there, but it doesn't happen very often and 
 what is there is kinda boring. The quality isn't exactly top notch either.
  
  The game itself plays as if you take the old 2-D Mario games and the Paper Mario games for the 
 64 and Gamecube and mix them together. The game has RPG elements such as hit points and levels, 
 but the game plays similar to a platformer. The extra feature that Super Paper Mario hypes is the 
 ability to go 3-D. With just a simple press of the A button, Mario will turn and you'll see the 
 area in 3-D. This allows you to see pathways that are otherwise invisible, hidden items and enemies, 
 and secrets that don't appear in the 2-D realm. It's a decent feature, but only Mario can use it, 
 and there's a limit to how long you can use it at one time. Take too long, and Mario will take 
 some damage. Considering there are many parts in the game that force you to go 3-D, this feature 
 is very annoying, as you'll have to go back to 2-D for a second to recover. Other times when you 
 go 3-D, you won't be on the platform, and you have to quickly jump onto the platform, or you might 
 not see anything right away.
  
  You'll be able to play as Peach and Bowser in this game, and both of them have their own special 
 abilities. Peach can use her parasol to get over large gaps, and Bowser can breath fire. In addition 
 to these partners, you have a helpful little butterfly named Tippi, who can help you see enemy 
 weaknesses, give you hints on what to do, and even reveal secret areas. You'll also have special 
 little helpers known as Pixls that have special abilities to allow you to proceed. One of them 
 gives you a ground pound move, while another turns you sideways, and makes you invisible while 
 standing still. The one problem that I have is that you'll be constantly going into the menus changing 
 characters and Pixls. This can slow down the game considerably, especially if you get stuck. Other 
 than that, the way each Pixl is used in the game is executed pretty well. You won't find yourself 
 using a Pixl one or two times, then never touching it again.
  
  If you're looking for innovative ways to use the Wii Remote... look elsewhere. Super Paper Mario 
 uses the Wii remote as if it was an NES controller. The controls are simple, 2 jumps, 1 activates 
 Pixl abilities, hitting both activates the menu. By turning the Wii remote towards the screen like 
 a remote, you can use Tippi to find those weaknesses, get a hint, or find secret areas. You won't 
 move the controller much outside of healing status ailments, using stylish moves to level up, or 
 using attack items. Regardless, the control is great. It's exactly what you'd expect from a Mario 
 game.
  
  Super Paper Mario is clearly made for children, because it is very easy. Rarely will you ever feel 
 threatened by any enemies in the game, and there's plenty of healing items should you be. The only 
 difficulty is with the exploration. Too often I found myself thinking I found the right way, only 
 to find that the route led to a coin room or something. Once you find out where you are going, 
 the game is easy.
  
  Despite all this, Super Paper Mario is still a lot of fun. It's not as much of a chore as one would 
 believe going from 2-D to 3-D, and finding these areas is actually kind of cool. It's not Twilight 
 Princess, but it's still a decent title that I'd say is worth a purchase. Mario's still got it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdechert
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 16, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  This is actually a fun game, but getting to it is the problem. The programmers seemed to have spent 
 as much time writing dialog as writing code. OMG! I've never had to hack through so much speech 
 just to get to play a game before. When I first started, it took 15 or 20 minutes before I ever 
 got to control Mario. Once I got control, though, the game got fun. Of course, there are those 
 wordy interludes with Count Blek and stuff. Who cares? I want to play! The 2D/3D concept is brilliant 
 and is done very well. My kids love it, and I find it intriguing. I'm a Super Mario fan and this 
 game meets my expectations. I'd recommend it, but keep hitting the 2 button to get through all 
 the talking! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariofan22
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 15, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Paper Mario is a classic. Its sequel is a classic. So, knowing this, it's pretty easy to be disappointed 
 when something still comes out great - just a bit shorter than its predecessors.
  
  The game uses an interesting 2D/3D perspective throughout, and it's what makes the game so exciting. 
 However, I quickly figured out that it was much easier fighting enemies in 2D - using the control 
 pad in a 3D mode was often hard to do to attack enemies.
  
  What was most surprising, was the fact that the storyline still was excellent. I won't reveal the 
 details, but it takes some turns that I personally didn't expect.
  
  The idea of using 'Pixls' for game play was actually quite entertaining. They each have their own 
 special abilities - though they weren't as enjoyable as your partners in games past, they still 
 were quite useful. Replacing the role of your talking partners is Tippi, the thrilling Pixl, who 
 sort of acts like Navi throughout the game. Unlike Navi, however, she normally only speaks when 
 either you ask her to, or at the beginning of a level - further, she plays an important role in 
 the story.
  
  The sound is the big negative in this game - it brings down the game substantially. I eventually 
 got used to the talk sound (when you 'get used' to a sound, it's never good) , but it sounds... 
 terrible. It's indescribable until you play.
  
  Still, if you own a Wii, it's a title worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redchina
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 15, 2007 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is a excellent achievement. It's fun, clever, unique, and completely insane. 
 It will surprise and delight you more and more as you play.
  
  The gameplay is not as deep as previous Paper Mario games, but it basically takes the turn-based 
 gameplay in previous games and instead makes it all real time. Along the way, he will be joined 
 by several familiar companions to aid him on his adventure. Each of Mario's partners have different 
 special abilities that come in handy for puzzles and combat.
  
  Mario has the ability to flip his world from 2D to 3D, and this mechanic is very interesting. It's 
 mostly used for solving the many clever puzzles in the game, as well as finding hidden paths and 
 secret items. It's fun, but only Mario can use this ability. It would've been better if all of 
 his partners could use this power as well.
  
  Mario will also be joined by these weird and funny creatures called Pixls. You will find a lot 
 of these throughout the game, and each one gives Mario and his partners a different ability. For 
 instance, one Pixl lets Mario wack things with a hammer, and another will allow him to pick things 
 up and throw them. Pixls are used for solving puzzles and fighting baddies.
  
  So with the gameplay outta the way, here is the best part of SPM: THE STORY.
  
  The basic story: 
 Save the world from the forces of evil.
  
  Yeah, you think you've heard it before, but not like in SPM. I loved the story, and I give credit 
 to the excellent writing and dialogue in the game. Yes, there is a lot of it. But it's extremely 
 well written and it's all very funny.
  
  I don't want to ruin the story for you, but I can say that hardcore gamers will find a lot of funny 
 insider-jokes that only they would know.
  
  Bowser (he's a good guy!) , Peach, and Luigi are all back, and each character comes to life with 
 their own hilarious personalities. Bowser likes to look and sound tough, but often leaks signs 
 of softness. Peach is the sweet, caring no-nonsense princess. Luigi is the loyal brother and best 
 friend, but is a little slow sometimes.
  
  The story is excellent, and has a very moving conclusion. It's a love story.
  
  The graphics 
 are colorful and clean-looking. The art direction is a work of genius.
  
  The music is simply fantastic. The sound FX are decent. The game makes use of the Wii-remote speaker 
 sometimes, but I recommend muting the speaker, since the sound is just annoying.
  
  It will take about 20 hours to finish this adventure, without sidequests.
  
  Overall, Super 
 Paper Mario is a superb game that has something many games lack: a Heart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: link_623
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 15, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is the third installment in the Paper Mario series. Unlike the previous Paper 
 Mario titles, Intelligent Systems makes this game a platforming / RPG hybrid. Super Paper Mario 
 was originally a GameCube game announced late in its' life cycle. The game suddenly disappears 
 on the game radar and resurfaces as a Wii game.
  
  Like I said before, the gameplay hybrid elements are a perfect match and are very balanced and 
 you never have to rely on one of the elements too much during the game. These two elements keep 
 the gameplay nice and fresh.
  
  Most of the Mario games involve Peach getting kidnapped by Bowser etc, however in this game the 
 story is different. There is a new villain named Count Bleck and will destroy the world with his 
 chaos heart. Mario sets off to find the 8 pure hearts to defeat the chaos heart. During the adventure, 
 Peach, Luigi and even Bowser joins your team, each of them with a special ability useful in the 
 game. For example, Mario's ability is to flip between 2D and 3D which opens a whole new dimension 
 of possibilities. There are also fairy like creatures called Pixls which help you immensely during 
 the game. There are roughly 8 chapters in the game and will last you approximately 20 hours or 
 less on to complete the game depending on the player's skill level. Replay value is enchanted with 
 arcade games, hidden treasures, Pit of 100 trials and more to keep you busy after completing the 
 main story. However, if you're short on cash, I suggest a rental first.
  
  The artstyle in the game is amazing but the graphics nowhere pushes the Wii's graphical ability 
 due to being an originally a GameCube game. There is a cool retro feel to it along with the controller 
 held sideways like a NES controller. You use the control pad to move and 1 for a Pixl ability and 
 2 for jumping. The game is a pick-up and play. Despite all the , there are few minor flaws. One 
 mainly being that it isn't that difficult and completing the main story is simple and can be completed 
 easily with some degree. In conclusion, Super Paper Mario is an amazing game and should not be 
 missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silentkiller27
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 17, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  One of the best in the series, I have played all 3 paper mario games and although this isn't as 
 good as the first it is better then the second. When I played the second I was a bit dissapointed 
 that it wasn't as good as the first however Super Paper mario more than makes up for that dissapointment
 
  
  Story: *Gasp* a mario game that doesn't involve saving Peach? What Blasphemy is this? Yes Super 
 Paper Mario is one of few mario games where you don't have to rescue peach as a matter of fact 
 Peach is one of the playable characters in the game. The Story Begins at the Mario Bros. House 
 Luigi is bored of all the peace so he suggests that he and mario go visit peach, and just as there 
 leaving a toad comes and tells them peach got kidnapped and things went downhill from there
  
  Gameplay: Unlike the first two games this one doesn't have turn based combat, you kill the 
 enemys by jumping on them, hitting them with a hammer, blowing them up, thrwoing other enemys at 
 them, or setting them on fire, each enemy has a certain amount of health.
  
  Music: All that you'd come to expect from a mario game
  
  Overall Super Paper MArio was a great 
 game that will keep you busy foer a while. now one more thing even though it says 10-20 hours time 
 spent playing keep in mind I have yet to beat it and I haven't done everything that you can do. 
 So in reality it's probably a bit longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazabi
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jun 15, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  tis is my 1st time play nintendo console since snes... an 1st game i play is warioware. is quite 
 ok. but this game is totally boring... ut i finish it thou... its not good... the grph for this game 
 is just ok... but the game play is so..... boring. i feel so dispoented when i play dis game... but 
 i feel wierd dis game get high score... myb dis game is not type of game... u keep doing the same 
 thing each level until u fight the final boss. story line also quite boring... it is not about mario 
 at all. about a bad person name count blek or something like that with a flying butterfly love... so 
 boring 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PBRulez
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 15, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  What's always been a strong point in the Paper Mario series was that it was an RPG. Not just the 
 fighting and character upgrading aspects, but also the story and the in-between story areas where 
 you could walk around talking to people. That's where the majority of the game's quirks and fun 
 lay. Luckily, enough of that is maintained in this sequel to make it worth a buy, but in adding 
 elements of platforming to the game, they've had to take away from some of the better RPG qualities.
 
  
  The story of SPM is the same as it has been for the past few games: Evil dude tries to take over 
 the world, and Mario can only stop him by collecting stars. As usual, the drama and intensity heats 
 up towards the end of the game, and there are tons of fun and weird characters that you'll come 
 across along the road. There are several diverse and imaginative scenarios that save SPM from being 
 just some platformer (ie. changes in level structure, boss fights that don't play out like they 
 normally do, etc.)
  
  The game allows you to play as Mario, Peach, Bowser, and Luigi, along with a number of 'Pixl' friends 
 who serve as replacements to the party Mario has traveled with in previous games. This has its 
 upsides and downsides. While it's certainly fun to be able to play as different characters in different 
 situations (Bowser is always making some stupid comments, Peach is always being sought after by 
 some of the male characters, etc.) it's a bit of a pain in the rear to have to keep alternating 
 between characters AND Pixls. The heart of the predecessors has always been Mario, with Peach and 
 any others always being in the background and contributing to the story without taking away from 
 it. Frankly, it was more fun to just play as Mario.
  
  The platforming is fun by itself, forgetting the previous RPG aspects of the prequels. If you got 
 a kick out of the original Mario games, you'll definetly get a kick out of this and then some. 
 Flipping to 3D is a fresh concept, but can be annoying as only Mario can flip and you therefore 
 have to swap characters to do it. Flipping also has a time limit, which (like everything else in 
 this game) is both good and bad- its good because playing the entire game in 3D wouldn't be fun, 
 but its bad because it restricts exploring environments.
  
  The controls are nothing special. This could've been a Gamecube game, any actions that require 
 use of the Wii Remote are gimmicky. They don't take away from the game, but if SPM were on other 
 systems as well, there would be nothing that would drive you towards this game over any other control-wise.
 
  
  All in all, SPM is a fun game. The story and characters that make the series so fun are intact, 
 and the platforming can make certain levels very fun. In future sequels, though, I wish they wouldn't 
 try to fix something that wasn't broken and stick with the RPG style of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpiraUnited
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 15, 2007 12:13 am PT
Review:  As soon as I heard about Super Paper Mario, I was itching to get my hands on it. We were all still 
 stuck in a post-launch Wii drought, and I needed something to really bite into. School exams have 
 since taken priority, but today I got the chance to sit down and finish it.
  
  When I first saw videos of the flipping mechanic, I was amazed, and still am to this day. I feel 
 the gameplay is well balanced between platforming and role-playing, and remains unspoiled by the 
 addition of new features. I would hate to call the gameplay simplistic, because it's far from it. 
 Minimalist is the best way to describe it. There's no holding a button to run like in previous 
 2-D games, which I find helps to streamline the game with the whole paper motif (although some 
 would probably disagree) . It's pretty simple stuff for much of the game, but the flipping mechanic 
 and puzzles keep the difficulty high enough that you'll have to think about what to do next, just 
 not very hard. On the downside, the camera can sometimes be a little awkward when flipping, and 
 sometimes the pacing can be dreadfully slow. I absolutely love the graphics in this game. I'm a 
 big fan of retro games, so the world of Chapter 3 (The Bitlands) was right up my alley. The worlds 
 aren't too complex, but they all bear their own charm. I really just suggest you take a look at 
 videos or screenshots to decide if you like the visual style (or play the older Paper Mario games) . 
 As much as I love them though, these visuals are hardly top-notch. I'm not trying to compare to 
 the 2 other next-gen consoles (I don't own either of them) , but there are a few rough patches. 
 However, because they appeal to me so much, I just couldn't let the Graphics section drop below 
 an 8.
  
  The sound - charming, but repetitive. 'Nuff said.
  
  This is a very fun game, but it's not a particularly long one. Personally, it's right for me, but 
 don't count on this Platformer-RPG to provide you with 80 hours of gameplay. Most people say around 
 20, but I think that's the upper limit. My final time was around 16 hours, and I wasn't speeding 
 through. I took my time to look around and enjoy the world (which I don't usually do) , but there's 
 no doubt you could finish it in a weekend if you had nothing else to do. It's certainly not going 
 to give you the kind of replay value that something like WarioWare would (although there is some) , 
 but I doubt that most Wii owners are looking for an 80 hour game at the moment. I don't mean to 
 generalize, but whenever I play open-ended or MMO-RPGs, it's not uncommon for me to log well over 
 500 hours. I just don't sit down on my couch with the Wii expecting that. If you're looking for 
 a good single-player Wii game, there's not all that much out there anyway, so I feel it's worth 
 my $60 (CDN) .
  
  Here's the bottom line - Don't buy this game if you hate the art style and it'll get in the way 
 of you having fun. Don't buy this game if you want an RPG as long as a Final Fantasy or Tales game 
 with more than 20 hours of gameplay. Most importantly, don't buy this game if you're unwilling 
 to think about puzzles involving your surroundings (and they're really not that hard) . If none 
 of these 3 apply to you, I strongly urge you to BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostadv
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 27, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  First off, I'll say what's good about the game. The presentation and graphics are very nice, looking 
 a lot like a flash cartoon of sorts with a nice budget. The controls are pretty easy too, so someone 
 first playing the game shouldn't take too long to understand the controls and really start getting 
 into it. Has a nice sense of humor too.
  
  Now with the cons. First, the game is too easy. Not once did I die, and I rarely had to use anything 
 to bring up my health. Because of this, most of the items you get are worthless. Another con is 
 the story. It's not bad, but it doesn't take long before you can see how the plot will play out. 
 &amp; lastly, is the sound. Once again, it's not bad but you know they could've done better.
  
  If you're a person just getting into games, give this game a rental. You'll probably have fun 
 with this. But if you're expecting a game with challenge and the sense that you really accomplished 
 something, look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malachi_27
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 30, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard that this new Paper Mario game was coming out, I was like: Wow, that is so awesome, 
 It's about time they came out with a new one! I wasn't happy that they said it was coming to the 
 Gamecube and then switch it to the Wii. But, I just said I'd get it for the Wii. I then later heard 
 that it wasn't going to be an RPG... NO! I was in love with RPG's ever since the days of Chrono 
 Trigger and Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars. But Paper Mario is the game that REALLY 
 made me like get into RPG's. It may not have been better than SMRPG, but it was addicting.
  
  I'm about to run out of room, so I will skip creating separate paragraphs and just make it 
 one BIG paragraph. Graphics are great; slightly better than the Gamecube's TTYD game. Gameplay 
 is very responsive -- although it is STILL not an RPG -- The only problem is that since you have to 
 hold the remote sideways, it isn't very comfortable. Sound, I have no problem with. But, the soundtrack 
 isn't as good memorable as the other games. Value is good, after all it is a Paper Mario game, 
 and they usually last AT LEAST 30 hours.
  I apologize for the big reading you may do. But if you're like me, if you see a lot of reading 
 without separate paragraphs, you're going to move on to the next review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matrix8909
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 12, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Mario entered the RPG world in the mid 90s on the SNES for Super Mario RPG, now 10 years later, 
 he can't stop. Even though Super Paper Mario has gone away from the traditional RPG game play that 
 the series is know for, and returns instead to Mario's roots from the NES days.
  
  There are 8 worlds, 8 pure hearts, and 4 parts per world. It's just as if we're back in 1985 playing 
 the original 1-1 from Super Mario Bros. The game itself is well put together, sure there is a lot 
 of text, especially for a Mario game, but the story/plot is well put together.
  
  This is a must for all Wii owners. Since we are getting Mario Galaxy by the end of 2007, this is 
 a perfect game to hold over any gamer till then.
  
  Final Word: This game doesn't need a lot of words to describe it. It's a must own, no doubt about 
 it. The RPG elements are there, with a classic platform twist and it never gets old with hours 
 of game play and tons of side-quests. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omnedroid11
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 12, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  Starting off with gameplay, they could have used the Wii Remote's special features for so much 
 more! All it's for is using your main helper character and some items. Speaking of helper characters, 
 luckily, this one is quite shy for most of the game, and actually shuts up! Oh my God! As for the 
 other helper characters, they actually have a use for later on after the point in the game that 
 you get them!
  
  Moving on to graphics, this game really does look like paper, or atleast cardboard. They've found 
 some ways to make some 3-D enemies by simulating a folded box or origami of sorts. The colors are 
 very beautiful (sorry emos!) yet not blinding.
  
  The sound is nice. They've remixed many songs from the classics. According to GameSpot, I'm hella 
 oldschool, so I know what I'm talking about.
  
  This game is valued just like any other Wii game. Not exceeding $60, but only $59.99! Wow! &gt;_&gt;
 
  
  I was influenced to buy this from Gamespot and users, and I was influenced right! Get this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicos40
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 12, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  I Was a huge fan of the paper mario series until this title... I found the puzzles uninspired, 
 and that the wiimote had been under utilized. I was also really sad they they removed the turn 
 based battles between baddies, and replaced it with a simple jump or smash; much like the original 
 mario bro games for NES and SNES. With no real battle section of the game I found it tedious to 
 progress through the levels... in Paper Mario: Thousand Year Door (One of my favorite games ever) 
 You build up an arsenal of attack moves and items, and built them up for your tag along friends 
 as well, which made the game feel like you were accomplishing something. In Super Paper Mario... 
 I didnt even get close to that feeling; it's far too linear. The abilities of your friends aren't 
 utilized enough either.
  
  The other thing I REALLY didn't like was that when you level up due to your accumulation of experience 
 you are automatically assigned a bonus (one of health or strength) which is very unlike previous 
 paper mario's... the selection of your level bonus added so much to the previous games.
  
  Also.... NO BADGES.... one of my FAVORITE parts of previous paper mario's was carefully selecting 
 your badges to optimize your attacks/health during battles; well now there aren't even any real 
 battles :- ( much less the excitement of badges.
  
  The 3D factor was interesting, but I felt a little half baked. The 3d challenges we're designed 
 for a much younger audience, most of the time all you have to do is remember to switch to the 3d 
 view and the challenges solution is immediately apparent.
  
  I'm surprised this game got as good a rating from this site as it did... it must be due to the 
 number of people who are new to the series; as playing this game, from a loyal follower of the 
 series perspective, left me wanting so much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMKFan
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 11, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  I think many of you Mario fans remember Paper Mario on the Nintendo 64. I bet many of you enjoyed 
 too. A few years later, Paper Mario: The Thousand Year Door for the GameCube came along and that 
 too was a pretty popular game. Now we have Super Paper Mario on the Wii, which technically isn't 
 an RPG game. It has it's RPG elements in there, but other than that, the gameplay is platforming.
 
  
  Considering I prefer platformers to RPGs, I think this is better than the previous Paper Marios, 
 but it's a bit too easy. Unlike the last two games, you really don't need any skill to beat most 
 of the bosses here. It's kind of easy to get lost in some areas of the game though. I really like 
 how each playable character (Mario, Luigi, Peach and Bowser) has there own uniqueness in moves. 
 Too bad they didn't make Yoshi playable. I would have liked to see him.
  
  The graphics in this game is okay. Pretty good for it being Paper graphics and even has some old-school 
 graphics whenever pick up a star and you turn giant.
  
  After you beat the game though, there's still more to do. The Pit of 100 Trials from the last game 
 makes a return. This game actually two of them and I recommend getting to the later 20s or early 
 30s before trying to beat them. After you beat the Flopside one for the second time, you unlock 
 a few surprises.
  
  So, this is a pretty good game. I would definitely recommend it to Paper Mario fans and old-school 
 Mario fans alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doodleduh7
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 11, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Well, I had always loved the Paper Mario series. However, when I heard that the next paper mario 
 game wouldn't be an RPG like the first two, I was crushed. I had loved the gameplay in Paper Mario, 
 and now they were turning it into some lame side scroller. However, I gave it a chance, thinking 
 it would still be worth buying.
  
  Unfortunately, I was wrong.
  
  Although the dialogue is still funny, and the sound good, the gameplay is a huge disapointment. 
 I never died once playing this game. The only challenging parts are the sidequests. The 3D option 
 is very limited, usually providing more frusturation than fun. I would say this game is worth playing, 
 however, I would NEVER reccomend buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CalesKales
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2007 3:24 am PT
Review:  This was a pretty fun game but very repetitive.
  
  Graphics- Were pretty good although I didnt like how when you went into 3D some objects were still 
 2D. The characters and people looked good and the level design was pretty nice and some of the 
 scenerey looked good.
  
  Gameplay- Fun for awhile but very repetitive. The bosses were very easy and all you did through 
 the whole game was jump on peoples heads. I thought Mario used to be more than that but this was 
 pretty much an insult to Mario.
  
  Sound- The sound was great. Great music that was nice to listen to and the sound people made were 
 funny and good and clear. But the dialog was terrible. Just absolutley horrible. O Chunks was a 
 characters name. What does that even mean. He would say its time for a good chunking. WTF. They 
 basically insulted Mario by only talking about his rad overalls and moustache.
  
  Value- Not very good value. I wouldnt buy it is the type of game were you only want to rent it. 
 Very short and repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: machod_19
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 9, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  The game was great and was really fun to play. I liked the new story line and the new items. The 
 gameplay was the bes part because you got to play 3-D. It was like being Mario and seeing what 
 he saw in his own eyes. The new levels were fun to play in and the old remakes were fun as well. 
 This game is great for all ages and I would give it a great score for a Paper Mario game. I Think 
 if you got to use more of the Wii's revolutionary controls the game would of been much better. 
 There also should be more unlockables and more characters to play with. Other than that I think 
 the game is wonderful, and fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordmaster3823
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 9, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  okey let's start the game. first of all as a platformer it's really fun and it's just like every 
 Mario 2-D game that was made. but the things that the game adds such as the 3-D to 2-D game and 
 the mixture bettween platformer and RPG because it took one half that the RPG needs that is the 
 items collecting and the turn-base fights are replaced by jumping on emeny at real time make the 
 game another must buy Mario game. the story is a basic RPG story that is that count black is a 
 new villan that takes peach and bowser and marrys tham and so he could get powers to take over 
 all worlds that are the levels in the game, it's not as great as a Final Fantasy story but it's 
 good enough. now to the gameplay, as i said it's a long version of the 80's mario games with great 
 puzzles thanks to the 3-d turning because first of all it makes you look at the game at diffrent 
 prospective and it has great puzzle using it and the pixls togther to go threw place you would 
 normally can't pass. the only complain i have from the 3-D is that even that they made some great 
 puzzles there are some useless ones where to go up you turn to 3-D and then you can go up while 
 they just could put the stirs in 2-D and that's it. there are also many pixls that give you power 
 ups such as throwing things and flip things and unlike many other games that have power-ups that 
 you barly use after you get them this game gives you many places to use them and mix them. the 
 grapics are just beautiful they are colorful and even that the 3-D world isn't as colorful and 
 doesn't look like 3d pictures such as in Kingdom Hearts II but still looks nice. in sound it's 
 a mixture, there is no voice acting even that the game does have good and funny dialouge it's something 
 that Nintendo needs to realise that sooner or later they are going to upgrade the games and not 
 just the consle and stay with the older games that where great because they worked and they where 
 new and yes i am tolking about Zelda that even that it is great it's Ocarina of Time with better 
 grapics and even that it's still fun, it's the little things that make it a perfect game. now back 
 to the game. it's great as a mario game and the add ons are just make it everything you would have 
 wished in a platformer , but some design problems make it a great game but not a classic because 
 of the game but it ill be beacuse it started the idea of turning the world from 3-D to 2-D that 
 as you can see that alredy games copy the idea like Crush that as we saw in the review they really 
 loved it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Oogie
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  If yout don't like the game you either hate the way the RPG worked or u just hate mario it puts 
 a whole new spec into what instant RPG battling can be it is a sure buy game for any mario fan 
 but remember it is not like the first paper marios but still is a paper mario game that you should 
 at least try. There is a lot of story and there is a lot of talking but the talking is not as anoying 
 like on cooking Mama (better than mama) . If you want to see a game like the first paper marios 
 than just hold tight I've heard of a new paper mario game coming out just like the first two except 
 it will be called paper luigi AWSOME. Will any way the game was very good and should be put as 
 a legend in a new way to rpg so I hope wii meet again on another review. To Rayman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dpnfman01
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Paper Mario has always for some reason been a popular game in its series but for some reason, even 
 in this time and age it still has a hook on people. One of the neat features in the game is being 
 able to go from 2D to 3D, however that takes place a little bit later in the game. The music in 
 the gme is quite interesting with different remixes of classic mario music along with new and diffrent 
 types and will keep Mario himself dancing. So check this game out unless you dont like be paper..... 
 then I suggest you move onto a diffrent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zachdragon
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 6, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is a must have for any Wii owner. Its long and engaging story combined with its 
 intuitive controls make a great game to be added to the Wii library. Like the previous Paper Mario 
 games which both were strict RPG games set in a Mario world this entry in the franchise is a Mario 
 platformer with RPG elements. Using the Wiimote in this game makes using the magic very fun some 
 magic like Fire burst ask you to shake the Wiimote up and down to charge the meter other magic 
 ask you position the Wiimote at certain angles to charge the power this feature in the game is 
 vey fun. One of the huge features in Super Paper Mario is the ability to change the world around 
 you into 2D or 3D using this ability is very fun and you use it to find secret passage ways and 
 secret items and doors. AS you go through the game you collect little buddies called pixis all 
 have their own little power that let you get past certain obstacles. Unforunatly there is not much 
 replay value unless you are (OCD) and need to collect all the cards which do absolutly nothing 
 to help you. The graphics in this game are their own its unique art style that is only used in 
 the Paper Mario games. All in all its a must have for any Wii owner and should not be missed just 
 be prepared for lots of text its pain sometimes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 7, 2007 4:33 am PT
Review:  The Paper Mario &amp; RPG series has now been running for several years, starting at the original 
 Mario RPG on the Super Nintendo back over 10 years ago. Things have changed quite a lot since the 
 series began, in fact this latest outing scoots off the main vein of the series by following the 
 usual Wii standard of making games more accessible This may upset Mario RPG purists as Super Paper 
 Mario dumps the traditional turn based combat that was created by Square, makers of Final Fantasy 
 for Mario RPG, and instead goes back to roots and uses the classic real time Mario formula found 
 in the original NES games. This definitely makes the game appeal to gamers that usually would not 
 like the heavy text and menus of the RPG games, it makes the whole game much easier to get into 
 and much quicker to play through. 
  
  
  Paper Mario has 8 chapters each divided into 4 sub worlds just like Super Mario Bros 1, observant 
 players will see many other tips of the hat to other Nintendo games. I won&amp;#8217; t spoil the 
 moments by listing them here, but it is typical of the games humor and style to see art from Super 
 Mario 1 or obscure lines of dialog. The talking in the game is kept pretty light, besides the odd 
 piece of advice the game could be played through without enjoying any of the games dialog and just 
 skipping through into the action. This just adds to the game&amp;#8217; s accessibility without 
 taking away too much from the RPG elements, there is plenty of dialog if you want to talk to some 
 of the wondering NPCs, this also opens up a few side quests that&amp;#8217; ll make the game easier 
 if you want to spend the time doing them.
  
  
  Throughout the game you&amp;#8217; ll find clean and sharp graphics, once you advance far enough 
 in the story you&amp;#8217; ll see some really nice and stylish shifts from 2D to 3D. in the end 
 though it&amp;#8217; s nothing that&amp;#8217; s really ahead of 1000 Year door for the Gamecube 
 but since 2D art has it&amp;#8217; s own timeless quality it&amp;#8217; s not really a letdown. The 
 sound is also exactly what you&amp;#8217; d expect from a high profile Mario game, with several 
 remixed songs as well as some new tunes, it all follows the same good quality and high standard 
 of all the other Mario games before it.
  
  
  Like I mentioned before the Gameplay has gone through some streamlining, you&amp;#8217; ll need 
 no experience of the previous games to get any head start on the story or the game mechanics. Paper 
 Mario includes a handful of playable characters that you&amp;#8217; ll unlock throughout the game, 
 as well as a dozen Pixls who will grant you a special move as long as they are equipped. This is 
 pretty standard stuff and the unlocking of new Pixls and characters allows new areas to be reached 
 thanks to your new abilities. 
  
  
  The Wii has been needing some large games to build interest from the hard core gaming community, 
 and while Super Paper Mario definitely isn&amp;#8217; t a pickup and play mini game collection, 
 it also isn&amp;#8217; t as hard core as some may hope. Without getting involved in the pit of 100 
 trials, the side quests and the card collecting, I was able to sail through the game in about 15 
 hours with no real difficulty. Even people with very little gaming experience may find themselves 
 solving puzzles and beating the various creatures without dieing a single time, but the ride is 
 fun while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danjoseph78
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jun 6, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  If you loved the Paper Mario games for N64 and Gamecube, you better rent this one first. The folks 
 at Nintendo have played off of the sucess of New Super Mario Bros. and abandoned the formula that 
 made the last two paer Mario installments and Mario &amp; Luigi so entertaining.
  
  I miss the turn based system and despise the platforming elements which are incorporated in the 
 game. I am hopefull that they give us a Wii instalment, that is more similar to Thousand Year Door 
 sometime in the near future.
  
  Make sure that you know what you're getting into before spending 60 bucks on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 13, 2007 5:11 am PT
Review:  For the first few months of its life, people have been complaining that there's nothing to play 
 on their Wii. By now everyone finished Zelda, played through rounds of Wii sports and downloaded 
 a fair shade of virtual console games leaving only mini-game collections and PS2 shovelware.
  
  Well, it's time to quit whining, Mario's here to cheer you up. Originally intended for the 
 Gamecube, Super Paper Mario was remade for the Wii and it actually makes good use of the control 
 scheme that you'd think it was always planned for the Wii.
  
  Breaking away from the turn based combat of the previous Paper Mario games, SPM goes back to Mario's 
 platforming roots. In this adventure Princess Peach is kidnapped by a mysterious baddie named Count 
 Bleck who forces her to marry Bowser in order bring forth something called the Chaos heart which 
 will destroy the universe. Mario is transported to a parallel dimension known as flipside where 
 his adventure begins.
  
  While this game plays out like a 2D platformer, what really sets this game apart is the ability 
 to flip the landscape from 2D to 3D to reveal secrets like pipes or doorways. The downfall to being 
 in 3D is that Mario's health slowly goes down meaning you can only stay in 3D for a limited time 
 or you start to take damage. You hold the Wii-mote sideways and control Mario as you would in a 
 classic NES game. However this doesn't work as well in 3D as the d-pad doesn't have the precision 
 as an analog stick leading to a few damaging run ins with enemies.
  
  As the game progresses, Mario is eventually joined by familiar characters each with their own special 
 abilities. Peach can use her parasol to float over large pits, Bowser brings his fire and double 
 attack power and Luigi can jump extra high. As a Mario fan it was cool to see Mario, Bowser and 
 Peach fight side by side for the first time since Super Mario RPG (SNES) . Also, after having a 
 boring solo adventure and being only a background character or absent in past Mario adventures, 
 it's nice to see Luigi have a major part in a Mario game again.
  
  Not only does Mario have his friends to help him, he is also joined by little creatures called 
 Pixls who give the gang secondary abilities such as ground pounds, grabbing and slimming. The first 
 Pixl who joins you, Tippi the butterfly has the most Wii-centric feature. Point the remote at the 
 screen and you can scan the screen to reveal hidden items or learn about enemies.
  
  Also, all the items from previous Paper Marios return to add the RPG element to this game. The 
 neat thing is, attack items require you to shake or point the Wii-mote in a certain way to activate 
 the item.
  
  Only a few things that keeps this from greatness. First the game is a little too easy. You can 
 breeze through all 8 levels in 10-20 hours and once it is beaten there's little to go back to. 
 There's a few side quests like treasure hunting, the arcade, card collecting, cooking and the return 
 of The Pit of 100 Trials though most of these feel tedious once the game is beaten. Also as with 
 other Paper Marios, this is very text heavy at times and though there's a good story that, at times, 
 is downright hysterical, you get tired of having to read so much.
  
  Still, overall this is a great game. After a while, you wonder if there is such a thing as bad 
 Mario game. Really you'd think the Mario format would've been exhausted after 25 years, but this 
 game proves that Nintendo is one of the most innovative game companies around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D_Money16
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 4, 2007 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Too much text
  Basically, it took me 15 minutes to actually get to play the first level, and it seems that for 
 every minute of play there are 2 minutes of dialogue which can get frustrating really fast. I really 
 love the gameplay elements and I love the level design, but it feels like they drew the game out 
 by adding a whole bunch of text. All in all though I would highly recommend this game simply because 
 of the fun gameplay and the novelty of the game. Give it a look at least and I don't think you'll 
 be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joseph113
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 4, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  I gave the gameplay 7 because when you flip to 3-D your time is limited also the two motion controls 
 used in the game feel tacked on.
  
  I gave the graphics a 8 because this is just one of the few tricks game developers have learned. 
 It basically makes the game appear to have better graphics than it actually does, but in the end 
 the games graphics were beautifully done.
  
  Sound never really bothers me unless its a constant loop which SPM does not have.
  
  I put 
 8 for value because once you've played it once you really dont want to eep doing it like in the 
 old Mario Bros. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkknightFXR
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 3, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  This is a solid game for the Nintendo Wii.
  
  The story fits and goes a long way for this game never becoming dull except for some places where 
 it gets kind of lengthy for no apparent reason.
  
  Sound is is all what it should be, they all fit what the characters do like if Mario jumps it uses 
 sounds people know and recognize that hey that's his jump sound or when bowser blows fire hey that 
 sounds like fire.
  
  Pixls were a neat addition to the game, they keep up the whole partner system with before having 
 people like Goombella and Lakilester and change them to characters that are more required to use 
 throughout the game.
  
  The price of the game... well i'd say isn't entirely worth it, the length of the game doesn't seem 
 to fit what it costs maybe a few dollars cheaper perhaps but it's still a decent price because 
 I know the Wii is hard to configure to from the last systems you have to upgrade graphics slightly 
 and possibly sounds but if you were going to make something fairly expensive why not make it more 
 lengthy of a game instead of just adding some minor filler like long hall ways.
  
  Well that's it for me, and hopefully some of you took the time to read and hopefully others give 
 a proper review instead of ranting and saying like Zomg tes os teh hotoness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m1k3m
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 3, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Okay so what we have here is an RPG/Platformer hybrid. For the most part the game pulls the off 
 flawlessly. The whole game is just non-stop fun! Now it's time for our categories.
  
  -Gameplay: Super Paper Mario sports the old school style by making you hold the Wii Remote sideways 
 like an NES gamepad. This control scheme works great and really suits the style of the game. It 
 makes plenty of references to older games in the Mario franchise. But the game isn't just holding 
 the controller sideways and going through levels. To use some certain items you may have to shake 
 the Wii remote or point at things on the screen. This is a very subtle thing but it really helps 
 make the whole game feel a lot more immersive. Now this game's main gimmick is letting you change 
 the game world from 2D to 3D with a simple touch of the A button. It is very fun to switch around 
 and this concept is executed well throughout the whole game. There are many puzzles that are centered 
 around switching between the two dimensions. Then there are your characters. You have Mario, Peach, 
 Bowser, and Luigi. You are forced to use the different characters to solve a lot of different puzzles 
 but they don't make you overuse any one character except for Mario but that is a good thing because 
 this is a Mario game. Oh and each character has their own special abilities but I won't spoil them 
 if you haven't played the game yet. Then there are your Pixls which are little fairy-like beings 
 that are also around to help you solve puzzles and fight enemies. Then there is your battling. 
 It is much more fast paced because this game isn't turn-based. Defeating an enemy is as simple 
 as just stomping on their head. The RPG elements are also a very nice addition to this odd hybrid. 
 Let's say you are in a pinch and are low on HP. If you take a Shroom Shake you will regain some 
 HP. And that is my opinion on the gameplay of Super Paper Mario. Now it's time for graphics.
  Gameplay-10
  
  -Graphics: The graphics on Super Paper Mario are nothing to write home about. 
 They are very artistic and all that good stuff but from a technical standpoint this game could 
 have easily been presented on an N64.
  Graphics-7
  
  -Sound: The sound is surprisingly good. Between hearing Mario Wahoo! and the epic music you hear 
 when facing Count Bleck the sound is quite good. It could have used some voice acting though. I 
 really want to hear what Bowser sounds like talking lol!
  Sound-8
  
  -Value: This game's replay value is really good considering it's part RPG part Platformer. There 
 are the two different Pits Of 100 Trials. Collecting all of the Cooking Disks and Catch Cards will 
 also take you a very long time. There's the Sammer Guy challenge too. And finally a few extra Pixls 
 that aren't needed to get through the main quest.
  Value-10
  
  -Tilt: I just had to give this game a ten here because I had nonstop fun while playing it. One 
 of the must-haves for the Wii and in my honest opinion it's even better than Zelda.
  Tilt-10
  
  Overall Score-9.4 This is a superb game and it should not be overlooked by anyone! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SQUAREENIXslave
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jun 3, 2007 1:15 am PT
Review:  I was excited when this game was announced on the GC awhile ago, now not so much. If you enjoy 
 walking forever and figuring out puzzles then enjoy (more on that in a minute) . There's good. The 
 graphics are clean and if you have patience for the immense amount of dialogue its funny sometimes. 
 Item management is ritarded, puzzles require you to fit a square peg into a square hole, wii controls 
 are as gimmicky as the system itself (thats right, soon you'll realize your dressed up Gamecube 
 is tacky) , and the other characters suck. Why have a dumb story at all, where's my good ol'Mario 
 that I thought I was gonna get. Rent if you're board with Wii sports or the other Wii game worth 
 playing, Wii Sports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IAmRodyle
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 2, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  One of those must-haves for the console. Although not the best for showing off the Wii's abilities, 
 Super Paper Mario definately hits the spot for any gamer that enjoyed either the original Mario 
 Bros., the Paper Mario series, or both. The blending of the main essences of these two acclaimed 
 titles makes for an interesting experience, one that's difficult to compare to other games.
  The only thing that went wrong for me is that sometimes it was impossible to speak with important 
 (sometimes crucial) characters, but was easily solved by simply leaving the room and re-entering. 
 This only happened on two occasions.
  I only wish there was more involvement with moving the controller - the potential was quite large. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay, Paper Mario no!!!!! I loved the RPG style battling and the picking attacks not jumping 
 on enemies like SUPER MARIO BROS. We already have that game!!!!!
  
  Graphics, Amazing!!!! they are so frigign amazing! u can litterly switch from 2d to 3d and see 
 things difrently and it is so friggin cool!!!!
  
  Sound and Music, The sound is great too. You gotta love the music, and you gotta love the sound 
 theres nothing wrong about it like some games. It's just that great mario, and rpg music.
  
  Value and Titl, Yes it is a good value and worth buying. But I don't know about the whole changing 
 the battle system set up. It was more Rpg feel but they turned it into a cheap jump on the people 
 exacly like Super Mario Bros. I got nothing agenst Super Mario Bros but why make this games originality 
 turn into it.
  
  Controlls, Layout, The Controlls work fine, you put your Wii-mote sideways and press 2 to jump 
 and A to switch from 2D/3D and It is fine.
  
  Total Rating, With amazing Graphics and Sound and a great story and controls, but not so great 
 battle systems it gets and 8.5 because its a great game. Why? One word, Mario!
  
  
  no longer rpg
  
  now platformer.
  
  which kinda sucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiination27
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 12, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is good in many ways.. Heres some thoughts from the author.. lol
  
  You, yourself, Mario adventure out to go out and once again.. savivg the princess (OMG DOES SHE 
 EVER LEARN!?) AND.. now the world. but not by bowser though.. but by some evil magic freak who 
 is supposed to be a boss. named Count Bleck.. and oh what a boss he is... about the easiest end 
 boss I have ever beaten... and he's in love with your butterfly pixl who used to be a human before 
 count bleck turned evil. The butterfly's name is Timpani, shes basically like Navi from Zelda.. 
 so get used to hating her. Back to Bleck.. he has some possy that time after time keep trying to 
 kill you and time after time you own them with ease but they come back the next level and try again. 
 After your quest for saving the princess is done she joins your team then bowser the evil.. ehm.. 
 turtle? and finally Luigi. They all have certain special powers.
  
  
  
  Basically what you are able to 
 do when u start the game is that you find out how to switch from 2D to 3D, Although this is a very 
 cool add on to find hidden items that you cant see in 2D, I find myself using it every few steps. 
 To help you on your quest u pick up pixls, which are little pixelated friends that give u a special 
 ability. also u pick up princess peach, bowser, and luigi. The 4 heroes all have some special power. 
 Mario's is switching dimensions, Peach's is floating skowly to the ground with her umbrella, Bowser's 
 is to breath fire at enemies, and Luigi's is to jump extra high.
  
  But after all the flaws.. i still have to say.. BEST GAME ON THE WII right now so its a defiante 
 buy, you will have a blast playing it. believe me.
  
  Some other ratings
  
  The Length... eh.. very good it'll keep u busy..
  The Difficulty... this is where i have to say 
 its a little too easy
  The OVERALL FUN FACTOR.. awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uber_Antwerp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 1, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  Just how good is Super Paper Mario? Imagine combining the great tastes of baked beans and ice cream. 
 They don't really go together, right? But what if we could succeed in capturing both of their flavors 
 into something absolutely awesome. That's Super Paper Mario for you.
  
  The game combines aspects of both RPGs and platformers, as you probably already know. Although 
 this doesn't seem like it would work too well, it flows perfectly. Based on your amount of points, 
 you level up and gain health, strength, etc. This is a great way to get gamers to actually fight 
 enemies because many players just skip past the baddies in other Mario games. It offers an incentive 
 to staying and fighting, which is something not usually associated with a platformer.
  
  The gameplay is amazing. The different abilities that pixls grant Mario keep you guessing as to 
 what is going to happen next.
  
  The graphics, in Paper Mario fashion, are cute, bright, colorful, and work very well.
  
  Sound 
 is somewhat disappointing as the background music is an extremely simple loop tape, and the traditional 
 Mario jumping sounds, etc. are all still there.
  
  Overall, Super Paper Mario is worth the MSRP $50, and I would recommend that any Mario fan should 
 pick up a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmish82
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 2, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  I had never played a Paper Mario game until this game so I wasn't quite sure what to expect. Right 
 off the bat, the game hits you with an immense amount of reading to get you into the story of the 
 game. It took about 10 minutes before I was actually able to begin the gameplay. Once the game 
 started, I enjoyed the quirkiness of the game. The look of the game is great and the ability to 
 flip to 3D is implemented fairly well.
  
  After getting past the first few Chapters, the game became pretty repetitive to me. You pick up 
 some cool Pixls along the way which give your characters more special abilities but most do not 
 get much use. The abilities you do pick up do work very well, it's just a shame that most are just 
 one-shot deals here and there.
  
  The biggest downside to this game is the amount of reading. I don't mind reading text in a game, 
 but there is sooooooooooooooooo much to read in this one that once the game gets rolling, it just 
 screeches to a complete halt for you to read more text bubbles. This really limits how fun this 
 game could have been, as it's frustrating to keep reading when all you want to do is keep playing 
 the game.
  
  Super Paper Mario combine some fun abilities, some gorgeous looking levels, and some quirkiness 
 to make for a pretty fun game. This game could have been much better were it not for the overruse 
 of text bubbles which really slows the game down. I would rent this one first to see if it's for 
 you, as it really wasn't for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sunrie
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 30, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Combinig platforming with RPG elements, Super Paper Mario has landed in the hands of the public. 
 Is it all that it's cracked up to be? Is it fun for people who generally never played the other 
 Mario RPG games outside of the original SNES Super Mario RPG? Yes on all accounts.
  
  Gameplay -
  Run, jump, squish, break, and... flip?! Yeah, that's the basis of it. However, this 
 game is a solid platformer and reminds us all why classic Mario was so much fun. Throw in the new 
 abilities such as flipping into 3D from side scrolling and you have even more areas to explore.
 
  
  The puzzles aren't very difficult and neither are the bosses. Don't get me wrong, this is actually 
 a good thing for this game. The difficulty is just right and nothing is too hard, too easy, or 
 too difficult to figure out. Using all your abilities in your aresenal will ensure you get through 
 with few problems.
  
  Still, the game is a little on the short side. Without the infrequent, annoying side missions suddenly 
 thrown at you, the game would be even shorter. I can't help but feel that Nintendo added in some 
 really unnecessary filler in order to prolong the gaming experience in order to lazily explain 
 something about the story... sometimes things you just don't care about...
  
  Characters all have their own personallity and motivation. From the main heros, to the protaginists, 
 to the pixls, everyone speaks their own way. Instead of having voice acting, you get phonetically 
 spelled words with how the characters would say the line... except for Mario, who is mute except 
 his, Let's go! and the like. They gave Luigi lines, but not Mario... I thought this was odd.
  
  Graphics-
  Not uber, not mushy, just right. Each world has its own theme and even brings 
 back memories of the first world of Super Mario Bros, the Choco Hills from Super Mario World, and 
 even the Mole Cave from Super Mario RPG. There is even a world done entirely of oversized pixels 
 , which is impressive and funny.
  
  The sprites are detailed enough to give you a happy feeling, but not so much that you jump up and 
 down. Most enemies and characters don't go 3D even in 3D mode... so that's a huge let down. It's 
 understandable, but the enemies who CAN flip with you are still side viewed in the 3D view.
  
  Sound-
  Well, it's a Mario game. The score is actually quite excellent with some familiar 
 songs, and the original ones are catchy. Sound effects are equally impressive, but can get bothersome 
 after hearing the flipping sound nine times on a level...
  
  Overall-
  This is a solid, must have game for any Mario fan and any one who has a Wii, period. Excellent 
 platforming, RPG elements, and a hilarious cast of characters. Do yourself a favor and say, I was 
 there for Super Paper Mario! You'll be sorry if you don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursednavi
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 30, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  When i heard they were changing paper mario to a side scroller i was very disappointed. Though 
 after i bought the game i got into it and it wasnt as bad as i though. For people that beat th 
 eother two paper marios get this game. It wil be fun to have a new advanture to go on, but if you 
 havent played the other two dont get this game get the others. This game was just missing the fun 
 of party members, the great boss battles, cool special attacks, and badges. In conclusion the game 
 was fun but short and not as great as the others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chelitodelgado
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 30, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  For this small review I'm going to talk about the essentials in Super Paper Mario, you can look 
 at this game and immediatly see its not a common game. For me, its got the N-factor in it, what 
 does this mean? Originality and quality. Personally I love the graphics and it makes me think that 
 3D rendered with millions of polygons graphics are nice to see but not elemental, evidently thats 
 why I got the Wii. The graphics are very pretty with lots of animation and it looks really well. 
 The story is not the strong point in this game, or at least it isn't yet as I'm still halfway through 
 it, yet the platforming+RPG elements combine quite well in order to get a light pick up and play 
 game. Another thing that is really original is the 2D world transforming into 3D, this is where 
 I say Nintendo is different, because its always creating new concepts and ideas in videogaming, 
 personally I loved looking at the 2D worlds you always see into 3D. I haven't checked out but the 
 PSP game Crush seems to have a similar idea or something too. I loved the game, yet I'm still waiting 
 for something bigger for the Wii, yet you can pass a very nice time playing this excellent game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hungry_Homer111
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 29, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Mario has been a huge icon in gaming ever since Nintendo decided to take the nameless character 
 from Donkey Kong and give him his own game, and his own name. His platforming games have been considered 
 some of the best of the genre. He has also been exploring many different genres, such as party 
 games, sports games, fighting games, puzzle games, and RPGs, just to name a few. Among the different 
 RPG games with Mario, a series of games has been created called the Paper Mario series. In this 
 series, Mario and all the other characters are paper-thin. In this new game in the series, Mario 
 has been given the power to flip between 2D and 3D. In addition to this change, Nintendo also decided 
 to make another change to the series. They have made it a combination between an RPG game and a 
 platformer game.
  
  Story:
  
  The story starts off at Mario's home. Mario and Luigi are bored since they are not saving the world 
 from anybody. Just then, Toad comes up to them and tells them that Princess Peach has been kidnapped... 
 again. Luigi quickly comes up with the idea that Bowser must have taken her, so he goes to Bowser's 
 castle. However, it turns out that Bowser did not kidnap Peach, and a mysterious person named Count 
 Bleck is the one who kidnapped her. Bleck wants to use Peach and Bowser in his plan to destroy 
 every world. Mario is knocked unconscious while Peach, Luigi, Bowser, and Bowser's minions are 
 all taken by Bleck. Mario is woken up by a Pixl named Tippi. Tippi brings Mario to the land of 
 Flipside because she believes that Mario is the legendary hero that the Ancients have talked about, 
 who can save the worlds from Bleck's plan. Now Mario has to find his friends, and stop Bleck's 
 plans. The story is not focused as much on getting Peach back as it is about Bleck's plans to destroy 
 the worlds. This story is pretty cliched. However, it is handled in a way that is really interesting, 
 and also is a good departure from the usual Bowser kidnapped Peach story that they have in almost 
 every Mario game.
  
  However, the story itself is not what is so great about the game's writing. It is actually the 
 humor placed into the game that is really strong, and makes it worth reading through all the text 
 (and there is a lot of text) because it is actually really funny.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  If you are interested in this game, you are probably one of two kinds of people. The first kind 
 of person who would be interested in this game is the fans of the Paper Mario RPG games. The second 
 kind of person who would be interested in this game is the fan of the old 2D Mario platformers. 
 This is because of the fact that Nintendo has gone a different route with this game than they have 
 with past Paper Mario games. They have made a game that has elements from both the Paper Mario 
 RPGs and the 2D platformers. However, if these people are just looking for strictly an RPG or a 
 platformer, then they will not find what they are looking for. If these people are willing to try 
 something new with the elements from the genres that they like, then this is a game for them.
 
  
  In this game, you control Mario, and later gain members to your party. Each member has a different 
 ability. For example, Mario's ability is to flip between 2D and 3D. This ability is the one that 
 is used the most throughout the game. It is a really unique idea, that manages to be more than 
 just a gimmick, although I do wish they had expanded on the idea more than they did. Unfortunately 
 the other abilities are neither as important as Mario's, outside of a few occasions, nor are they 
 as interesting.
  
  Wile going through the game, Mario also gains about a dozen Pixls that help him, the first one 
 being Tippi. These Pixls allow Mario to have different abilities, which are needed in order to 
 progress further in the game. You can have two Pixls at once, although one of them has to be Tippi, 
 and you switch between the other Pixls. One Pixl allows you to grab some objects or enemies and 
 throw them at some things, such as switches that are out of reach. Another Pixl lets Mario use 
 bombs to kill enemies or open cracks in walls. Tippi has a few uses. She can tell you about an 
 object or an enemy if you point at it with the controller. This can give the player some useful 
 tips with certain parts of the game. She can also reveal hidden objects such as doors or stairs.
 
  
  When looking at this game from the platforming side, the game may seem a bit disappointing. The 
 older platformer games were designed as platformers, and threw different kinds of platforming challenges 
 at the players. This game's platforming challenges are not nearly as difficult as those games' 
 challenges were. The same is true when looking at the RPG side of the game. The older RPGs were 
 designed as RPGs, and had difficult RPG challenges. However, this game's RPG challenges are not 
 as challenging as the other RPG games. The real fun in this game comes from the combination of 
 the two genres. The unique RPG/platformer gameplay is done really well and is very enjoyable.
 
  
  Unfortunately, the fact that neither the platforming or RPG elements are that difficult hurts the 
 gameplay, even if you don't look at the game as either an RPG or platformer. The game is not that 
 difficult to beat. I only died once in the main game, and that was because of stupidity on my part. 
 The game becomes even easier as you level up throughout the game, so that Mario can kill enemies 
 easier, and he can take more hits from enemies before dying. Also, I ended up beating the game 
 in just over 30 hours, and that's keeping in mind that I had stopped to do some of the side-quests. 
 The actual main story is a little over 20 hours long, and a lot of that time is reading the text 
 in the game. However, despite the easiness of the game, and the shortness of the main game, it 
 actually manages to remain a very fun game, and one of the better games that I've played on the 
 Wii so far.
  
  However, I also have to point out that there are a few levels in the game which are really stupid 
 and tedious. Luckily, there are only a few of these levels.
  
  In addition to the main gameplay, there is a lot to do on the side. A lot of this is collecting 
 things like cards of different characters and recipes. However, there's enough here for people 
 who are not the kinds of people who like collecting things like that in videogames. One is a re-design 
 of an old classic side-quest, the pit of 100 trials. This part of the game is personally one of 
 my favorite parts of the game. It is also the most challenging part of the game, and it took up 
 most of the 10 extra hours that I spent doing the side-quests in the game. It also cause me to 
 die many times in the game, unlike the main game. It is extremely different from the one that you 
 knew in The Thousand Year Door, although I'll let you see it for yourself. I thought that this 
 was even more fun than the one in TTYD.
  
  In addition to this, there are a few arcade games that you can play. These are really simplistic 
 games, and are very fun. My least favorite one is a memory game, where you point at different cards 
 and try to match them. After a while the cards move making it harder. There's also a light-gun 
 type of game where you shoot Boos before they can come to the front of the screen and hurt you. 
 Sometimes a Boo will be carrying Toad, and if you shoot the Boo Toad will give you a power-up. 
 As the game goes on, it gets really intense as more Boos come, and even Big Boos, which take a 
 few shots to kill. Another game has Mario on a small island. You have to tilt the controller in 
 order to tilt the island and make Mario move left and right in order to catch falling items and 
 avoid falling enemies. This is definitely my favorite game from the arcade, even though the Boo 
 light-gun game is close behind. There is one more game in the arcade, although it is hidden somewhere, 
 so I'll let you find out what it is. Overall, I believe that these arcade games are very good, 
 especially the Boo game and the Island game, and can add a lot of replay value for anybody who 
 enjoys simple games that are fun, although I do wish that they would have had a different game 
 in place of the memory game.
  
  Besides the collecting, the pit of 100 trials, and the arcade, there isn't that much to do besides 
 the main game from what I've seen. However, these things offer a lot to different kinds of gamers.
 
  
  Controls:
  
  The controls in this game cater to the people who buy this game looking for a 2D platformer. In 
 order to play, you tilt the controller on its side, like you do for a Virtual Console game or Excite 
 Truck. The directional pad on the left side of the controller moves Mario, and the 2 button jumps. 
 The 1 button allows you to use the second Pixl's power. Then, while you are Mario, pressing the 
 A button allows you to flip between 2D and 3D. In order to use some of the items that you get in 
 the game, you have to do different things with the controller, such as shake it up and down as 
 fast as you can, or tilt it left or right when it tells you to. Also, just before jumping on an 
 enemy, you can quickly shake the controller in order to do a stylistic jump, gaining style points 
 to level up your character faster. In order to use Tippi's power, you point the controller at the 
 screen. At this time, the enemies stop moving to make it fair, and you press the A button to select 
 an enemy or an object.
  
  However, these motion controls are very limited in the game, so they don't really seem too intrusive 
 on the classic feel of the control setup.
  
  Graphics:
  
  While playing the game, I found that the graphics were not really great from the technical side 
 of graphics. The graphics while in 2D were not that different from The Thousand Year Door's graphics, 
 with maybe just a little upgrade. However, the greatness of the game's graphics lies in the art 
 style. With each of the worlds, there is a different kind of art style that gives it a unique feeling. 
 My personal favorite style was in the 6th world. The world had a group of people called the Sammer 
 Guy (a play on the word Samurai) , and the world has a very interesting Japanese art style, with 
 some buildings in the backgrounds that fit in with the style.
  
  Sound:
  
  Some of my favorite songs from videogames have come from Nintendo games, especially from Mario 
 games. The music from his games have been some of the most memorable out of any games that I've 
 played. However, this game's songs are not nearly as memorable as his other games. That does not 
 necessarily mean it is bad. In fact, some of them are very good. However, it doesn't have quite 
 as much impact as I am used to from Mario games. The sound effects in this game are a nice twist 
 on some of the older sounds, such as the old Mario jumping sound, and adds to the classic feel 
 of the game.
  
  Overall:
  
  This is a game that does not use the controller to make a new kind of game, or trying to improve 
 the gameplay of older games. It is, however, a new unique idea to make a 2D/3D Platformer/RPG game. 
 It's not a game for somebody who won't accept anything other than just a Platformer or an RPG, 
 but it does create a fun mix between the two genres making a new kind of game. It ends up being 
 a great game despite being short and easy. The side-quests add a lot to the game and can have people 
 playing for a while. This is definitely a good game to get if you keep an open mind about the game, 
 not restricting yourself to wanting a platforming or RPG game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NATATO
Rating: 9
Date: May 29, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  (Yes, I know what a paragraph is. GS ruins the format when I submit) Super Paper Mario is the worst 
 game in the Paper Mario series. Well, that's nothing to cringe at considering how good its predecessors 
 are. Paper Mario (9.5 GS) and Paper Mario: The Thousand Year Door (9.2 GS) were both outstanding 
 games that put the series at par with other great Nintendo series like Zelda and Metroid. If you've 
 played previous games in the series, don't expect SPM to blow you away or if you're a traditionalist 
 you might even hate it; but regardless, Super Paper Mario is still untapped Paper Mario awesomeness 
 waiting to be played -- and despite not living up to PM 1 and 2, is still of AAA quality. Super 
 Paper Mario's story starts off just like any other Mario game. Princess Peach has been abducted 
 and Mario and Luigi are called on to save her. Logically, the Mario Bros. pay a visit to Bowser's 
 Castle, where instead of finding the Princess, they find Bowser prepping his Koopa Troopa, getting 
 ready to capture the Princess themselves. Totally ignorant of the fact that the Princess has already 
 been captured by Count Bleck, a mysterious, ghostlike figure with a top hat, Mario and Bowser awkwardly 
 dispute over the Princess until Count Bleck shows up and more or less blows up the scene. Mario, 
 losing Luigi and the Princess, finds himself in the town of Flipside where he learns that Count 
 Bleck is attempting to end all worlds. Mario must collect the 7 pure hearts which will allow 
 him to stop Count Bleck and save all worlds from total destruction. Mario teams up with a Pixl 
 (floating holographic fairies, more or less) named Tippi, which allows the players to point at 
 the screen using the Wii Remote to more or less scan them like in Metriod Prime and obtain information 
 about various items, characters, and environments. Mario will obtain several Pixls as the adventure 
 progresses, including bombing, hammering, and even shrinking to ant like size Pixls. The Pixls, 
 although they come off more as weapons than actual characters, work great for making puzzles fresh 
 and interesting, and when added to the abilities possessed by the characters that Mario will team 
 up with, create an infinite amount of possibilities when solving a puzzle. And on top of that, 
 Pixls can allow players to choose how they want to fight. Bombing, throwing, hammering and other 
 tactics could be the way you choose how to fight, and give the player somewhat of a customization 
 feeling. Although the story is just as colorful and hilarious as it has in previous games, the 
 lacking characters and environments create a less immersive experience. It's really hard to make 
 believable environments and towns when working in a 2d environment. The environments/levels instead 
 of being laid out in a fashion that makes the player believe they're actually in the Mario universe 
 exploring an island or a mountain, SPM basically lays out the levels like side scroller would, 
 and makes them bigger by adding several doors that transports Mario to various parts of the level. 
 Also, the only characters that join Mario in his adventure are Peach, Bowser, and Luigi, and besides 
 Tippi, the Pixls that Mario use don't have much character either. There are a lot less fun and 
 interesting characters that you can meet and play as, compared the previous Paper Mario games. 
 Previous PM games (or just Mario RPG games for that matter if Legend of the Seven Stars and Super 
 Star Saga are included) all took a turn based RPG format. Although they updated the turn based 
 system with play action mini games during battle (like the active reload in Gears of War) , Paper 
 Mario was more or less a classic RPG. SPM throws that game play style out the door. SPM plays more 
 like a side scrolling plat-former, with a touch of RPG elements to ad some depth to the game play. 
 This ambition doesn't stop there. Mario also obtains the ability early in the game to flip from 
 2d to 3d, which turns the 2d side scroller environments into 3d ones. This ability allows players 
 to see hidden paths and walk behind 2d pillars and platforms. Although the concepts behind the 
 SPM are extremely ambitious and could have led to utter flopage, they are pulled off brilliantly. 
 Graphically SPM isn't competing for realism (obviously) but goes for a very unique style. Of course 
 they have the whole paper thing going like in the previous games, but SPM takes the graphics to 
 a whole new level, of well, uniqueness. One of the chapters will all be made of visible pixels 
 (big enough to notice) , and with any environment, the game will draw it out in front of the player's 
 eyes and color it in before Mario enters it. Although the graphics are far from real, SPM gets 
 a lot for style points, easily enough for a great 8/10. Sound is a weak point, which is usually 
 the case in Paper Mario. The whole synthesized techno Mario sound is getting old, and maybe it's 
 time for the developers to consider a update to a more solid, live orchestrated soundtrack. Even 
 if it was orchestrated, the songs themselves are not that good, but still maintain SOME quality, 
 enough to get 7/10. Also it might be a good idea to update to voiceovers. Paper Mario 4 with voiceovers, 
 if done right, could be absolute dynamite. SPM is a lot shorter than other Super Mario games (about 
 20 hours compared the PM: TTYD which was about 30) , but this is understandable considering in a 
 turn base RPG one will spend a lot more time fighting enemy, bosses, ect. So the 20 hours it takes 
 to beat the main quest is superb considering the game's genre. The game also has several more hardcore 
 side quests the player can complete, such as the 100 trials and recipe collecting. All the levels 
 that are split up into 4 chapters can be easily re-played by going the level's door and choosing 
 to go to chapter 5-1, or 3-4, and so on. In short, although SPM lacks the fire-power that its predecessors 
 had, it's still another awesome Paper Mario adventure. This game packs a lot of fun and good experiences, 
 and even though it doesn't meet the very high standard that the series has set, still is a superb 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordLanz
Rating: 8
Date: May 29, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  I must say, when I first bought this game, I was like am not going to like it, but after a few 
 hours of playing it, it is very good. Same as Paper Mario: TYD, items are the same, but not badges 
 this time, instead they are used as powerups and such. Would have liked to see some badges in there 
 but it was ok. Gameplay was very easy to get used too. Loved the levels, length could have been 
 better, took me 20hrs to beat it, not long at all, not sure about it a second it, might though. 
 Graphics where ok, afterall its Paper lol. In the Gamecube Paper Mario, houses and such where in 
 3D, this time u had to go to 3D to get a good look, not the best I would say, should have stuck 
 to if its not broken, not fix it, They should remember this for next one. Over all well rounded 
 game A- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 30, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  It all started with Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars for Super Nintendo. It started the 
 Mario themed RPG series which evolved into Paper Mario, and now into Super Paper Mario. It's changed, 
 quite a bit, and it sacrificed a lot, but it got a lot new. But the real question is, is it worth 
 it?
  
  The biggest change is the battle system. No longer will you get pushed into turn based battles 
 with your enemies, but instead you'll fight them as if you were playing any other Super Mario game, 
 like Super Mario Bros. 3 for instance. That being said, you still have a health meter and you will 
 take certain amounts of health away from the enemy.
  
  Another change is the new 3D mode. With the hit of the A button, Mario has the ability to switch 
 into 3D for a certain amount of time. This allows you to see more than meets the eye in the 2D 
 mode. This only works with Mario so other party members will have different abilities.
  
  So obviously, bits and pieces or the RPG system are intact, including the ability to have partners, 
 like Peach, Luigi, and even Bowser. (All playable!) Also, you can collect items and go through 
 towns, there is also a bit of backtracking, similar to many RPG games so it's not just getting 
 to the end of the level and moving on. There are also some pretty hardcore boss battles.
  
  One thing Paper Mario 2 had before it was that the script of the game was sometimes downright hilarious. 
 There are quite a lot of funny lines in Super Paper Mario's witty script, but the dialogue this 
 time around just isn't as clever. Still, it beats out plenty of other games in this category.
 
  
  Gameplay: 8/10:
  It works well but at times it seems like it could've been better too. It would be great for a one 
 time spin-off type of game, and it sure plays well and has spectacular boss battles making it easily 
 worth your money. The 3D is a neat feature which I'd like to see continued.
  
  Graphics: 8/10:
  Graphically, the game looks a lot like The Thousand Year Door which had a lot 
 of personality in its graphics, and that's all intact here as well. Not lots of detail, but what's 
 there looks nice. The 3D graphics look pretty nice, but the 2D graphics look even better.
  
  Sound: 8/10: The music is great, and the sound effects are great. Value: 9/10:
  Nine because 
 it's one of the longest 2D sidescrolling platformers ever created, oh yeah and it's got 3D in it 
 too so there's also more to see than you think. In addition to that, there are some sidequests 
 and minigames thrown in.
  
  Control: 8/10:
  The control pad is a little stiff but other than that, it's simple and easy and fun to control 
 with a little motion controls thrown in.
  
  Overall, Super Paper Mario was a near idea that was executed correctly, it's just that it's lost 
 a bit of the charm from past games in the series. Worth it for Wii owners craving something after 
 they've beaten Zelda and Wario Ware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 28, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  It has been a long time since Mario first ventured on his first RPG experience, at that time, Square, 
 already famous for its Final Fantasy series, was responsible of developing and bringing the whole 
 Mushroom Kingdom into a new style of gameplay, one that had never been used before on a Mario game.
 
  
  Ever since two sequels have been released, all of them maintaining the same characteristics of 
 the original Super Mario RPG: The Legend of the Seven Stars, just making the regular updates needed 
 as systems evolve, such as improved graphics and sound. The battle system also underwent some changes 
 but both sequels were still basically the same game.
  
  Smartly Nintendo realized that despite the new controls the Wii features, taking the Paper Mario 
 series into another RPG adventure would cause the new game to look like more of the same. So do 
 not expect Super Paper Mario to be a deep RPG or you can wind up being disappointed at the game.
 
  
  Super Paper Mario is actually a platformer and a pretty good one. To sum it up, the game looks 
 like a Super Mario Bros, with all the Goomba stomping and Koopa Troopa shell-combos that most gamers 
 are familiar with, but with the enhancements that the Wiis hardware allows.
  
  The storyline has never been a big prowess of the series, as you will be engaged in collecting 
 stars during all games, this time the stars have been replaced by Pure Hearts which have to gathered 
 to stop the ending of all worlds and dimensions.
  
  This big destruction is triggered by the marriage of the king of evil with the pure and kind princess. 
 Yep, you guessed it, Bowser and Princess actually marry at the beginning of the game. The man who 
 wants all this destruction is Count Bleck, a strange quirky character that as the story unfolds 
 will surprise you.
  
  Super Paper Mario presents a new style of gameplay, it still keeps some RPG characteristics such 
 as Exp. Points, stats and levels. Each time you kill an enemy you will earn a certain amount of 
 points which will be added to your total score. Once you reach a certain number you will level 
 up, gaining more HP or improving your attack. You can use different items to help you beat stronger 
 enemies, after using this items you will need to perform some moves with the Wiimote to make it 
 work perfectly and do more damage. You play the whole game with the Wiimote sideways, looking like 
 an NES controller, making you feel a little nostalgic while playing through it.
  
  The biggest novelty of this new installment in the series is Marios uncanny ability to flip the 
 world, you can discover many things by pressing the A button and going from 2-D to 3-D. When you 
 are on 3-D you will have to watch the meter as you cant stay like that for much time. In Super 
 Paper Mario your partners have been replaced by Pixls which are strange beings that will do many 
 different things, such as explode, make you tiny or invisible, allow you to grab foes and do many 
 other things. The Pixls, like the partners from other games, will also be useful to go through 
 many challenges and puzzles. Mario will also be joined by some old friends that will help him on 
 his journey. I wont spoil who it is.
  
  Once again the game is divided in chapters which are consisted of four different parts, just like 
 a Super Mario Bros world. Each chapter has its own plot but all of them have the same goal, acquiring 
 a Pure Heart. The plots are fantastic and will keep you going throughout the game.
  
  While trying to avoid the destruction of all worlds you will come across many amazing scenarios 
 that only Nintendo is able to create. All of them are colorful and full of life, he will explore 
 a pre-historic land, outer space, a water world, a geeks fortress and even travel through heaven 
 and hell. The characters also help to keep the game going, however, many of them are annoying and 
 talk way too much. The dialogues are excessive and although some of them are funny others dont 
 come even close.
  
  The graphics on this new adventure are slightly better than Paper Mario: The Thousand Year Door, 
 while on 2-D all characters are sharp, the scenarios are awesome and some effects are great. Unfortunately 
 the same doesnt apply for the 3-D scenarios which are weird. Besides, everything looks kind of 
 ugly once you flip.
  
  The gameplay is fun and sometimes revolutionary, but once again on the 3-D you will encounter many 
 problems to deal with some enemies as it is pretty hard to step exactly on a foes head when you 
 are there. Still, there are many great moments. You will have many different kinds of challenges 
 that are engaging.
  
  On the soundtrack you will hear many remixed songs from the old NES and SNES Mario games, it couldnt 
 be better as those songs are addicting. The sound effects are good but some times you will hear 
 some stuff that looks like it has been recycled from one of its predecessors.
  
  Finally, Super Paper Mario is a compelling adventure filled with colorful scenarios, crazy plots, 
 a great old-school battle system and the whole Mario crew is in the game. Everything makes up for 
 a great game that has its problems but will give you a solid experience.
  
  The game may be short, with a regular quest of around 20 hours, and most battles may be damn easy, 
 including all the bosses. But Im sure anyone who gives it a try wont be disappointed, Super Paper 
 Mario is a twist on the series. Playing Mario has never been so nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pieisgoodman
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 28, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  This games rocks. Stunning fun, addictive. I dont know why, but I love it. Zelda has a challenge 
 of being the best. Not alot of wiimote action though. The pixls make everything better. Pretty 
 hard to beat the game. Hard to level up. Hard to get Picollo. Still fun. SPM is the best. This 
 games rocks. Stunning fun, addictive. I dont know why, but I love it. Zelda has a challenge of 
 being the best. Not alot of wiimote action though. The pixls make everything better. Pretty hard 
 to beat the game. Hard to level up. Hard to get Picollo. Still fun. SPM is the best.
  This games rocks. Stunning fun, addictive. I dont know why, but I love it. Zelda has a challenge 
 of being the best. Not alot of wiimote action though. The pixls make everything better. Pretty 
 hard to beat the game. Hard to level up. Hard to get Picollo. Still fun. SPM is the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: argianas
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 26, 2007 11:33 pm PT
Review:  The first two acclaimed games in the Paper Mario series were turn-based RPGs with many colorful 
 characters and a wonderful visual design. For the third game, Intelligent Systems decided to make 
 some radical changes to the overall design. Gone are the turns and random battles of RPGs, as platforming 
 is now the main focus. And while the majority of the game is classic 2D levels, there's a new twist: 
 Mario gains the ability to flip the world into a 3D mode, which is a necessary component of finding 
 new paths to progress. Toss in the ability to play the likes of Peach and Bowser, and you have 
 one of the more unique game experiences in recent years. While a few little flaws hold the game 
 back, it easily ranks as one of the top Wii titles available so far and should not be missed by 
 owners of the console.
  
  The game begins with one of the most unexpected events - the wedding of Peach and Bowser. Count 
 Bleck manipulated all the actions leading up to this event, as obviously such a wedding would bring 
 about the apocalypse. Surely enough a rift soon appears and starts to engulf all the countless 
 worlds into nothingness. It appears that destroying a world or two is part of some villain initiation 
 ceremony, as they all seem to be very fond of doing just that. And guess who the fated hero of 
 prophecy is? Said unnamed hero, who has a fondness for red hats, finds himself in Flipside, a town 
 tucked between dimensions, and finds himself on a task to collect Pure Hearts to open paths to 
 new worlds and the final showdown, picking up a few allies on the way.
  
  Super Paper Mario takes the Paper Mario series on a new path, with the action being mostly a 2D 
 platformer with enemies being fought in real time. This obviously brings Mario back to his familiar 
 roots, and as a result the game is very easy to get into. And it's not just grass fields with question 
 blocks either; it includes everything from caves and swimming through the sea to castles and high 
 up in the clouds. With eight chapters and each taking place in its own themed world, there is certainly 
 variety as you progress through the game.
  
  However, the 2D world is only two-thirds of it all. Early in the game, Mario gains the ability 
 to flip the world 90 degrees, allowing him to move through a third dimension for a limited amount 
 of time. Since most enemies are paper thin, most that you see in the 2D world will not appear in 
 3D, and some that do not exist in 2D appear only in 3D. It's not just enemies either - a large 
 barrier in 2D may in fact be paper thin as well and easy to sidestep in 3D. A floor and a ceiling 
 may appear to block you into a dead end, but in 3D you'll see that they are offset and you can 
 hop your way up. There are many points in the game where the 2D world leads to a dead end, but 
 flipping to 3D will open up a path to allow you to move on. It's a great concept and you'll always 
 want to peek into that extra dimension to see if there is any secret tucked away. The only negative 
 is that the controls are a little problematic in 3D. Depth perception is sometimes tricky when 
 trying to stomp an enemy, and the camera only lets you see 3 feet in front of you when you are 
 backtracking.
  
  Mario is not alone on his journey, though. Once you receive allies such as Peach or Bowser, you 
 can switch to them instantly. While none of these characters can travel in the 3D world, they do 
 have their own unique abilities that will be necessary at certain points. Peach can open her umbrella 
 to drift further on jumps. Bowser can breathe fire and has double the attack power of any character, 
 but is rather slow. And that's not all the help Mario gets either, as Pixls help him out as well. 
 These colorful wire-framed beings each grant Mario, or his active ally, a special ability. The 
 butterfly Tippi is always active and serves as his guide. A second Pixl is selectable at any time. 
 One allows Mario to pick up enemies or objects, another is a bomb that blows things up, another 
 lets you swing a hammer, another shrinks you to micro size, and so forth. While some of the offensive 
 Pixls are certainly more useful than others, each of the required ones must be used at least a 
 couple of times to progress through a puzzle. The system adds a nice variety to the gameplay and 
 lets you complete each level as you see fit.
  
  The series does not totally move away from an RPG format, which may end up causing a few minor 
 issues of its own. For one, you gain points just like in the classic Mario 2D platformers, and 
 as you gain certain amounts, the level of all your characters increase. The benefits of each level 
 alternates from gaining 1 extra attack power (or 2 for Bowser) and adding 5 hit points to your 
 maximum. The extra attack ends up being less useful than it sounds, as it is often easy to just 
 bounce off of an enemy continuously until it dies. Hit points also usually only becomes an issue 
 on boss fights. Most enemies only take off a couple of hit points per attack late in the game, 
 which is nothing compared to the upwards of 50 you will have in your pool. Also falling down a 
 bottomless pit places you right before the pit with only one less hit point. Toss in some relatively 
 plentiful restorative items and you will rarely be in danger of dying. Even then, you should have 
 auto-reviving mushrooms and mushrooms that restore many hit points instantly in your inventory. 
 The developers brought back many of the same offensive items as in the previous Paper Mario games, 
 but they are essentially worthless as it is just as easy to repeatedly bounce off an enemy, and 
 the limited inventory space is better used on restorative items. Stylish moves make a return as 
 well - a showboating flip after stomping an enemy to impress an unseen crowd. This is done by shaking 
 the Wii Remote and gains a few extra points. However, the controls are very spotty and often do 
 not register. This may be all for the better as the flips interrupt good strings of stomps on a 
 single enemy, and gaining levels beyond the normal curve have little effect. One can only feel 
 that this mediocre tacked on motion sensing is due to the game being converted from the GameCube 
 to the Wii late in production to bolster the Wii's weak post-launch lineup.
  
  The normal charm of the Paper Mario series returns, but not quite so much as in the previous two 
 games. Yes, there are many wacky and interesting characters and charming subplots that stand up 
 well on their own. However, Super Paper Mario still took a step back relative to its predecessors. 
 Unfortunately there are few friendly characters to interact with, and most of them tend to be generic 
 villagers with similarly generic lines. The ones that do have a unique personality are great, though. 
 One scene where Francis the nerd tries to hit on Peach is definitely one of the best in the series. 
 What's there is great, it's just a little unfortunate there just wasn't as much as in previous 
 games.
  
  As with the other games in the series, Super Paper Mario simply looks great. The character sprites 
 are crisp and colorful, and the worlds, at least in their 2D form, have a great atmosphere around 
 them. Be it in a bright grassland with odd algebra equations in the sky, a pixilated world, or 
 flying through space, each world has its own stylistic charm about it. Unfortunately when you flip 
 to 3D the levels can look pretty sparse and with a lot of empty space. It was hard to avoid given 
 that you're extending a 2D world into 3D, but it definitely is noticeable. However, things look 
 so great in the 2D world, which is where you spend the great majority of your time, that such a 
 lack of content in the 3D world will not bother you too much. The audio is good, but not spectacular. 
 The soundtrack is good but does not stand out, though a few tracks like the remix of the classic 
 Mario theme in the first world is certainly interesting. The standard sound effects do a good job 
 of bringing back nostalgia, from star power (which supersizes you in 8-bit form as well) to using 
 mushrooms and stomping enemies on their heads. There is essentially no voice work used in the game 
 at all, just like the previous Paper Mario games. Some characters have some quick sound effects 
 associated with them, like a shriek or an oh! from Peach, but little else. Perhaps this is for 
 the best, as the text seems to work fine, and some of the characters you run into are so over-the-top 
 that adding voice acting would just make them sound too silly.
  
  Given that the game is essentially a platformer, the 18 hours or so that it takes to complete the 
 story is rather decent. Unfortunately there is a little bit of backtracking involved at points 
 to pad the game length, but they do not go overboard with it. In addition to the main quest, there 
 are a few side quests available, cards to collect, and arcade games to play. There is also not 
 one but two Pits of 100 Trials making their return, which should add a challenge for advanced players 
 looking for more difficulty than the main quest provides.
  
  Super Paper Mario is certainly an enjoyable new take on the series, and the new style will certainly 
 appeal to the masses. The game stands up well on its own, though those that have played previous 
 games in the Paper Mario series may feel like things took a rather slight step backwards. Those 
 new to the series will be able to jump right into the familiar gameplay and likely enjoy what they 
 see. The humor returns, the script is great, many of the characters are likable, and the style 
 and new 3D mechanics are just great. Wii owners should definitely give Super Paper Mario a chance, 
 especially the traditional gamer crowd who may be a little disappointed with the Wii releases lately. 
 At worst, it's a Mario platformer to hold you over until Super Mario Galaxy is released, but it 
 will likely be a lot more than that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajdavis122
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 26, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  There are two major parts to this game: the cut scenes interspersed throughout, and the actual 
 gameplay. First, the gameplay: It seemed to me that the two halves of this game gave me a completely 
 different feeling. The first half, with its great levels and creative use of the 3d-flip skill, 
 was simply astounding. Playing though some of the levels in the original Super Mario Bros. game 
 was really cool, and there were secrets hidden throughout (provided you looked in 3d mode at the 
 right times) . And then came the second half of the game - this is where the game design fell crashing 
 to the ground, very short of what the beginning of the game seemed to promise. The 3d view became 
 almost obsolete for long intervals at a time, and the level design seemed lackluster and boring 
 (namely the samurai level) . Now on to the part that bothered me the most - the storyline and dialogue. 
 Granted, we can't expect all that much from the dialogue in a video game, but it should at least 
 be tolerable. It should be the story that drives me to want to keep playing, and for this game 
 it was the opposite. The story turned into an annoying break between playing the cool levels. Not 
 to mention the ending, which left a sour taste in my mouth and had me wondering if the whole thing 
 was worth it. Was it worth it? Totally. The gameplay was great, and its something that was new 
 and innovative. However, I'm torn between ever wanting to play it again. I had hoped that this 
 would become an instant classic that I would want to play over and over again, but this was just 
 another point in which the game stopped short of my expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenneil4
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 26, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario continues the excellence of the first two games. However, that is where their 
 simliarities end. Super Paper Mario is a platformer with light rpg elements. It is more like super 
 mario world than say a final fantasy. Some people may not like the change but it breathes new life 
 into the series. The controls are great and are spot-on. The 2-d side-scroller look harkens back 
 to the good old days. The wii-mote is even turned sideways to make it feel like a NES controller. 
 Then you find out that you can flip into the 3rd demension and the whole game becomes an innovative 
 success. The ability to flip to 3-D is an awesome way to expand on the hilarious paper mechanics 
 this series is known for. The plot is typical save Pricess Peach. Or is it? In reality, it is a 
 completely new brand of the save the world genre. A certain evil Count is trying to destroy all 
 worlds and it is up to mario and his band of pixls and friends to stop him. The game is set in 
 a alternate demension called flipside. The pixls are tiny ancient creatures who perform familiar 
 tasks such as bombs, ground pounds, and the like. Along with pixls' abilities, Mario will rely 
 on his jumping and his ability to go into the third demension to complete his adventure. On his 
 way, he will team up with some favorites of the Mushroom Kingdom. The game has a great story and 
 it is funny as other Paper Mario games but there is a lot of text and that may turn away some young 
 gamers. The graphics are nice and clean and fit in with the mood well. My only problem is that 
 the game can get on the easy side for seasoned gamers. Other than that, this is a great game for 
 the wii that all mario fans should invest in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pro_gamer12345
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  SPM (Super Papper Mario) is the best game on the WII. I absolutely love this game. The thing that 
 makes the game unique is it's 3D flipping. Say your stuck in one area and if your flip to 3D you 
 could see a new passageway leading to a door etc...
  
  Story: the story is very simple. The worlds are getting destroyed by some dude name Count Bleck 
 and his minions. The game's storyline is original but its good. Gameplay: As soon you put this 
 game in your WII theres like atleast 15 minutes of continous reading. 20 minutes if you inlcude 
 the intro whcih you must cause you won't get some of the story. but the thing is that they talk 
 a little bit too much. I get annoyed myself. Over and over again. You can't really skip the whole 
 talking even if you already went through it. The 3D flipping you use a little too much. I think 
 it's cool and a great new feature but its used a little too much. AS you progress in the game you 
 unlock new stuff like you get new pixls which are soem fairy kind of things that help you along 
 the game and 3 characters which are Luigi, Bowser and Peach. They have each have their own unique 
 ability. Graphics: the graphics fir perfect with this game. It looks pretty cool. I love the graphics 
 and I can't say much about it.
  
  Sound: Even though some levels have nice music none of them are the type that get stuck in your 
 head. Some stuff are pretty cool like the sound effects. Sound is pretty good.
  
  Value: This game is worth every penny you pay for. I absolutely love this game and I always will.
 
  
  Replay Value: I didn't beat this game yet but im pretty sure this game has tons of unlockables. 
 In conclusion I highly recommend it. i love this game. If you are a big mario fan i recommend it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wannweed
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 11, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  when i bought it i didnt suposed that this game will be like this this is a great game buy it ,but 
 i dont have words to say ,only buy it and play all day since i bought it i played all days of the 
 week the grafixs are good , the music its good because its not repetitive and it has a good sound 
 to it , the gameplay its ok cause its like the nes game control and its not difficult , and it's 
 good because you can use mario , peach , bowser and luigi there are 8 worlds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WGR_Darrin
Rating: 9
Date: May 25, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I wanted to write this review much earlier than now. The only problem was I couldn't put the blasted 
 game down.
  
  Super Paper Mario, as is evident by the title, is a throwback to the original Super Mario Bros. 
 games that got everything started, with a few added twists that this reviewer can say make the 
 game even more enjoyable, for the most part.
  
  Without spoiling the storyline, you play as Mario (or one of three other characters) in a side-scrolling 
 adventure that takes you everywhere from Hell (or at least Nintendo's version) to a fanboy's gaming 
 cliche-inspired castle. The humor that is inherent within the Paper Mario series shines forth here, 
 with plenty of in-jokes abounding.
  
  The gameplay isn't just side-scrolling, however. A touch of a button allows Mario to go into 3D, 
 to find hidden doors and pipes. Without a doubt, this is the most useful and needed feature of 
 the game, and you'll be using it a lot. It really adds another layer of depth to the gameplay, 
 if you know what I mean.
  
  While it is a fun (and relatively easy ride) , I do have a couple of complaints: the Wii Remote's 
 functionality isn't really used much in this game. If you jerk the remote up right when you land 
 on an enemy's head, you'll get some extra points, but it's rare that you'll remember to do this 
 during the later stages. You can point the remote at the screen to find hidden doors, and sometimes 
 it's crucial to do this in order to continue, but it's once again forgotten many times.
  
  It's obvious that this game was made for the Gamecube first and foremost, then ported over to the 
 Wii, not that anyone's blaming Nintendo for doing so. Visually, the graphics are virtually identical 
 to the Gamecube's Paper Mario and the Thousand Year Door, which, while it isn't a bad thing, is 
 a bit of a letdown. I'd have loved to see even a minor graphical update for the more powerful Wii.
 
  
  In the end, though, many gamers say it's about the gameplay, and I couldn't agree more in this 
 instance. Super Paper Mario will become your version of oxygen for a while, as it's highly addictive 
 and just fun to play. Wii owners need to get this game NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joson123456
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  Es realmente un juegazo, lo tengo hace 2 semanas y es demasiado bueno. Se lo recomiendo a cualquiera 
 que quiera comprarlo y no este 100% seguro, ademas que tiene una muy buena forma de juego y muy 
 comoda, una muy buena historia, los graficos adecuados del paper mario (es paper mario, por eso 
 no tiene los medios graficos) , el sonido es bueno y en general no tiene nada malo. Bueno, espero 
 que varios lo compren, lo jueguen y disfruten de uno de los mejores juegos que han salido hasta 
 ahora para la nintendo wii. Es lo mejor de lo mejor XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: expert-yeti
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario first stood out to me because there were no other good games for the Wii; I really 
 didnt think it would be one of the best games Ive ever played. But because this game is so hilarious 
 and easy to pick up and play I soon found myself renting it over and over again to see how the 
 story played out. The story in Super Paper Mario is the classic boy loves girl, but loses girl, 
 and soon tries to kill everyone that many games and movies try to copy. But the Mario-twist this 
 game has makes this so-so scenario super-funny. With jokes in almost every sentence of the game, 
 and many video game-related mockeries spewing from the characters, I found myself laughing nonstop 
 at the dialogue that progressed throughout the story. The graphical approach of this game was the 
 ability to switch between 2-D and 3-D at the press of a button, which often reveals hidden paths 
 and enemies. Although it sounds like gimmick, it actually works surprisingly well. The only problem 
 is that Mario is difficult to control in 3-D when you first play the game, but this soon feels 
 natural. This style of graphics may not push the Wii to its limits, but it still looks and plays 
 really well. Super Paper Marios level are each unique and fun to explore. Each containing its 
 on boss that furthers the main story, its fun to see how the levels incorporate the story and 
 tie all the loose ends together. Of course everyones favorite level is probably going to be the 
 remake of the original Mario Bros. game, which is very nostalgic.
  
  While the gameplay, graphics, level design, and story are really interesting, the music seemed 
 to be the best technical part of the game. Being a musician, I really appreciate good game music, 
 and Super Paper Mario has wonderfully composed music. With snippets of old Mario tunes combined 
 with complete new ones, you too will be humming the music to the level you are playing. My personal 
 favorite tune was getting the super star power-up, which makes you MEGA HUGE!!! When you play the 
 game, youll know what Im talking about; thats an awesome tune!
  
  Overall, Nintendo scored big on this game, and Im glad they are still making games that perfectly 
 blend creativity and fun; this game truly defines what gaming should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hpgirlsarehott
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  So we all know Paper Mario is a great game series, right? Well the newest one takes Paper Mario 
 to a whole new level. Mainly because of the addition of the option of switching from the standard 
 2-D frame to a new 3-D world.
  
  Gameplay: Pretty much standard at the beginning, you're in a town and you explore it to prepare 
 for levels in the game. The changes begin in the levels themselves, as they are divided into four 
 different parts. You'll go through them, sometimes just to get to the end, or other times performing 
 a specific quest to go on. The most interesting changes are in the battles. They have reverted 
 back to the SNES games, and you jump on them or some other method of attack to damage them, without 
 turn based RPG attack stages. I personally think it's a good change, since it gives you a better 
 chance of remaining unharmed if you're good enough.
  
  Graphics: They are truly spetacular, in 2-D and 3-D. Not much else to say.
  
  Sound: It's pretty 
 good, and it won't get on your nerves unless you're extremely picky. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hungfar
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  While other Paper Mario games had quite pronounced RPG elements, Super Paper Mario takes the series 
 back to basics. This game is a platformer through and through, and a mighty fine one at that. The 
 traditional 2D gameplay is given a unique and clever twist by letting Mario shift the stages into 
 3D setting up some rather fun and light puzzle solving. Having Peach, Luigi and Bowser as playable 
 characters also mixes things up in several stages but Mario is the one you'll rely on most throughout 
 the game. Presentation-wise the graphic style is cute and just pleasant to look at. Aurally, it 
 features Mario staples and plenty of new music. Super Paper Mario started as a Gamecube title and 
 it's easy to tell. Actual Wii Remote functionality is minimal, but the game really doesn't suffer 
 any for it. Virtually any Wii owner should have a great time with SPM. Highly recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lluiser
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  a classic like new super mario bros its great iits large but the tipe of game its diferent that 
 paper mario (N64) and paper Mario (GC) the grafics are right but this game has the potencial of 
 a Gamecube game but its like a classic interesting and al.
  
  in the game you can controll 34 characters its a wonderfull idea i like to fire the enemis well 
 peach are boring i dont like it and luigi its good but dont tanto than 
 
  The story interesting but in the dialogs are very large and you cant skip it but but but but but 
 but but but but but but but but i liked it and when you grow up its awesfull the game is very good 
 well now i can wait the Mario Galaxy game thats look bigger of the wii games that and The Legend 
 Of Zelda : Twilight Princess that o i forget one the most waiting for all Super Smash Bros Brawl 
 there are liked in the wii games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tondre22
Rating: 8
Date: May 22, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  First off, this game is funny, it's not break dancer kicking little kid in the face funny (youtube 
 it baby) , but it does have its moments. Which include you on a dating show and working in a sweat 
 shop. These moments are great, but it's the other issues that get in the way! For a game on the 
 wii, a simple system, i think i went to the menu at least 300 times in this game for things like 
 character switches, which is just stupid. There is no reason that Mario is the only one who can 
 flip to 3D, besides causing irritation. While the game looks and controls great, it does drag on 
 with the reading and at times, forces you to explore boring sections of the main town looking for 
 a way into the next world. All in all, this game is worth a rental, but shoots is self in the foot 
 way to many times to make it a solid buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Best_yet22
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 20, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  Ok I had this game for a while, in my opinion it is the best in the PM series so far. It's more 
 focused on the platforming elements more than the RPG now.
  
  Pros
  .Still has RPG influence, you level up and you go by HP and stuff.
  
  . Great Art
  
  .Doesnt 
 take it self too seriously
  
  . Intuitive way to play
  
  . Mario hits his Platforming roots, as to say it is his first Sidescroller in years on a home system.
 
  
  .Great Humor
  
  Cons
  
  . Not long enough
  
  . Seems a little bit childish at times
  
  . Some retracking, some repetitive Gameplay.
  
 
  You can play as 4 characters Mario, Peach, Bowser, and Luigi. Each with there own special abilities 
 which adds fun even some puzzle elements. Things like using Bowser fight to like a torch to brighten 
 a room, or Luig's high jump to reach high spots. You also have Tippi and other things called Pixls 
 which give you ablities that you cant have your self.
  
  Examaple
  
  Thudley: gives mario a but pound ability
  
  Cudge: lets Mario use his hammer.
  
  And they 
 all play out in the game as you have to use them to either pass certain points in the game which 
 are impossible without them sometimes.
  
  It really puts the Wii-Mote to work, things like tilt games, and light gun like side games. It 
 has you shaking or point your wii-mote at the screen and turning it in certain directions to get 
 a power up or such.
  
  I say that it is one of the better Wii-games yet, and is a must own for any Wii owners. 9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QueenOfGaming
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 19, 2007 11:43 pm PT
Review:  When I heard Super Paper Mario was coming out I was like who cares I don't like RPG games, when 
 is a sidescroller coming out and then I read the preview on gamespot and found out that it was 
 more of a sidescolling Mario with almost no RPG and I was very excited, but when I saw some game 
 videos I thought it seemed like something I wouldn't want to play, the whole 2d switch to 3d thing 
 seemed like it would be annoying and ruin the gameplay. But I decided to rent the game to see if 
 I liked it and I was wrong about the 3d aspect, it actually works very well in the game. Super 
 Paper Mario has a good storyline, great graphics, lots of humor, and is fun to play. I like that 
 you don't have to use the Wii remote that much, for the most part you just turn the Wii remote 
 sideways and use it as a basic controller, I like that, sometimes you just want a good old fashioned 
 controller. The game is a lot of fun and you just want to keep playing. The only problem I had 
 is the tediousness of having to place the hearts you collect at the end of each chapter in some 
 hidden stone statue somewhere in the surrounding area beyond the quest chapter doors, I'd rather 
 just keep the gameplay going. Anyone who loves Mario games and has been looking for more of an 
 old fashioned Mario game that is in the current should pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 18, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  Does it make me a bad person to say that I've never played any of the Paper Mario or Mario RPG 
 games? I suppose not, but I've probably missed out on some of the best Mario games in the franchise. 
 I recently picked up Super Paper Mario, the third game in the series, and discovered that it's 
 a great re-visioning of what it means to be a Mario game.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The story in Super Paper Mario is that Princess Peach has once against kidnapped, but this time 
 by a new villain Count Bleck. Peach is then forced to marry Bowser, the result of which creates 
 a Chaos Heart which is said will destroy all worlds. Heavy stuff for a Mario game.
  
  Most of the game is played from a traditional 2D view. Later in the game, Mario gets the ability 
 to flip from 2D to 3D. This is the main feature of the game, and it works exceptionally well. This 
 allows the game to have all sorts of unique puzzles and hidden items.
  
  Some of the RPG elements from past Paper Mario games have been removed in favor of going to a more 
 traditional platform style of gameplay. For example, gone are the turn-based battles of past games. 
 Now enemies are battled and defeated in real-time. Most often by jumping on them. This might upset 
 some long-time series fans, but overall I think this helps speed up the pace of the game.
  
  Like past games, you can also control several other characters, and switch between them on 
 the fly. Also new are the pixels. These characters assist Mario in his quest by giving him special 
 abilities to overcome challenges and enemies.
  
  The game is played by holding the remote sideways just like a NES controller. You use the D-pad 
 to control Mario's movements. This works well, but I wish the game took more advantage of the Wii's 
 motion sensitive controller. Instead it's just limited to pointing it at the screen to find hidden 
 items, and shaking it to earn extra exp when stomping on enemies.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics are undeniably sharp, and detailed. The unique visual style of the series is present, 
 but better animated. It especially looks good in HD. Everything about the visual presentation oozes 
 style. Because of the 2D and 3D nature of the game, you'll often find areas that allow you to go 
 into the background to solve puzzles or find hidden areas.
  
  The only downside to the visuals is that the levels look better in 2D than 3D. When flipping to 
 3D the levels tend to lose their visual style, and just look odd in spots. When you get a star 
 your character transforms into a giant 8-bit version of themselves. This doesn't look very good, 
 though. I'd wish they had stuck with the normal cartoon style for the characters in this mode.
 
  
  SOUND
  This is another area where Super Paper Mario shines. As you'd expect, the music is well done, and 
 contains remixes of the classic tunes from Super Mario Bros. The sound effects also have the same 
 style and appeal of the graphics. Which helps add to the lighthearted nature of the game. The only 
 lacking area is that there are no voice-overs at all. Considering this is an RPG with a lot of 
 text, it's not uncommon to have no voice-overs, but it's still a feature I find missing.
  
  VALUE
  On your first play it will probably take you about 15+ hours to beat the game. Most of 
 that time will be spent reading character dialog, as there is an absolute ton of it. Plus with 
 no way to skip a scene, it can be a chore to just get to the next level. This also makes it a pain 
 to start a new game as it can easily take 20 minutes to wade through the opening scenes to get 
 to the first level.
  
  The main quest is great, and very entertaining. The dialog is well written, and there are some 
 scenes in the game with are sure to become classics. The Bowser and Peach wedding comes to mind. 
 There are also numerous side-quests, and once you beat the game you are given the option to go 
 back to Flip-town, the main hub of the game. From there you can revisit levels to find secrets, 
 and finish up side-quests.
  
  Super Paper Mario is an instant classic. It moves away from the more traditional RPG elements from 
 past games, but this is a good move. The game is very entertaining, and a blast to play. If you're 
 even remotely interested in the Mario series, you owe it to yourself to pick this game up. You 
 wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stefonte
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 17, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  I can't beleive I am saying this!!! I own all three next gen systems and I play games 24/7. It 
 took me a few days to open the wrapper because I was sure that I was going to be disappointed. 
 WRONG!!! This has to be the most original game out there and its MARIO which makes it 10 times 
 as sick. A Mario RPG, Side Scrolling, 2D, 3D, imagination wonderland. I played it for 4 hours before 
 putting it down. THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE FOR Wii OWNERS. I was disappointed with Wii PLAY and 
 WARIO, and RABBIDS, but this game just restored my wii confidense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sammy_m20
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 17, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Being a fan of the previous Super Paper Mario title, The Thousand Year Door, i was thoroughly surprised 
 at the way this game harmonized with the Wii controller and created a perfect blend of creativity 
 and innovativeness. I was actually very glad at how this game turned out, and i loved how they 
 mixed RPG elements and how they gave you the control of flipping through the various 2d and 3d 
 dimensions. I also was intrigued at how many secret passages and rooms there were from flipping 
 into different dimensions, which took me a while to play through again until i found all of the 
 sundry amount of items throughout the different stages. I thought the creativity of the Pixels 
 was also sweet. Overall this was a great buy for the Wii and i would suggest it to almost anyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GabuEx
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 16, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Let's get this out of the way right now: if you're expecting Paper Mario and Thousand Year Door 
 all over again, this game isn't for you. It's has Paper Mario in the title, but it retains only 
 the barest essentials of an RPG, that being the idea of HP, a form a currency, and experience (or 
 points in Super Paper Mario) that leads to levels up. All fighting is done in real-time and in 
 the field; there are no encounters (well, almost none - I won't give away what I mean here) . This 
 game is much better classified as action/adventure than RPG .
  
  That said, however, if you're looking for a good game, this is, nonetheless, certainly that.
 
  
  The general idea of this game is that you, as Mario, are whisked away to the town of Flipside by 
 this butterfly creature named Tippi after a mysterious figure who calls himself Count Bleck attacks 
 Bowser's castle and steals (yes, steals) everyone inside. In Flipside, from a sage called Merlon, 
 you learn that Count Bleck has started the wheels in motion for the destruction of everything. 
 Well, that's not good. So it's up to you and three others (Peach, Bowser, and Luigi - no shockers 
 here) to go and save the world.
  
  Along the way, you'll run into things called Pixls . They are quirky little things who each grant 
 you one power - though you can only use one at a time - and who are named according to what they 
 do for you (e. g., one named Thoreau - throw , that is - enables you to grab stuff and throw it) . 
 In addition, the butterfly who took you to Flipside is also a Pixl who is with you at all times 
 (well, at most times) , who can give you information about stuff when you point the Wiimote at them.
 
  
  The gameplay is much akin to the good ol' days of Super Mario Bros. You hold the Wiimote sideways 
 to play the game, use the D-pad to move, press 2 to jump, and press 1 to use the power of the Pixl 
 you have with you. The A button is also used to flip from 2D to 3D when Mario is the guy you're 
 playing as. By flipping through dimensions, you can see things such as secret passages or treasure 
 chests that were behind other environmental objects when in 2D mode. It makes for an interesting 
 take on things, although you can only stay in 3D mode for a limited time before your stay hurts 
 you - I never did figure out why they did this.
  
  The graphics haven't changed hardly at all from the old Paper Mario games. So the result is that 
 if you liked the graphics from the old Paper Mario games, you'll like the graphics in this game, 
 and similarly if you didn't. It's not super-detailed, but then again, it never was meant to. It 
 gets the job done quite well of conveying a cartoony, playful setting.
  
  The game is very much into stumping you with puzzles and tasks that require you to hunt for things, 
 so if you dislike that sort of stuff, you may find playing through Super Paper Mario frustrating, 
 as it happens quite frequently. Some I admittedly found kind of tedious, but fortunately the ones 
 that are especially so are quite few and far between, and are quickly forgotten once you're done 
 with them.
  
  All in all, Super Paper Mario is quite a lengthy game that is certainly worth a look for anyone 
 who liked the first two, and also for people who enjoy this sort of game in general. It's not perfect, 
 and there were places I had a few minor issues with, but the bottom line is that it's nonetheless 
 fun, and in the end, that's what one truly remembers about a game after one finishes playing it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterBlade7123
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 16, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I finished this game on the 11th but didn't feel like typing it till now.
  
  Super Paper Mario is about the last owner of a mysterious book. Many want to glance at the book 
 to see their future. But every person who look at the book never found happiness. The book became 
 known as the Dark Prognosticus and was sealed away never to be look at again. Now this guy name 
 Count Bleck REMEMBER Count Bleck u will see this name ALOT and he say his name all the time! Forces 
 Peach to marry bowser to get the Chaos Heart (which the dark prognosticus fortold) to destroy the 
 world and make a new one for him and his pals. (so it seems) So everyone get sucked in a portal 
 and the game starts. Now its up to Mario to save Princess Peach, Bowser and his koopa kin, and 
 Luigi. CAN HE DO IT? come on u know the answer to this. It seems their is a Light Prognostious 
 made to counter the Dark Prognostious. And guess what Mario is the hero of the Light Prognostious. (like 
 oh my god Becky I didn't see that coming) Mario gets help by things called pixals the main pixl 
 is name Tippi an Butterfly shaped pixl that used to be human was seriously injured and of a short 
 moment away from death Merlon had to turn her ito a pixl and to add on she doesn't remember anything 
 about her past. Over all the story was amazing best Paper Mario ever you still have to read but 
 if you play FFCC (FInal Fantasy Crystal Chronicles) and pass Paper Mario you'll be fine. It's still 
 Paper Mario no more hit a enemy battles which suitted just fine to me. If you like the Pass Paper 
 Mario or haven't play any Paper Mario b4 do it now best in series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaakti123
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 15, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably my favorite game for my Wii. It is highly entertaning and is a must have 
 for all wii owners. The graphics may be critizised, but I think that the cartoony look makes the 
 game its own. Also, the dialouge is very funny. As for the storyline, is very fun. a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a that was so i could get 100 words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rumor960
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 14, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  i am not going to waste time the game was great. The comedy elements on top of the inventive use 
 of both the wii-mote as an NES style was well done and i only had one problem with the controls 
 and that was a hardware problem . gameplay was fascinating with the use of both a 2D and a 3D space. 
 my only ONLY complaint was that it started slow and the if you play around like i did you will 
 find yourself having to restart if you are asked a question. The game is some what simple and the 
 puzzles take little time and brain cells to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 14, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Many likely remember Paper Mario as the last truly great game for the Nintendo 64 back in 2000. 
 That game was absolutely packed with charming plot, memorable characters, and inventive spins on 
 traditional role-playing mechanics that made it a true classic. Its Gamecube sequel was similarly 
 great, continuing the traditions begun by its predecessor. Perhaps the most distinctive thing about 
 Super Paper Mario for the Wii is that it discards most of the Paper Mario conventions while still 
 creating a game that, at its heart, captures a similar zeal. Thats not to say all of its changes 
 are for the better; the disconnect between the game and its story is heightened from past entries, 
 and sometimes it seems like the game doesnt quite know what it wants to be. But dont let that 
 stop you from experiencing a genuinely interesting mixture of genres, as well as one of the better 
 Wii games.
  
  As we join Mario, resting at home with Luigi, we learn a shocking truth that really sets Super 
 Paper Mario apart from the series prior. Princess Peach has been kidnapped. What? Were you expecting 
 something different? OK, well to be fair, when the duo go to take down Bowser, we learn that hes 
 just as mad as everyones favorite plumbers; turns out he was just about the kidnap Peach, but 
 someones beat him to the draw. This all adds up to a completely new villain and a storyline that 
 follows in the series tradition by having you collect ancient relics throughout a series of chapters 
  this time, youll be collecting Pure Hearts instead of Power Stars. Thankfully, the series remains 
 relevant to all ages with a child-friendly story with a good message and plenty of clever touches 
 and some terrific dialogue that make it palpable to an older crowd.
  
  In terms of its gameplay, however, Super Paper Mario is very different from the games before it. 
 While the first two games in the series were role-playing games that added in a little platforming 
 here and there, Super Paper Mario flips that formula around, giving us a game thats essentially 
 a platformer with role-playing styled features. You must backtrack to solve puzzles, earn experience 
 points, keep an eye on your HP gauge, and so on. But at the outset, playing Super Paper Mario is 
 as easy as hopping around, breaking bricks and bopping enemies on the head. Holding the Wii remote 
 sideways (no Nunchuck for this one) , the game even controls a lot like the original Mario games, 
 with the directional pad handling movement and the 2 button for jumps.
  
  Of course, things get a touch more complicated than that. The biggest new addition to Super Paper 
 Mario is the ability to flip dimensions with Mario, an ability you get early on and will be using 
 almost constantly until the games closing credits. Pressing the A button cause Mario to flip 
 into the third dimension, allowing you to view the classically designed platforming stages from 
 a new perspective. If for example you reach a pipe thats too high for Mario to jump past, chances 
 are you can flip into 3D and simply use your newfound perception of depth to walk around it. And 
 when you flip back to 2D, youll be on the other side. The potential of this flipping mechanic 
 seems pretty mind-blowing at first, and the possibilities of it are great, extending to tons of 
 different puzzles that make clever use of it. There are plenty of moments early on where youll 
 smack yourself on the head for not thinking to flip sooner, but during the games second half, 
 it begins to run out of tricks. Eventually youll get used to the visual cues and know exactly 
 when you should be in what dimension. So while the flipping can sometimes be a bit obvious, its 
 a fun and clever addition regardless.
  
  More variety also comes in the form of new playable characters. Instead of collecting companions 
 and selecting one to follow you like in previous games, youll be actively switching out Mario 
 for franchise standbys Princess Peach and Bowser (as well as an equally enjoyable late arrival 
 in the game) . As you might expect, youll need to switch to characters at special times to use 
 their unique abilities. Peach can glide using her parasol and clear large gaps between platforms 
 and Bowser can spit fire, as well as being an all-around good choice for dealing damage; his attacks 
 are twice as powerful as Mario or Peachs. Since only Mario can flip dimensions, though, youll 
 find yourself sticking with him the most.
  
  Its unfortunate that Super Paper Mario doesnt give any room for customization with your characters; 
 you wont be earning any additional weapons or badges like in the other two games, leveling up 
 will either boost your HP by 5 or raise your attack by 1, and all of the characters level up together. 
 This cut down way of dealing with character development lets you focus on all the hopping around 
 youll be doing, but there are definitely times where the game feels oversimplified. This is especially 
 true in the combat; with nothing to do but hop on enemies or give them a dose of Bowsers fiery 
 breath, most enemies are easily dispatched and dont put up much of a fight.
  
  Your other set of companions, Pixls, are a little more creative. Pixls are small, cute little creatures 
 that are made up of tiny colored shape outlines. Youll gain these companions fairly regularly 
 throughout the game, and theyll help Mario and company by offering up their abilities to you. 
 Thoreau, for example, will let Mario pick up and throw enemies, while Carrie will, as her name 
 suggests, carry you over hazardous elements like spiked floors. Youll be able to have one Pixl 
 of your choice following you, as well as Tippi, who gives you information on anything around you 
 if you point at it with the Wii remote.
  
  When you put it all together, Super Paper Mario becomes an interesting jumble of gameplay thats 
 not quite like anything else. Although your adventure is typically in 2D, each level is littered 
 with alternate pathways that extend in both directions, as well as a fair amount of backtracking. 
 The non-linear design of these platforming levels is a big achievement, and they feel great to 
 walk through. And although a bit of the magic dissolves when the games sleights of hand begin 
 to become familiar to you in its latter half, by then youll have a wide assortment of Pixls and 
 characters that youll enjoy having to cycle through to get yourself ahead in the game. The games 
 bosses in particular, while easily beaten, require you to switch up your Pixls frequently. There 
 are also minimal but fun applications of the Wii remotes gyroscope, like shaking it around or 
 positioning it in different ways to activate items. The timing-based portions of the previous games 
 combat, where youd need to press A after hitting an enemy to score extra hits, is replicated 
 here by shaking the remote. Its safe to say that you definitely havent played something exactly 
 like Super Paper Mario before.
  
  Problem is, though, that the bridge between playing the game and watching the story unfold is frustratingly 
 jagged. As stated, Super Paper Mario has a great story thats full of quirky and memorable characters. 
 However, since all of the story sequences are crammed in-between chapters of gameplay and are quite 
 lengthy, you may find yourself becoming bored and restless. Like other Paper Mario games, the script 
 here is quite chatty, and when taken in for twenty or more minutes at a time with no breaks, it 
 can get a little much. The romance subplot in particular feels tired and cloying. The story definitely 
 has a positive impact on the game  itd just be nice to have it balanced out a bit more.
  
  Graphically, Super Paper Mario started life as a Gamecube game, although from viewing the ultra-sharp, 
 crisp, and vividly colored visuals, its tough to notice. The game uses the series effective mix 
 of simple three-dimensional backdrops with colorful, paper-thin characters, and the effect is still 
 charming today. The game also adds in a bunch of other artistic tweaks; each world is now themed 
 graphically. Lineland uses pronounced inking that outlines everything in the environment, while 
 another is made up of tiny squares. There are also the star power-ups from the original Mario games 
 that make you invulnerable for a time. In Super Paper Mario, they inflate you to mammoth size and 
 turn you into an original 8-bit sprite. These kinds of great-looking effects make the game even 
 more artistically bent than its predecessors. The only real problem with the visuals is a lack 
 of detail in the 3D view. While the backdrops are bright and full of life in 2D, theyre typically 
 reduced to a flat field with not a whole lot in between in 3D; things often feel a lot more barren 
 in this perspective.
  
  The audio is good, with a soundtrack full of off-the-wall dissonance, but overall this game feels 
 a bit too quiet. As with the other Paper Mario games, there is no voice acting; text scrolls by 
 with a lonely fluttering noise. Aside from the occasional grunt from your characters, theres not 
 much else to the sound design. Considering the game has so much personality, its odd that the 
 audio doesnt stand out more.
  
  Super Paper Mario is certainly a step in a different direction for the series, but is it better? 
 Well, it is and it isnt. In a lot of ways, the platforming framework with RPG elements is loads 
 of fun, and mixed with Pixls and the ability to flip the environment, its definitely an interesting 
 play. The clumping together of the storyline and the games relative ease, on the other hand, arent 
 so much fun. Although youll occasionally wish for more of a challenge and less chit-chat, the 
 end result is a great game that definitely lives up to the pedigree of the series, and most Wii 
 owners would do well to check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MFCocca
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 14, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  For the last couple of days I have spent 5 hours playing this ultimate hybrid of a game. My initial 
 impressions, Pretty damn good.
  
  Graphics - If you have read my other reviews, I really don't get hung up too much on graphics, 
 with that being said, this game has the best visuals for any Wii game that I have played so far. 
 (Other games I've played included Zelda, SSX, Trauma Center, Madden, Tiger Woods.) The visuals 
 are very clean and simple, no clutter or anything to winder gameplay. Good enough for me.
  10
  
  Sound - The sound is your typical Mario fare. You've heard one Mario game you've heard 
 them all. The music to me is very forgettable, nothing really memorable sound wise to me. One gripe 
 though, I wish there were more voice acting and less reading.
  7
  
  Gameplay - This is where the game separates itself, in good ways and bad. First the good ways. 
 I am a real sucker for any game that can incorporate any kind of RPG element to it without it being 
 too complicated. This game has exactly what I'm looking for. There is an RPG element and it's not 
 too complicated to play. Next there are the puzzles, which are fun but not too difficult. The characters 
 and storyline are very fun, I enjoy them a lot. I enjoy games that don't take themselves too seriously, 
 good job Nintendo. Finally there is difficulty. I'm at the beginning of chapter 3 and I have lost 
 a total of 5 hp combined. This game seems to have its difficulty setting too low at this point. 
 I really hope it gets harder or it is not going to be a very pleasurable playing experience. I 
 think this is due to the part that this game isn't really a platformer or an RPG game, being that 
 they only scratch the surface of both genres you only get a a hint of difficulty and engrossment. 
 8
  
  Take my opinion for what it's worth. Hope you enjoyed or at least found this helpful. Peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyofinkl
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 13, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  The first thing I have to say is that personally, I liked Paper Mario: TTYD on the Gamecube more 
 than this game. The RPG gameplay felt better for me than the platforming elements of this game 
 and I enjoyed the storyline more also. That being said, this game is still a great game and seeing 
 from the Wii's currently thin choice of games, this game should stand out above the others. The 
 game is longer than you'd expect and it is a lot of fun thanks to some great innovative scenes 
 and classic platforming gameplay. However it is a thin line between innovative and annoying and 
 this game goes back and forth. Many times, especially in between chapters, you'll find yourself 
 with no clues whatsoever on where to find what you need. The graphics for this game in 2D is phenomenal 
 and clean, however the 3D graphics are a little unpolished. You can see some sloppy visuals in 
 the 3D mode that is nowhere to be found in 2D. Still, this game is an extremely enjoyable game 
 that I would tell any Wii owner to go out and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigcalkenobi
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 12, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  This is another additon to the already awesome and unnique Paper Mario Series. This games truely 
 maintains the old school gameplay, and still adds quite a bit to it. The gameplay is your basic 
 sidescrolling Mario. Yo9u run and jump. The only thing that is a bit different with the classic 
 part of it is that there is a healthbar instead of just getting hit a couple of times. In addition 
 to the classic gameplay, you gete pixls, similar to partners in the past Paper Mario Games, and 
 they each have a unique ability. Also you can flip from 2d to 3d which a pretty cool new feature. 
 You can experience classic Mario in 3d. To add even more there are exact replicas of levels from 
 the original mario and its really cool to turn to 3d and see what everything is like in 3d.
  
  The graphics are pretty good. Even though this is originally GC game, it uses a really interesting 
 artistic style similar to the other 2 Paper Mario games. There is more color, more things going 
 on and everything is more detailed. Then you can view everything in 3d and everthing look really 
 cool.
  
  the weakness of the gameis the sound. The sound really isn't bad, but it really isnt great either. 
 The sound effects are pretty cool, but the music is really just mediocre. then there is partial 
 voice acting, which is ok I suppose since the series was never really meant to have voice acting. 
 The only down side to this is there is a ton of text. Most of the writing is really good and really 
 funny, but there is entirely too much of it. An example is the opening cutscene, that will take 
 between 10 and 20 minutes to get through depending on how fast you read. It is great and brilliant 
 wrighting, but Its almost like reading a book at times.
  
  This is a must have for Wii owners. Its not really a system seller like Zelda, but it is an awesome 
 game that any wii owner should definitly try to get. You'll get your money's worth out of the game 
 for sure. It'll take around 20 hours to finish the main story alone. Then there are tons of extras 
 to collect after you beat the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chomp12341234
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 12, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  it has a really good story line and it's fun what they say is hilarious like this one boss battle 
 with a nerd gecko lizard thing. The controls are easy but the game is just the right difficulty. 
 You have to read allot but like i said it's realy funny. I'm on the last level but every thing 
 before that was great. well that is preaty much itso its a great game you should buy it. and with 
 that i say bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye byebye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye 
 bye bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psponcho
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  I think this is my best game of wii , when i bought it i didnt suposed that this game will be like 
 this this is a great game buy it but i dont have words to say of it only buy it and play all days 
 since i bought it i played all days of the week the grafics are good , the music its good cause 
 its not repetitive and its a good sound , the gameplay its ok cause its like the nes game control 
 and its not difficult , and its good because you can use mario , peach , bowser and luigi and there 
 are 8 worlds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Wii
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 11, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Well Wii has had a great run so far, aside from the fact that many of the current titles are sub-quality, 
 but Super Paper Mario will deffently supprise you in good ways if your sick of bad Wii games.
 
  
  As you may have read from the offical review the game is a platformer/RPG, and you've probably 
 noted that it has more Super Mario in it than it has Paper Mario as this time around its more action 
 based.
  
  The game has solid, well done 2D graphics, though I will add that they could have added more detail 
 to the whole experiance. At times I felt that the world was to spartan in its artistic style (though 
 I understand they were going for that look... I just felt that in this day and age with games like 
 Castlevania looking great in 2D that they would've done similar ammounts of pixilated detail) . 
 Secondly the 3D aspect of the game is great, and the 2D transilates very well into 3D, again the 
 3D aspect could have used a bit more detail, and what would have been neat is if the world didn't 
 look like a path in 3D mode, but rather looked like a fully 3D world that extended a bit more, 
 but I do understand why they went the way they did.
  
  The gameplay is very solid, and will keep you going for about 19-21 hours (depending on how experianced 
 of a player you are) if your younger and this is one of your first games I'd expect it to last 
 about 21-24+ hours. With that said if your short on cash you'll have to ask if 21 hours of gameplay 
 is worth the $50 you'll need to put down on it.
  
  The only major downside I had with gameplay though was that Mario has a timer on his 2D-3D flip 
 skill, it would have been nice to have had more time to explore the 3D world, and realy soak it 
 up... but with only around 30 seconds to do that its often a rushed experiance.
  
  All in all Super Paper Mario is a great game that diserves the attention of the millions of Mario 
 fans. If you played the NES mario games and want to relive that experiance in an all new way than 
 this is the game for you. Now if only Nintendo would release some solid Wii games that wern't made 
 for Gamecube. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwe4ever_in05
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 11, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  This game has everything it has some puzzle that if you think hard enough, and really think then 
 you can solve it.
  
  I think the addtion of haveing not just Mario and a bunch of character you don't know, to character 
 you do know like Bowser and Peach, you really also get a feel for the game as it moves along, I 
 think if this would have something else................... I don't know what it would need, but 
 maybe I'm wrong and it doesn't need anything?
  
  This whole game is about you as Mario have find these pure hearts that come is the colors of the 
 Rainbow, and it you job with you Pixi friends job to get them all to stop the evil Count Bleck 
 from destroying the Universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SimonHukilau
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  There are two kinds of people in this world: those who have played Super Mario and those who... 
 well, I guess everyone has played Super Mario at one point or another. This game does not represent 
 a significant deviation from the typical Mario experience everyone is used to, but there are a 
 few quirks that make the game worth playing for those who have grown weary with Nintendo's diminutive 
 plumber.
  
  Most noticeably, this game implements the Paper Mario style, which is a treat to look at. The 3D 
 aspects of the Paper Mario series comes into play with the ability to flip between 2D and 3D at 
 will. This gameplay element lends itself to a certain amount of tongue-in-cheek humor poking fun 
 at the classic 2D world of Mario. (The 3D renditions of Mario's obstacles will change the way you 
 look at the original 2D games.)
  
  If the gameplay isn't enough to milk your guernsey, the half-baked story will satiate any lingering 
 desires for entertainment.
  
  If you have a Wii, get the game. You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaul
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 10, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Super paper Mario is the revolution of the Mario series of gaming. The new Series releases never 
 before dimensions into the video game world. Switching from 2-D to 3-D is just amazing. Not only 
 that. This is any Mario gamer's fan game. This is a addiction in its self while playing. You just 
 want to figure out where is this going to end up next, How long until i level up again. So on and 
 so forth. I think people will absolutely pick this game up over some VC games any day. I even chose 
 this over Spider Man 3 for the Wii. i am glad that I did also. So check it out. Try it, and then 
 buy it even. Just get addicted to the dimension of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: froggut198
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 10, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Paper Mario, the first thing that comes to my mind when I think of those words is and awesome RPG 
 game based off of the world of Mario. Well, if you are looking for an RPG game then DO NOT get 
 this.
  
  I bought this game knowing that it was a platformer with RPG Elements. What RPG elements are in 
 this game you might say? Well, you can have items that for the most part you will never use unless 
 you suck or at one of the harder bosses. Also, when you kill an enemy your score goes up and after 
 it goes up enough, you level up which either A.) Increases your health or B.) Increases your attack. 
 You don't have a choice as to which you want to increase. In the past Paper Mario games, you could 
 increase HP, FP (basically Mana) and BP (used to equip new badges.) Oh yeah, thats another thing, 
 no badges to do ultra cool moves with and there are no more partners. Instead, you can change between 
 Bowser, Peach, Mario and Luigi and you get these annoying things called Pxls. Well, now that I 
 told you the things that make this game nothing like Paper Mario, lets get on with the actual gameplay 
 and the actual game itself.
  
  The game really isn't all that bad. It has classic Mario gameplay mixed with a little Paper Mario 
 gameplay. It has levels that take little time to complete and it has some puzzles that usually 
 lead you to go 3d and its solved. Since it has classic Mario gameplay and you have alot of health, 
 the game is very easy to beat. It might take you a little over an hour or two per Chapter mainly 
 because of the cutscenes that don't really matter because the game's story is just boring. The 
 only use of the wiimote is pointing at the screen to show hidden objects that are extremely obvious 
 that they are there.
  
  The graphics are okay but they don't seem to be as sharp or as colorful as the PM: TTYD but that 
 could be because I had an HD tv now so its in widescreen but no progressive ( I don't have the 
 component cables.)
  
  The music is not as catchy as the past games but its alright I suppose.
  
  The game is $50 
 new so value is average and it is better than some of the other Wii games out there of the same 
 price tag.
  
  The game isn't terrible but Nintendo would have been alot better off making a REAL Paper Mario 
 Triqual. I mean, RPG Mario games are the best and they had to ruin the series. Hopefully they will 
 wise up and make another RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shillster89
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  this game is one of the best wii games so far at its release. a medium length adventure with many 
 side quests, this game surpasses the others of the series but is different because it is a platformer, 
 not an RPG like the other papaer mario games. with many great characters and extras, this game 
 is definitly worth the money. Being able to switch in between 2-D and 3-D is great and having many 
 different pixls with different skills adss some nice gameplay. All in all i think that this will 
 be one of those great-selling, classic wii games that many gamers will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarcusMaximus04
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 10, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  When I got Super Paper Mario I already knew (from reading reviews) to expect a fun, wacky game. 
 What I didn't expect was an amazingly immersive storyline and the addictiveness of its gameplay. 
 The storyline is probably one of the best I've seen in a game (almost on level with the Legend 
 of Zelda series) . Basically it follows Mario and his new friend, the Pixl Tippy as they try to 
 stop the evil Count Bleck from destroying all worlds, following the prophesy of an ancient book. 
 On a side, somewhat mysterious (although I caught on pretty quickly) plotline, the cutscenes between 
 chapters follow the mysterious Blumiere and Timpani, a young couple who immediately fall in love 
 but run into some major problems. The game does an extremely good job of tying everything together 
 and despite the wacky commentary, manages to make a serious and very good story.
  As for the gameplay, most of the game is extremely easy (although the later levels get much harder) 
 but manages not to lose your attention and is still very fun. You can expect frequent conversations 
 and as another reviewer reported cutscenes , but I feel that these greatly add to the immersive 
 story. Honestly, I've seen many great games have large amounts of cutscenes (see Gears of War) and 
 in this case it works wonderfully.
  All in all this is a great game and definately a must-have for any wii owner. And for those of 
 you who don't have a wii yet, get one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ax_prime_basic
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 9, 2007 10:56 pm PT
Review:  So... the Wii has been out for a few months, and now that the hype has subsided slightly, it's 
 time to bring out the great games. Or.. that's what should have happened with Super Paper Mario, 
 a game that has some really great moments, but is hampered by too many flaws in basic game design 
 to recommend it.
  
  If you've played any of the other Paper Mario games, you'll know what to expect: Wacky 2D gameplay, 
 actiony-rpg elements, and a humorous script. Well, you'll be getting some wacky 2D gameplay, some 
 actiony-rpg elements (more action than previous entries, actually) , but the humorous script?? Well... 
 more on that in a minute.
  
  The problem with Super Paper Mario is that it tries to be much more focused on the action by making 
 the game play less like an rpg and more like an old-school Mario Bros. game. This is a great, great 
 idea... but the execution is botched by one major flaw: more cutscenes than any rpg I've played 
 in years. I reached the end of the 3rd game world in roughly 5 hours, and it only takes roughly 
 10 minutes to clear any particular level. Given that there are only 4 levels per world... that 
 means that about 1 hour per world was spent watching cutscenes and wandering around in town (trust 
 me... not gameplay) . This may have been acceptable in previous entries, such as the superlative 
 Superstar Saga, but here it's slow, tedius, and downright frustrating.
  
  This is primarily because the script is so weak. While it has a few somewhat humorous moments, 
 most of it is worthless diatribe that is obviously intended to pad out the length of what should 
 surely be a much shorter game experience. This dilutes it, to the point of being so watered down 
 you want to just spit it out because it is unpleasant at best. Not since the infamous Xenosaga 
 have I experience a greater ratio of Cutscenes/Gameplay. When your script sucks, this is very, 
 VERY bad.
  
  This is most unfortunate, because the ways the developers have implemented the 2D-to-3D thing are 
 all really clever and fun... which brings the score up a titch. From the way they put objects into 
 the background, to the way they hide otherwise-invisible passageways from you, it's all really 
 nifty. But you are robbed of control so often it just can't help but be frustrating.
  
  So we're left with little more than a half hour of truly neat gameplay for every hour of cutscenes 
 and tiresome dialogue we travel through. Where does that score ultimately lead us to? Guess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefireflower99
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 9, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Though some Paper Mario fans might shocked at the changes it is one of the best games of all time 
 in my book. The story begins with our heroic plumbers at there house bored. suddenly Toad runs 
 waving its arms like an idiot (lol) and tells Mario and Luigi the Princess is kidnapped... again. 
 Bowser always takes her away so the bros. go to the castle. about the time they got there Bowser 
 was just telling his minions they're going to attack and kidnap princess Peach (lol) . Then the 
 Mario Bros. come to the castle telling Bowser his front gate was open (lmao) . Then this guy count 
 Bleck appears and takes everybody and leaves Mario out cold. Now Mario must stop Bleck from destroying 
 all worlds. Very early in the game Mario obtains the flip. He can now see a whole new world in 
 3-D instead of 2-D. The rest is just platforming and RPG elements. Boss fights are easy but the 
 story is Amazing. It might not sound like it at first but towards the end it will get much better. 
 This is one wii game you don't want to miss out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skine99
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 8, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is a fun game that will have you satisfied on all levels. You have a selection 
 of characters and pixls in this platformer RPG mix.
  
  Gameplay- Back to basics may be one of the best moves ever in general, but in Super Paper Mario 
 it was fantastic. It brought you back to your favorite platforming but threw in the twist with 
 the 3-D, Pixls, and characters. You can also get extra experience points by shaking remote at key 
 moments but I find this hard and really affects your gameplay for the worse since you are concentrating 
 less on survival. Pointing the remote at the screen is fine except sometimes you lose your pointer 
 because you go from holding sideways too vertically; this is a small minor flaw though. Shaking 
 the remote to wake up from sleep potions and other effects is a little unfair. I always find the 
 very second I'm about to revive I'm hit by an enemy. They made the system too close to the mark 
 . But beside few flaws controls are fine.
  
  Graphics- Admire the hand drawm splendor! Although from a technical standpoint it's not greatest, 
 its beauty is unsurpassable because it doesn't need to focus on messing up since everything seems 
 to be drawn on a computer. Some 3-D environments or objects look a little fuzzy but nothing to 
 upset you or even nag at you.
  
  Sound- Some cute sound effects and little remixes of old mario songs but nothing special. Although 
 many of the sounds are recycled from past Paper Mario games, you really shopuldn't get in a bunch 
 over it. A lack of voice acting doesn't help the game but it doesn't hurt either. There's lots 
 of text in all and if you had that much voice acting it'd be a little aggrivating hearing so many 
 voices. The best little music clip is the little beat-box whenever you get a pixl. It's cool.
 
  
  Value- Although the actual storyline should take you about 20 hours to complete you can throw in 
 an extra 10-20 by trying to beat the Pits of 100 Trials and getting some of the bonus pixls. Even 
 if you don't go for the extra stuff, the regular storyline, even if only 20 hours, is enough to 
 satisfy since it feels much longer.
  
  Tilt- All in all this game is amazing. Cute sounds and graphics but great gameplay creat a package 
 no owner of the Wii should be without. It has its flaws but they aren't even noticable when your 
 enjoying your way through this funny game. The 2-D to 3-D provides an amazing touch to the game 
 that makes this unique in every way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mutantfries
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 8, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario would make a great rental because you can probably beat it in under 15 hours. 
 I myself rented it and loved it. I made it all the way to the second to last level before giving 
 up due to the difficulty eventually exceding my ability. The story is incredibly well told and 
 surpirsing deep for a Nintendo game. I only wish that I could have seen the rest of it. Some reviewers 
 said that there was too much reading of text, but I thought that it served as a great way to unwind 
 from the action. The art syle is incredible in 2D, but bland in 3D. Yes, you can swap between 2D 
 and 3D. The sound is presented in midi style even though the hardware now allows for ochestrated 
 music. I would reccomend this game as a rental, but only buy it if you're a die-hard fan of all 
 Mario games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djdevon101
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 7, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  this game is pretty good it wasnt the greatest but there are cool new features like flip mode where 
 you can go into 3d instead of 2d to escape or help defeat enemies, i dont own this game but ive 
 played it and it is just like the old mario but there is new mpwerups features characters and the 
 grafix arem changed alot there are alot of different obstacles instead of enemys in the old one 
 but there is still enemies, overall this is a rent first game unless you really love mario games, 
 g g g g g g gg g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g gg g g g g g g g g g 
 g g g gg g g g g g gg g g g g g 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skywardbr
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 7, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  When you first play Super Paper Mario on Nintendo Wii you realize that it's the best game so far 
 for this console. The game has a pretty complex storyline considering how childish it seems to 
 be. It's about 2 lovers from different families that would never accept their relationship, and 
 because of it, they are separated, one turning to be on the good side and the other one becoming 
 the main villain. This is where Mario comes in, with the help of Tippi, Peach, Luigi and even Bowser, 
 who once again goes along with Mario in this great quest to save the world from destruction.
  The gameplay is very innovative, combining the oldstyle 2D plataform game with 3D in a unique way, 
 adding up a lot of RPG contents, like itens and leveling up.
  For those who like to play a game till the very end it's a amazing game with tons of side quests 
 one harder then another making a very difficult game if you want to achieve 100% of it.
  Definitly a must have game for Nintendo Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carolynmichelle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  The Paper Mario series has distinguished itself as a wonderfully charming, well-written and fun 
 series of RPGs with minor platforming elements and a unique visual style. The latest game, Super 
 Paper Mario for the Wii, flips the series around a bit, putting the emphasis squarely on platforming 
 and relegating the role-playing aspects to a supporting role. The result is a game that, while 
 neither quite as fun as a full-fledged Mario RPG or full-fledged Mario platformer, is still a good 
 game that fans of Nintendo's versatile plumber won't want to miss.
  
  Like the earlier games in the Paper Mario series, Super Paper Mario is ostensibly a tale from a 
 storybook. A mysterious figure named Count Bleck is trying to fulfill the prophecies in an evil 
 tome called the Dark Prognosticus, and to that end he arranges a wedding between Bowser and Princess 
 Peach. So unholy is this union that a concentration of evil known as the Chaos Heart is borne of 
 it, with the power to devour worlds a la the Nothing from The Neverending Story. As usual, Mario 
 is called upon to defeat the forces of darkness, though this time around he's accompanied for much 
 of the time by Princess Peach, Bowser, and Luigi. Also tagging along for the adventure are a bunch 
 of creatures called pixls, each of which has their own specific talent. Compared to earlier games 
 in the series, Super Paper Mario just doesn't have nearly as much to offer in the way of endearing 
 characters or terrific dialogue, but taken on its own terms the story isn't bad, and it certainly 
 has its funny moments. 
  
  The central concept of the gameplay in Super Paper Mario is a brilliant one: What if you could 
 suddenly get a 3D perspective on all those classic 2D Mario platformers? When you first find yourself 
 in the action in Super Paper Mario, it plays out pretty much exactly like an old-school Mario game, 
 with you running from left to right, jumping on Goombas and other enemies to defeat them. But very 
 early on, Mario gets the ability to "flip," turning his paper-thin self sideways and shifting the 
 entire perspective of the game along with it. It's a terrific effect that will probably hold particular 
 appeal for those who have spent long hours playing Mario's classic side-scrolling adventure games. 
 Time and time again throughout the game, flipping the perspective will reveal surprising things: 
 There might be twice as many coins there than you think there are, or elements that appear to be 
 part of the distant background might actually be right there next to you. This one concept, and 
 the skill with which it's executed and integrated into the game, is pretty much enough in and of 
 itself to make Super Paper Mario a unique and worthwhile experience.
  
  Like Mario, most of the enemies he encounters throughout his adventures are also paper-thin and 
 only exist on one plane of existence. In other words, the Goombas, Koopas or other enemies you 
 see when you're in the traditional side-scrolling perspective often disappear when you flip, but 
 this also sometimes reveals other foes you couldn't see previously. This, and the fact that there's 
 a timer that will periodically cause damage if you stay flipped for too long, try to prevent flipping 
 from being a way to just avoid all your troubles and race from one end of a stage to the other, 
 but in many cases it's still very easy to do precisely that. 
  
  The game does a reasonably good job of capturing the feel of classic Mario side-scrollers at times, 
 although the dash button which was so central to the experience of those games is noticeably absent. 
 Yes, Super Paper Mario does away with the turn-based combat of earlier games in the series and 
 replaces it with good, old-fashioned real-time stomping, though the game does include some light 
 RPG elements. In this game, your score functions as your experience, and as you level up you earn 
 more heart points, enabling you to take more damage. You'll also spend a fair amount of time looking 
 around for crucial items or trying to solve puzzles, though these aspects of the game aren't nearly 
 as developed or enjoyable as they have been in earlier Paper Mario games. And you can still perform 
 so-called stylish moves, done here with a well-timed shake of the Wii remote, and doing so will 
 increase the number of points you earn for defeating enemies.
  
  The fact that there are pacing problems throughout Super Paper Mario doesn't help matters. Some 
 of the game's chapters move along at a steady clip but others bring things to a screeching halt 
 for a while, and between each chapter you must return to the game's hub town of Flipside. This 
 wouldn't be such a bad thing, but Flipside is pretty dull as far as hub towns go, and most of the 
 time you're there you'll probably be wishing you were on to the next bit of action already.
  
  Super Paper Mario has the same charming, cartoony visual style of earlier Paper Mario games, 
 and it's as attractive as ever. The graphics in the game aren't that impressive from a technical 
 standpoint, but they're bright and creative, and the effect of flipping is a novel and exciting 
 one that you'll probably still enjoy even after you've seen it a hundred times. The game's sound 
 doesn't fare nearly as well, unfortunately. While there are a few updates of classic Mario themes 
 that sound okay, the majority of the music in this game ranges from thoroughly forgettable to downright 
 bad. A lot of it sounds like awful outtakes from the soundtrack of the movie Tron.
  
  There are plenty of delightful surprises and great moments throughout Super Paper Mario. The main 
 problem with the game is that, in order to combine the platforming and role-playing elements it 
 brings together, both aspects have been compromised and aren't quite as deep or fun as they have 
 been in earlier games. It tries to cram a bit too much into itself, and as a result it ends up 
 feeling like a light platformer crossed with a very light role-playing adventure. Still, while 
 it may not compare so well to its outstanding predecessors, it goes off on its own direction and 
 deserves to be judged on its own merits. On the whole, it's an innovative and genuinely good game 
 that takes a few risks and at the same time makes a few compromises. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drswank
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 6, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is an interesting mixture of 2D platforming and 3D exploring tied in a bow consisting 
 of simple RPG elements. While this may sound like chaos on paper (no pun intended, of course) , 
 the execution goes off without a hitch, and when tempered with a great storyline, very likeable 
 characters, and a million and one mustache jokes, Super Paper Mario establishes itself as one of 
 those games that anyone with a Wii should play at least once and will most likely enjoyuntil Super 
 Mario Galaxy arrives that is.
  
  The main story revolves around a forced marriage between Princess Peach and A-list end boss Bowser. 
 While the union seems confusing at first, it all becomes apparent that a mysterious third party 
 has put this all together, being one Count Bleck. The marriage creates an item called the chaos 
 heart, which the dastardly count must leverage to destroy all of the worlds in the known universe. 
 Of course Mario is thrown into the mix as the chosen one which prophecy distinguishes by his 
 trademark red shirt/blue overall combo. Mario is sent out by series mainstay Merlon to collect 
 eight pure hearts that can be used to combat the chaos heart and keep the worlds from being destroyed. 
 Aside from the main storyline, there are some interesting side stories involving lost loves, and 
 the disappearances of Bowser, Peach, and Luigi that help to keep things engaging enough for you 
 to want to press on. The town of Flipside, a place where a mans worth is judged by the amount 
 of hair on his face, acts as a hub to each of the eight worlds youll explore. When youre not 
 questing to retrieve pure hearts, youre free to explore Flipside at your leisure where you can 
 talk to the townsfolk, go to the local arcade, or explore to complete the handful of side quests 
 that are available. Sticking to tradition with the other games in the series, Super Paper Mario 
 is played like a 2D platformer, and a darn good one at that. You play with the Wii remote sideways; 
 movement is controlled by the D-Pad while the 1 and 2 buttons allow you to jump and use special 
 abilities. The A button is conveniently used to flip into 3D mode with Mario, which works because 
 youll be using that ability more than any other. While Mario essentially starts his quest alone, 
 youll eventually get a party of four characters that you can change between on the fly. Each character 
 has his or her own special abilities at your disposal. Mario has the most useful ability and is 
 able to flip the 2D world into 3D allowing you to find hidden items, alternate paths, or just plain 
 avoid enemies all together. Princess Peach uses her parasol to float and block attacks, Luigi can 
 jump really high to get to otherwise unreachable places, and Bowser can breathe fire in addition 
 to dealing double the damage of the other three members. The characters special abilities add 
 great new twists on the classic Mario gameplay. Despite the new special abilities; youll still 
 be stomping on the heads of Koopas, breaking bricks, and hitting question boxes just like old times. 
 Even with all of the gameplay rooted in the classics, this still feels like a much different game 
 than New Super Mario Bros. The classic gameplay is augmented by some light RPG elements that arent 
 too overbearing to turn away fans that are first being exposed to this series. Yes, theres an 
 inventory system, but youll come to realize that inventory management wont that much of an issue. 
 Every baddie you dispatch will give you points towards an overall score that act as group experience 
 points, which extend to every character in the party to gain levels. There are also new twists 
 to the classic power-ups. Mushrooms will restore hit points, flowers allow you to speed up or slow 
 down time, and stars will transform your character into a giant retro version of themselves and 
 smash everything in their path a la New Super Mario Bros. Youll also get items that will shoot 
 flames, ice, or lightning at any enemies onscreen or defensive items that decrease damage, increase 
 attack, or make you invincible for a short time. With this being a Wii release, the motion sensitive 
 controls are integrated seamlessly enough not to be gimmicky. Certain power-ups require you to 
 complete small mini games that affect their potency. For instance, if you use an ice burst attack 
 youll need to shake the remote up and down to fill up an onscreen meter. Other mini games will 
 have you tipping the remote in certain directions or shaking it at key moments. Youll also get 
 additional experience points by shaking the remote after stomping on enemies allowing you to strike 
 a stylish pose. Stomping enemies and special abilities can only take the heroes so far, however. 
 Lucky for you, there are a variety of creatures you can collect called Pixls that, when equipped, 
 can give you new abilities or allow you to move past otherwise impassable obstacles. Youll start 
 out with Tippi, the main Pixl in your party who will reveal hidden objects and provide help if 
 you point the remote at the screen and highlight certain items. Other Pixls will grant you the 
 abilities to throw objects, bomb blocks that get in your path, or shrink to the size of an ant. 
 Each Pixl comes complete with witty names like Thoreau the throwing Pixl, Carrie, the Pixl that 
 will carry you across spiked pits, or Boomer the bomb. Youll be able to collect a new Pixl in 
 each new world where the majority of the puzzles are designed for them, however, as you get into 
 the later stages, youll come across a number of situations where youll need to constantly change 
 character / Pixl combinations to keep moving. While this may sound like an exercise in pulling 
 teeth, switching between characters and Pixls is easy and none of the puzzles are particularly 
 difficult and can be pretty ingenious at times. There are a few elements that hold Super Paper 
 Mario back from being perfect. The main gripe is with the camera controls when the view is flipped 
 into 3D, as it likes to get stuck behind walls or obstructed by the stupidest things without any 
 means to adjust it. Its also hard to line enemies up for a jump when theyre walking around in 
 3D mode, which forces you to pretty much avoid them altogether lest you lose unnecessary hit points. 
 While youll have four characters, including the almighty Bowser at your disposal, theres really 
 no reason to play any other character from Mario outside of when the others need to be utilized. 
 Bowser moves too slow and cant jump that well, while Luigi can jump really high, but seems increasingly 
 difficult to control  especially when youre on a narrow platform surrounded by pits. The main 
 draw of Super Paper Mario lies in its art style, which almost achieves genius levels at certain 
 points. Almost every character in the game is in 2D, and when flipped into 3D mode, retains their 
 2D charm. At certain times, the residents of the worlds upstage the main characters. Youll encounter 
 characters like Francis, the geeked-out lizard who sounds a little too much like anyone who posts 
 on the Gamespot forums, or Flint Cragley, the cowardly TV adventurer , especially how theyre involved 
 in the main storyline. For instance, there are some truly sad and almost heart-touching moments 
 involving a flower king or another involving a daughter and a secret her parents kept from her. 
 The best group of characters lies in the minions of Count Bleck. From the Scottish surliness of 
 OChunks, a burly, bearded man made up of chunks (imagine that) to the crafty Dimentio, the chameleon 
 Mimi, and Blecks assistant Nastasia. The conflicts between them and the way they rib each other 
 on their individual performances is not only funny, but fleshes them out as more than talking obstacles 
 that get in your way every other world. Hell, even the Koopas are great for a laugh or two during 
 certain parts where they play key roles. The true visual treat lies in the worlds you explore where 
 youll venture through locales ranging from the pixilated Bit Lands to outer space and even to 
 the purgatory for all game characters that experience game over, the Underwhere. If you even 
 look close enough, theres a faithful recreation of world 1-2 from the original Super Mario Bros 
 that reaches new levels of surreal as you play through it as either Bowser or Peach. As you enter 
 a door to a new world, its introduced through a short scene that looks as if its being drawn 
 out with an Etch-a-Sketch and filled in with color. Youll also see hidden pits revealed by pieces 
 of paper being torn away from the floor, or characters busting right through the scenery. Boss 
 battles also take on a creative spin at times. While most play out in your atypical dodge, jump, 
 and stomp variety, others will take on more unconventional twists like game shows, dating sims, 
 and even a poke at a battle that looks like something right out of Dragon Warrior. Other boss battles 
 are giant attacking puzzles where youll be pressed to find the right character/Pixl combination 
 to take them out efficiently. The sound, while great, seems lacking in places. Youll get great 
 remixes of classic Mario themes as well as new tracks that fit in well with the universe. Unfortunately, 
 voice acting is minimal and youll only get a few grunts from your main characters to go along 
 with the healthy amount of text youll be reading. In all, however, the sounds are remixed, updated, 
 yet retro takes on the Mario universe, which works well. In all, the main story mode isnt particularly 
 challenging, though there may be a couple of spots where youll meet your demise once or twice. 
 The main story mode clocks in at twenty hours, which is modest for an RPG, but great for a platformer. 
 That would possibly put this game at just right. There are many more hours of exploration if 
 you want to revisit previous worlds with new Pixls, collect 256 of the games collectable cards, 
 or venture on the handful of side quests. Super Paper Mario is an excellent mix of classic platforming 
 and RPG and with it set in a new, yet unfamiliar universe with an excellent story to back it up, 
 makes Super Paper Mario a game anyone with a Wii would need to try if theyre tired of the endless 
 Sponge Bob games or current movie cash-in. Being equal parts old and new, this game will pretty 
 much appeal to anyone who loves Nintendo, Mario, classic games, or RPGs. It would have just been 
 nice if all of the characters could have been utilized better to allow you to play them more often. 
 Considering how enjoyable this game is, any gripe is small and miniscule. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wanderer5
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 6, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  At first it was coming to the GC but it was move to the Wii and now in out. Super Paper Mario is 
 very different from the previous Paper Mario, But it is still awesome. In this game a villain name 
 Count Bleck forces Bowser and Princess Peach to marry because a book the count have predict that 
 if a ruthless king and a light hearted princess marry a void would appear and destroy all worlds. 
 Now it up to Mario and the gang to collect the pure hearts to stop this fate of the worlds. Though 
 the game, the story it get more interesting that include funny dialogue that some will make you 
 laugh.
  
  Unlike previous Paper Mario games this is a 2D platformer. It is play like old school mario games 
 but with a few twists. The heath system (for you and enemies) from the previous PM games is back 
 in this game. One of the awesome stuff in this game is the 2D/3D flipping system. You can switch 
 from 2D to 3D. This can help you in many ways. The down side is that there is a meter which go 
 down. So the longer you stay in 3D the more health you lose. Not only you can play as Mario, but 
 you can also play as Peach, Bowser, and Luigi. Each character has different ability from each other. 
 You also get pixls instead of party members. The pixls do their own things which you need in order 
 to go though the game. You can also do stylish moves by shaking the wiimote when you jump on a 
 enemy.
  
  This game has a nice artistic design. It pretty smooth and even in 3D the texture are great. The 
 sound are pretty good here. The music has new songs and remixes of old songs. Most of them are 
 good. The sound effects are hit or miss. Some are good, but others are weak. Even if the main quest 
 is long this game is not really hard. You can beat the whole game and only die a couple of times. 
 Boss battles are good example of this. While they can be annoying, it not hard to take them down. 
 Fortunately there is more stuff to do other then the main quest. You can go back to previous levels 
 if you wanted to. Plus you can explore two towns (flipside and flopside) . The pit of 100 trials 
 is back in this game, but there is not one but two of them. Unlike Paper Mario 2 this one these 
 are real time which can be fun and you get goods. Overall it isn't as good as the previous, but 
 with the great 2D/3D flipping system, good story, and a nice artistic design, Super Paper Mario 
 is truly a awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiwillstand
Rating: 8
Date: May 9, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario, although it is short and fairly easy, it still provides excellent gameplay, 
 replay value, and fun and excitement that Mario games have to offer.
  
  We meet Count Bleck, a villain who with the power of the Dark Prognosticus has awoken the Chaos 
 Heart that will destroy all worlds. Now Mario, along with the help of a "Pixl" named Tippi, and 
 a whole assortment of friends and other unique Pixls, must collect 8 Pure Hearts to stop Count 
 Bleck and save the world. With many special abilities provided by the Pixls, special jump styles 
 made with the Wii Remote and more, this game will keep you going until you can't go anymore! Super 
 Paper Mario offers great side-scrolling gameplay found in many classic Mario games, and the uniqueness 
 of 3-D gameplay! If you're stuck in 2-D, flip to 3-D to discover hidden paths, special items, and 
 more!
  
  Super Paper Mario is an excellent game that no Wii Owner should let pass them buy. All gamers will 
 enjoy this game! If you're a Wii Owner, I suggest you pick this game up from a local seller . . 
 . and quick! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAREDJR
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 5, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is a beautiful title, with loads of old-school charm from the 2-D platforming 
 action, retro-mini's and mega characters, as well as the theme music for several worlds. There 
 are tons of reasons to explore for secrets and side missions, treasures, recipes, mini-games, etc. 
 Graphics look sharp, colours are vivid and the world really feels familiar, but in a good way. 
 This franchise is heading in the right direction. My one main criticism is that Paper Mario games 
 are supposed to be funny, but many of the jokes fall short. I did enjoy the grand size of several 
 boss battles, however the enemies are much too easy to beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drbob33
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 5, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  I find that some of my reviews are quite wordy and long. So, here is the abbreviated version.
 
  
  Good:
  - This game is funny. I laughed aloud more than a few times.
  - The graphics are sharp and look good.
  - This game is very fun. The different levels show a 
 lot of variety.
  - The length is quite impressive. It's about a 20 hour game.
  - It is very casual, the difficulty level is minimal.
  - Overall, the game is very charming because 
 it doesn't take itself seriously.
  - The 3D thing is not a gimmick- it's a great way to solve puzzles.
  
  Bad:
  - Too much text. 
 I've had more than one person say something like if I wanted to read so much, I'd get a book. 
 
  - Story is passable, but not terribly impressive.
  - Pacing is inconsistent.
  - No widescreen (seriously Nintendo... that is pitiful.)
  - Very little voice work.
  
  Verdict: 
 Buy this game, unless you have a fair amount of time on your hands, in which case you can finish 
 this game in a weekend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chindar0
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 7, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  I will state the main points here to save people some time if they dont feel like reading too 
 much:
  Is It Fun? Yes, you will be entertained, although annoyed by some excessive text and pacing issues 
 at times.
  Platformer or RPG?: Platforming with transient RPG elements.
  Easy to Play?: Yes, at worst you learn from basic trial and error; the game does a good job of 
 pointing you in the right direction. Minor wiimote D-pad or configuration issues for the large 
 fingered.
  Difficult?: Depends on your experience, but nothing that will have you throwing your wiimote across 
 the room or into the television.
  Worth Buying? Depends, lot excessively long and can make an excellent weekend rental. Good for 
 purist (100%ers) . You might want to wait until the price drops.
  
  I would be remiss to not state my history concerning this game and thus my biases for any readers 
 to understand. Growing up since the Good Old 8 Bit Days especially with platforming games like 
 the original Mario Bros and Megaman games; the recent trends (especially for a poor college student 
 who cant afford more than one system so I stick with Nintendo systems) have not had copious re-imaginations 
 of the genre. As such, it is important to mention that after 15+ years of practice at such games, 
 well difficulty might be limited. I also have not played the previous Paper Mario games. That 
 is enough digression for now; I will try to answer some of the questions I asked too. As my own 
 personal rating system is slightly different I will submit to the ends that gamespot reviewing 
 in my grading and progression of the review:
  
  Gameplay:
  Super Paper Mario (SPM) is a modified platforming game with minor RPG elements. The platforming 
 aspect of the game is superb, but also forgiving as there are only a handful of moments of truly 
 precise platform jumping where it is either make the jump onto a minimally sized pillar or fall 
 into the pit of doom. Being a large fingered male I would make a side note that I often had some 
 minor difficulty concerning the size of the D-pad of the wiimote: for example as the playable character 
 Bowser, the Down D-pad command causes him to breathe fire and ceases his movement. In several cases 
 this occurred at times I really did not want it. To the point of gameplay and the wiimote, I would 
 also take point in arguing that the special moves for the switchable playable characters could 
 have been switched to the A button (which for everyone but Mario becomes worthless) . My last little 
 rant against the control scheme would be that activating the menu requires the 1 &amp; 2 buttons 
 pressed in synch, which sometimes would activate a jump or pixl and could have been transferred 
 to the B button instead (again this is my first wii game to have really played through and hopefully 
 developers will add wiimote customizing scheme or programming features in the future) . The RPG 
 elements of significance is that you level up through experience from killing enemies with a variety 
 of attacks, from jumping and fire breath to several pixls (basically interchangeable abilities/charactersto 
 the 1 button) , thus you do an amount of damage through an attack vs defense value and that you 
 have your own hitpoints. The use of items is the traditional RPG style, of which a little wiimote 
 pointing of shaking is involved. The puzzles (often pixl ability related) are simple and uninspired. 
 In the end the gameplay is an excellent and nostalgic platforming experience with RPG elements 
 making it slightly more entertaining (albeit far easier) ; with most of the non-platforming elements 
 are transient at best.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphical nature to the end of making things paper is unique and interesting. As the gamespot 
 reviewer mentioned: once you flip to 3D, you realize that it is mainly empty space. Given that 
 the paper aspect and nostalgic feeling work, the worlds in SPM do not go far to titillating the 
 eye (not that it was particularly expected) . While nothing wows you, nothing is a glaring hindrance 
 to your visual experience. The one problem is that the once flipped, there is only one, non-pivoting 
 camera angle, which can irk at times. I believe Nothing Special would best describe SPM graphics.
 
  
  Story:
  The story save all worlds from utter destruction by collecting Pure Hearts; well what can really 
 be said? While this game attempts to make a heartfelt story, it falls short and all twists and 
 turns gaming veterans (probably anyone whos had much experience with fictional narratives at all) 
 will know exactly whatll be happening. While many might complain about a lack of voice acting 
 and a lot of text; the text is well written in certain points, including several surprising gameplay 
 moments and moments that you just sit back and laugh for a while. That being said, the majority 
 of the text is rather fluffy and pointless drivel. I personally found myself simply clicking straight 
 through it to get back to platforming. Its a nice story, but you are more likely to want to get 
 back to the action rather than reading through all of the text.
  
  Sound:
  Something that really depressed me, especially in regards to the Mario franchise. Each game prior 
 has made an effort to make a handful of songs truly recognizable (the original overworld theme/underground/water/castle 
 from the original, most of the music from Super Mario World or for instance, who could not know 
 the Slider music from Mario 64?) . In this case SPM has rather uninventive, sometimes annoying 
 musical scores for the bulk of the gameplay. The boss music and character themes are a little better, 
 but nothing like some of the more recent game musical scores.
  
  Value:
  The game has a decent amount of replay value, especially since you can play back through with all 
 your abilities in tact. There is a plethora of collectables (cards, recipes items) and some extraneous 
 pixls. While most of this can be all well and good, there is little significance to actually taking 
 the likely 30+ hours to collect everything, but have almost negligible impact on your game. Obviously 
 this is great for purists and non-completionists just will not care. To this end though, I would 
 recommend renting, as it can be beaten easily within 15 hours of play.
  
  Overall:
  Unless you are a purist, likely SPM is best as a rental for the casual players. It is definitely 
 worth playing, especially if you miss platforming or want to experience the genre in an old school 
 sense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kidy3k
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 5, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  this game is really good its fun i name this game an instant classic i like the fact that is an 
 rpg and as u level up enemy's tend to get harder the puzzels on this game is fun and fun to figure 
 out this game includes characters that u can play such as bowser peach and mario the ebst player 
 of course is mario but its not always mario u need to beat the game see there are certain puzzles 
 that u need to complete with certain charaters such as if theres a treasure box far away on the 
 otherside of the cliff and neither mario or bowser can jump as far u will need peach also to help 
 u along side your missions are these little guys called pixels you are given pixels as you complete 
 the game some you will find kind of worthless once you get far in the game but u always have a 
 choice which one to choose from except when u need them the most well that sums it up this game 
 is a good rpg and i would pick it up after i get other games if i were u 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KH-mixerX
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 5, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is a follow-up installement in the Paper Mario series for the Nintendo Wii. The 
 game's release has been met with much enthusiasim. Previous installements such as Super Mario RPG 
 for the SNES, Paper Mario for the Nintendo 64, and Paper Mario: Thousand-Year Door for the Gamecube 
 have followed a consistent road in terms of gameplay thoughout the years. SPM (I will refer to Super 
 Paper Mario as SPM from here on) has strayed from that road a bit and for the most part has done 
 it pretty well. The series has always been an RPG experience mixed with a cameo-infused Mario adventure. 
 SPM changed this tradition by being more of a platformer with light RPG elements tied in. I am 
 surprised to say this myself, but intelligent systems has actually pulled it off. I was at first 
 very skeptical of SPM, but was very pleased with the end result. With all that said and done, I 
 have a few criticisms that I would like to point out. Even though it is a very well done game, 
 during the transition from RPG to platformer, it lost something. SPM doesn't have the same feel 
 as the other installements did, and in the end, it kept it from being all that it could've been. 
 The memorable subplots, the Toad and Koopa Towns, and the party members you acquire as you progress 
 through the game are no longer their. Another thing that bothered me is the denizens of each locale 
 that you visit. Instead of bustling towns filled with Toads, Koopas, and Bob-ombs, there are these 
 weird geometrical shaped people everywere. It seems almost like they got sloppy and lazy with their 
 character models.
  
  Well, in the end, SPM is still highly recommendable to anyone with a Wii and should be missed by 
 no one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimkabrhel
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 5, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Having played the first two Paper Mario games repeatedly (read: at least 6 times each) , to say 
 that I was eagerly awaiting SPM, is an understatement. Before dissecting the game proper, let me 
 say that I was not disappointed. Yes, SPM stands apart from the two previous titles from it's gameplay, 
 the spirit, great humor and wonderful artistic style are still bursting from the seams.
  I have to say that I love the 2D to 3D mechanic. By itself, a platformer in this style would have 
 been very shallow, and boring, but being able to have a secondary world with the flip of a button 
 created a world (pun intended) of possibilities. I've spent a lot of time going back through each 
 world in 3D, not only to find the secrets, but just to see the details from the 3D perspective.
 
  
  The gameplay is very easy to pick up, and the in game text offers generous hints. That said, one 
 of the issues I do have with the game is that it is too easy, especially for an experienced gamer. 
 However, the purpose of this type of game isn't just the challenge, it's the experience, and Intelligent 
 Systems have put a lot of effort into making it a complete experience.
  Just like the previous titles, there is too much back tracking, and I would have argued for 6 levels 
 in each world, rather than 4, but those are minor gripes.
  Even after beating the main game, I'm not going back through and completing the side quests, with 
 about 35 hours of gameplay time so far. SPM is a great a welcome addition to the Wii library, and 
 I certainly hope for a sequel, either in this form or in the more traditional RPG style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LHBlast
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 5, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  The music in this game is annoying. The game ends to quickly. And the bosses are too easy. So why 
 did I give this game a 8.8 rating? It's because of its amazing gameplay. I love the new battle 
 style in this game (different from Paper Mario the Thousand Year Door) . You can switch from 2-D 
 mode to 3-D mode at basically anytime too.
  
  Good Parts: - new battle style
  - new 3-D mode
  - funny
  
  Bad Parts:
  - WORDY! too much text!
  - Bosses are relatively 
 easy
  - Game is too short
  - Annoying Music (in my opinion)
  
  Take this into effect if you want to buy Super Paper Mario. Let me tell you though, it's better 
 than Zelda. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geno162
Rating: 1
Date: May 4, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  I have never written a review but after this game i feel as if i need to. I have always been there 
 for the Mario Series by owning everysingle game that has come out with the name Mario, expect all 
 those sport games im not much of a sports person (expect Mario Tennis for the N64 that game is beast) . 
 I bought the first Super Mario RPG Legend of the Seven Stars for SNES and still it is the best 
 game out to date (well other than Chrono Trigger) . The two other Paper Marios were fun because 
 they were not a platform and had much more of an RPG style. This game in no way is an RPG so don't 
 tell me it is or try to convince me that it is one Nintendo. Why even bother for a stratrgy guide 
 for this game? There are so many errors to the game that i cannot explain. Nice new idea of flipping 
 into paper 3D mode though it was cool and a new idea. Whendid all my pals and battle buddies go 
 and turn into 100 pixles with usles talent (Seriouly a hammer pixel, mario has had his own hammer 
 since as far back as i can remember, and do not even go on with all the pixels) I was far dissopointed 
 with this amazing easy and childish games. All those texts between chapeters about Timpaini i have 
 never read because there pointless. What happended here seriously? I wanted to stop playing after 
 the 3rd chapter because i saw the decline of this series in the one game. If nintendo does refunds 
 i would please appreciate a money back for this video game but if not ill sell it to anyone for 
 a dollar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofreak1216
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 3, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario was not a particularly disappointing game.. It just wasn't as good as i was hoping 
 it to be. Seeing as the first two games would go on my top 10 favorite games of all time list, 
 this game was not up to par. However, that is not to say this is a bad game. Lets delve a bit more 
 into it.
  
  Gameplay- The most important part of any game... Is it fun? Well, yea it is. The side scrolling 
 action fits Paper Mario pretty well, seeing as thats where Mario started out. And this game pulls 
 it off well. My major compliment about this is the new 3-D flipping mechanic. It's great, and adds 
 a whole new dimension to puzzles. You'll find yourself flipping all the time just to discover secret 
 locations and items. Now there are a couple problems. The first one is the item system, they give 
 you the options to buy items but you will NEVER use non-healing items. I went through the ENTIRE 
 game without using ONE non-healing item. Damaging items are just pointless when every enemy in 
 the game is so easy. Every enemy dies in one to three bounces, and even the bosses aren't too difficult. 
 Which leads to the question, why did they bother to put those items in the game? Well, they wanted 
 to mix it up while still retaining some of the RPG elements. But those things don't really work 
 UNLESS they are in an RPG! I mean if your playing Super Mario Brothers, are you going to bounce 
 on a Goomba or are you going to go inside a menu and scroll down to a fire flower and press A and 
 do some stupid mini-game to kill it? Now, I had fun with this game regardless of that stuff, but 
 next time they should think about it. Graphics- Well, it's colorful, paper, and bright. There isn't 
 much to say. Two points off because the graphics were Gamecube level but it still gets a good score 
 because of the art direction. The whole style of the game is very charming and nice to look at. 
 It's always cheerful even in dark moments.
  
  Sound- Well, it's the usual cheery Mario music. One complaint is the fact that there is nothing 
 memorable. ALL the Mario games usually have at least one tune that you get stuck in your head, 
 and you like it. I do like the little clips of dialog that the characters have. Value- This is 
 indefinably where the game suffers. The game does try its best to give replay value, but it just 
 doesn't work. You can do not one but TWO pit of 100 trials, but it's just not WORTH it, I mean 
 after you beat the game what are you going to use the new stuff for anyway? And all it is is going 
 from floor to floor and killing enemies, and going through mazes. So while the game does try its 
 best to give replay value, you just won't really want to do anything with it
  
  Tilt- My tilt is for the storyline. This game did a wonderful job with the characters, the story, 
 and the humor. There are a couple of laugh out loud moments in this game which I LOVED
  ( I won't spoil it for you but look forward to the end of chapter 3)
  The story can get surprisingly 
 dark at times for a Mario game, especially near the end. I would say the game doesn't 'even end 
 on you're usual Mario type happy-note. It's more of a bitter-sweet type of ending. That was fine 
 by me but I wonder how the kids who played this game would react.
  
  All in All Super Paper Mario is a pretty good game. I would not pass it up, but I also would not 
 throw down 50 dollars to buy it, I beat it in a rental period, and you can too.
  
  Suggestion: RENT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fantasy_cheater
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 2, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  When I saw SPM I thought, Yes paper Mario elements mixed with old school Mario elements. Which 
 is kinda what ya get, but dont go expecting it to be like The New Super Mario Bros. Its far from 
 that. One gripe I have with this game is the talking, now I understand that its an RPG but cmon 
 half of the speech in the game is mindless babble. Who cares if you want to hear my catch phrase 
 just join my team you stupid pixl. Ohh and the pixls are these little things that follow you and 
 have special abilities. Some are used for puzzles and others are used for combat. Youll also find 
 three familiar faces that will join your team, each of which have special abilities as well.
  
  The Puzzles in the game are easy; as long as you dont think to far outside of the box youll 
 be fine. The bosses in the game are far from epic. Once you figure out their patterns (which isnt 
 much) you can easily defeat them. As for the tedious parts. Well I found doing treasure hunting 
 to be a bit of a bore. I already did all the recipes in Paper Mario for the N64 and im never doing 
 anything similar to that again. Card collecting really doesnt reap any benefits either, unlike 
 collecting all the badges in PM. But I have to say the most tedious thing in the game is doing 
 the Flopside 100 trial side quest. Just do it once youll see what I mean.
  
  ohh and the story is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 2, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  Being a longtime Paper Mario fan, I was anticipating this release since its first showing for Gamecube. 
 Also, considering the Wii's lackluster lineup thus far, I needed my Nintendo fix.
  
  Pros:
  - Awesome visuals
  - Story and Dialogue are great, as usual
  - 3D concept is inventive
 
  
  Cons:
  - The level design is weak and repetitive
  - The pacing is off
  - Too much text (no voice overs)
  - Wii functionality hardly there
  
  Not what I expected... I 
 havent really enjoy the game, it feels more like a chore than anything. I am almost done the game, 
 its not as good as either of the previous Paper Mario titles.... I expected the side-scrolling to 
 work well with the series, but it seems to have worked against it. The gameplay just isn't fun... this 
 is definitely one of the worst Mario titles i've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic_rusher
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 1, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  I got Super Paper Mario. It is an awesome game. Thousand of items. Tons of new abilities. Great 
 new battle style. All in all the game is awesome. I love how you can switch characters for different 
 situations. It took me two weeks to beat the game with every quest, side quest, item, side item, 
 character, pure heart, recipe, and little helper that gives abilities completed. I was playing 
 the game consistently and look how long it took me even though I played like 4 hours a day. There 
 is a lot of stuff to do in the game. As always, the replay value of the game is spectacular (as 
 always in the Paper Mario series) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yarcofin
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 1, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  I should probably note that this is my first Paper Mario game, so I am comparing it to the Mario 
 series as a whole, as opposed to the Paper games. Graphics - 7 Super Paper Mario goes for the nostalgic 
 approach in graphics. I can appreciate them wanting to keep things simplistic and traditional, 
 but they could have done a lot more, especially with backgrounds. Character and item design is 
 good, but the backgrounds can be terrible. Chapter 8 is particularly a disappointment, being simply 
 a black background with white lines, remenicent of an old Atari game. At times it's so bad that 
 you can't tell what is a platform, and what is in the background. World 3's pixellation is nearly 
 as bad. I didn't buy a Wii to play a game that could have been done on the SNES. However I understand 
 that this is a Paper game, so I won't penalize it too harshly.
  
  Controls - 9 The controls are simple, easy to learn, and fairly responsive. Menus are easy to use, 
 and it is easy to switch between characters, pixls, and select items. The quick-menu accessed by 
 pressing 1+2 is certainly good, because reaching your thumb back to press + can be hassle. The 
 only bad part of the controls is the motion sensing, particularly Style Moves can be a pain to 
 pull off, having to vigorously shake the controller after jumping on an enemy.
  
  Variety - 8 The biggest variety in the game is definately in enemies. The game features over 150 
 enemies (including dark versions of some) . Gameplay is relatively varied, but for the most part 
 it sticks to traditional Mario platforming style. There are a few arcade games, but nothing worth 
 going into a lot of detail about. The game also features not one, but two Pits of 100 Trials, where 
 you go through 100 rooms of enemies consecutively. The biggest issue is the monotony at some parts 
 of the game (one in particular, if you play you'll know what it is.) There is also the issue of 
 having to flip to 3D and back pretty much constantly, so you don't miss a hidden door or pipe or 
 item, while at the same time having your 3D meter be limited. Replay - 6 The game is worth playing 
 again, even after you've beaten it. After you are done, there is still much to do (discussed below 
 in Depth .) It would also be worth playing through the entire game again as well. I don't know 
 what else there is to add, really. I can say it's good enough to play again, but I don't honestly 
 know how long it will be until I take it out of the case again. The arcade games aren't really 
 good enough to warrant playing a lot, and there is no multiplayer element.
  
  Sound - 7 Sound effects are probably the best section of the sound in SPM. Enemies make appropriate 
 sounds, as do pixls. Bowser has a nice roar, Peach makes.... noises. However, as the main character, 
 I felt that Mario could have been a bit more vocal. He is essentially a mute, and only makes occasional 
 yea! or nono! comments, and the rest is simply gestures and fervent head-nodding. The music was 
 mediocre and nothing special. While some of the tracks get stuck in your head, it's nothing you 
 want to learn to play on the keyboard like most other Mario titles. Since the game is based off 
 of traditional artwork and gameplay, I would have liked to see Koji Kondo encorporate old songs 
 into the game, or at least base the songs off of the same range of notes and tempos.
  
  Depth - 10 This game has a lot of depth if you are an obsessive-compulsive collector type of person 
 who likes to complete games 100%. The game features a lot of recipes, which you can use to turn 
 ordinary items into dishes and try to get them all (along with the cooking disks that have new 
 recipes on them) . However, I didn't cook more than a single recipe that is part of the storyline 
 in the entire game, and I don't see a point in doing so now that I've beaten it. Along with recipes, 
 there are also cards of all the enemies and characters in the game that you can try to collect, 
 and they appear sort of like a Pok&eacute; dex under Cards on the menu. The same issues as with 
 recipes apply. You can also get Treasure Maps, which will lead you to a location where you can 
 get an item, but usually nothing too special. But I suppose if you are into collecting stuff, this 
 game has a lot of depth beyond the main storyline.
  
  Overall - 7.9 Super Paper Mario is a great game that I don't regret buying or playing at all However, 
 it isn't going to be a classic in my opinion, and it definately isn't best-in-series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reinokid
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 1, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Overview:
  In Super Paper Mario, we find our favorite plumber out to once again save the day. This time around, 
 it's multiple worlds he's out to save with the aid of his friends (and some enemies) and the 8 
 Pure Hearts. All to stop the evil Count Bleck from destroying... well, everything.
  
  Presentation:
  A would've-been Gamecube title that uses the Wii Remote like an NES controller. 
 You can flip to 3D to solve puzzles and such. Super Paper Mario: NOW WITH POLYGONS!!
  
  Prologue:
  I was highly anticipating this game's release. I'd heard good things about the Paper 
 Mario series and eagerly awaited it's foray to the Wii; expecting to bide the time until some of 
 Summer and Fall Wii releases. Sadly the game fails to completely deliver in some key aspects.
 
  
  Review:
  The beginning of the game is without a doubt the best part. The first half of the game is filled 
 with humorous dialogue, colorful levels, and clear, fun objectives. The concept of flipping to 
 3D is well implemented and makes the game seem twice as big. In addition to Mario's 3D flip ability, 
 the player will enlist the aid of Pixls, which are flying creatures that grant abilities seen in 
 previous Mario games (like grab and throw, setting bombs, and using a hammer) as well as some new 
 ones. All of these Pixl abilities can be used anywhere at anytime and give you new ways to thwart 
 your foes, as opposed to the standard jumping. The other characters Peach, Bowser, and Luigi have 
 their own moves and are each fit for various occasions. As for motion sensing, the Wii Remote can 
 be used as a pointer to identify on-screen objects and enemy data, and when using some items, short 
 little timing or reflex actions are performed with the Wii Remote which makes things a bit more 
 exciting. And as true with many Nintendo games there are references and cameos all over, such as 
 a DS Lite cooking computer and a Brain Age type minigame, just to name a few.
  
  It's around the game's half-way marker that it begins to lose it's initial charm. While early stages 
 have you doing various things that not only get you familiar with the game, but give you a satisfying 
 feeling; later stages seem drawn out and somewhat out of place in comparison. At one point in the 
 game you must collect a large sum of money that can only be attained by doing things such as running 
 inside a hamster wheel for what seems like eternity or hitting a coin block hundreds (yes HUNDREDS) 
 of times. The Samurai level is no where near as cool as it sounds due to the 20+ mid-bosses you 
 will have to fight, without rest or save in between. And let's not forget that long stretch of 
 complete nothingness I had to walk through for several minutes, using the dash Pixl even, or the 
 series of fetch-quests that pollute the second half of the game; the list goes on.
  
  Even using your favorite character can be a pain because at many points the game requires you to 
 switch to another ally. It sounds like no big deal but it drags out a game that's already being 
 annoying in other aspects. Stack that on to the short game length (which is probably a blessing 
 in disguise) and the low replay value (unless you like collecting cards) and you have a game built 
 like diet soda: light and refreshing, but it leaves a bad taste afterwards.
  
  Epilogue:
  At the end of the day ask yourself the following questions regarding Super Paper Mario:
  
  
 Looking for a good Mario platformer? Yeah, you'll like this game.
  Need something casual that doesn't take itself too seriously? It's the games strong point, man.
 
  Want a deep RPG experience? Look elsewhere.
  Want something that'll keep you busy for a while? Keep looking.
  Want to make the most of the 
 Wii and the Wii Remote? You can do a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobylim
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 1, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  This game IS good, the 2D-3D world is pretty cool, but will fast enough, become repetitive. Each 
 time you are somewhere and wonder what to do, duh, you switch, and thats it. There is a lot of 
 cool features in the game, a lot of pixils to use, etc. But after playing like 6-7 hours, you'll 
 begin to think this game isn't soooo good. I meen, the story at first might interest you, BUT DAMN, 
 tooo much text!! I always read text in game, in RPG and all, but this game isn't suppossed to be 
 ALL about storyline!! After each chapter, you know you have at least a 30 min wasted listening 
 to text, finding the place to put the heart, play in the other world.. but, this is just... not 
 interesting. I just don't give a damn about finding a fish bowl, then finding a place to put a 
 fish in water, then hearing the story again THEN really play. In a platformer, we wanna play!!! 
 not answering 10 questions any time you get to find a pixil... Oh well, WHEN you actually play, 
 the game is good, but I would not buy the game. I rent it 7 days, and it will be enought to be 
 bored. Replay value, might be good, because you can play back any lvl, but.. you won't really care. 
 once your done, you don't really want to do it again. What really let me down, is the world 2, 
 when you must run like 10 minute in a sort of hamster wheel, to collect ruby. i mean, you must 
 have 10 000, and after running 5 min, whoa, you got 4573! SUCKS!! after that you must find in the 
 50 guys, THE ONE that will give you a advice for 10 000. also, you find a block, you hit it, and 
 you get a heart, you might hit it many time before you see that it cost you ruby each times without 
 you even notice, you might need to go back for 4 min in the wheel. That was pretty stupid and boring. 
 This game is good indeed, but let me down sometimes. also the game is just TOO easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmg1299
Rating: 6
Date: May 9, 2007 3:28 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario for the Wii is an entertaining little game that does a fair job of keeping Marios 
 greatness alive while gamers await the next traditional Mario game for this generation. While existing 
 fans of the Paper Mario series will be very pleased with this effort, it leaves a few things to 
 be desired from fans of the platform based Mario games. I am a lifelong fan of the Mario side-scrollers 
 and platform titles. I decided to give this title a try because of the rave reviews from gaming 
 publications and the limited Wii library at this time. I was amused by some of the humor and parts 
 of the action in this game, but have not been as impressed by the title as I wouldve liked. The 
 game definitely has its own visual style that sets it apart from other entries. Im sure that graphics 
 junkies could find something to complain about, but people who are that obsessed with the visuals 
 should be focusing on their PS3 and 360 games. Gamers who enjoy the innovative Wii control system 
 will be pleased with the effort. The control scheme is fairly straightforward, but will take a 
 little getting used to in some parts. Most of the game is played like a traditional Mario game 
 with the Wiimote held horizontally. Gamers will have to shake or point the Wiimote at the screen 
 at certain times. My main problem with the game stems from the vast amount of text involved in 
 the gameplay. I do not believe there is any excuse form any game released in 2007 to still be using 
 text instead of spoken dialogue. This game involves more reading than many novels. If I feel like 
 reading, Ill pick up a good book. When I feel like gaming, Id like to actually play the game 
 rather than read endless screens of text. Also, this title involves a great deal more puzzle solving 
 than previous Mario titles. I have always loved Mario for the plat forming, but tend to pop in 
 a Zelda game if Im in the mood fro puzzles. The flipping between 2-D and 3-D gaming seems unique 
 at first, but becomes more cumbersome than entertaining when it becomes necessary for backtracking 
 in order to solve fairly mindless puzzles. While many gamers seem to love the mix of platforming 
 and RPG aspects, I find them an odd mix. Fans of RPGs will find the simple puzzles and automatic 
 leveling up to be too easy for their taste. Platforming fans will find the action too spread out 
 among endless text screens. Rather than seamlessly mix these two genres, Super Paper Mario tends 
 to offer a sub-par mix that may alienate fans of both styles. All in all, fans of the Paper Mario 
 series will probably love this title. Gamers like me who pick this title up to get some much needed 
 Mario action on the Wii will be less impressed. Super Paper Mario is a quality title that meets 
 Nintendos high standards, but it strikes me as more of an acquired taste. The game is worth playing 
 just for the experience, but newcomers to the series may want to consider a rental prior to spending 
 $50 on this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZebethOrZebes
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 30, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Many observers have called Super Paper Mario the third entry in the Paper Mario series, but the 
 truth is, this game is in a category all its own. It is a game that not only calls into question 
 the distinction between dimensions, but calls into question the distinction between genres as well. 
 Platforming and role-playing elements are fused for a refreshing take on the Nintendo adventure 
 game formula. Although it does little to stray from the structure of Mario, Zelda, and Metroid 
 games made in the past two decades, the way the designers fill the structure, and the way the dialogue 
 gives it meaning is truly special.
  
  Super Paper Mario's audio is mostly great. Many of the songs are trippy re-imaginings of the old 
 Mushroom Kingdom tunes, but the new ones also pay homage to the rudimentary sounds to be heard 
 from the NES and Super Nintendo. Where it falters is in the annoying presence of the warning audio. 
 Though these alarms do their job by pointing out the peril one occasionally puts himself through, 
 they also are quite grating. I can be told my health is low without being given a headache. However 
 the in-world sound effects are great, and the minimalistic voice-acting is exactly what the series 
 (and this game specifically) demand. Their cartoonish nature complement's the game's whimsical 
 visuals and gameplay excellently.
  
  The game plays similar to the Mario Bros., Mario Land, and Mario World games of the 8- and 16-bit 
 eras and has players holding their Wii remotes like NES controllers. The 2 button allows Mario 
 to jump, and the player is invited to shake the Wii remote to earn bonus points (and thus level 
 up faster) , and the 1 button activates his equipped Pixl's ability. Throughout the game, you will 
 find floating, neon sprites called Pixls, they aid Mario by lending their specific skill to him 
 when called upon to do so. The Pixls cover most of the abilities Mario had in Paper Mario Thousand 
 Year Door and the original Paper Mario, plus some interesting new ones. All are put to good use 
 by the level design, but not all are needed to beat the game. And this reviewer has an inkling 
 that he missed a Pixl or two himself.
  
  Mario is also given the inventory standard in most role-playing games and many of the items found 
 in previous Mario forays into the genre. These items do everything from heal our protagonist, to 
 increase his stats, and some can be combined to make better items -- via cooking, a la the previous 
 Paper Mario -- which aid Mario in amplified and compounded ways. Mario also soon gains the ability 
 flip into 3D. The dimensional interplay lends itself to some mind-bending puzzles, and the graphics 
 designers colour this strange arrangement in a suitable (because equally mind-bending) way. Each 
 of the worlds has its own colourful style most of which have unique enemies and non-player characters 
 to populate them. The use of parallax scrolling in this game not only makes for interesting puzzles, 
 but also interesting visuals; As backgrounds will scroll independently of the foreground, and all 
 will scroll independently of the camera. This gives each world the impression of a living diorama, 
 an important element of the Paper Mario games. The game's visuals are full of the self-reflexivity 
 for which Nintendo games are renowned. Such touches of flair will have varying degrees of appeal 
 for different players who have varying degrees of experience with the Mario universe and accompanying 
 lore, but everybody will snicker at the koopas in sunglasses, and most will pick up on the nods 
 to the Mario games of their childhood.
  
  On the subject of self-reflexivity, the game's dialogue and character illustration are the strength 
 of the game's plot. Bowser will be filled with the melancholy of the pre-ordained role of final 
 boss, helper characters will refer to the great being from another dimension, who will know what 
 the A button is , et cetera. Though the story's plot is that of a hackneyed love story, the way 
 it plays out in the context of the Mario universe is captivating. Finally the idea of pure evil 
 is brushed aside by a Mario game, but the idea of the internal split between a nemesis' true self 
 and its source of evil (present in other Nintendo games) is manifest. In the end, Mario is the 
 protagonist because he is who the player controls throughout most of the game, but he is not the 
 main character in the classical sense of the word.
  
  As a whole product, Super Paper Mario is easy to recommend to any Wii owner, and any fan of Nintendo's 
 body of work. The game's unique visuals and gameplay are exactly the kinds of things Nintendo fans 
 were worried their favourite studio would abandon when they announced their much-maligned Revolution. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon376
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 30, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  I have played and enjoyed the thousand year door last year. This game is radically different than 
 the previous paper mario titles. I like how its more of a platformer with role playing elements 
 tacked on. I love this game because it made me feel like a kid again playing super mario for the 
 first time. There is just something about smashing bricks and hitting those question mark blocks 
 that is so much fun. I admit that I wasn't too impressed at first with the game but the more I 
 got into it the more I loved it. I feel the graphics while very nostalgic could have been improved 
 a little. I was very disappointed with the bit land level where everything looked pixelated. But 
 other than that I did enjoy the graphic style in the other levels. This is a must have game for 
 anyone with a wii. It is very original and unique. I hope to see another paper mario game with 
 this style of game play in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lomelindi
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 29, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely fantastic. It's certainly my favourite game for my wii at the moment. The 
 storyline is imaginative, and, I find, really funny. The controls are extremely easy to use, and 
 I love that you use the wii remote both as a regular controller and as a pointer. So far the game 
 is easy enough that it doesn't get frustrating, but not SO easy that it's boring. Flipping between 
 2D and 3D is really creative, and an interesting way to solve puzzles or get past bad guys. I'm 
 not much of a graphics snob so I can't say I have anything to comment on there -- the creativity 
 in the game is what sold me. When I purchased the game I actually hadn't heard too much about it 
 other than that a few people had said it was fun. So when I popped it in and discovered how great 
 it was I was really surprised. It's a top notch game and I hope to see more titles as inventive 
 as this one come out for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spudacus
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 29, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Once again, Nintendo produces a game that is decidedly out of the box. It takes a franchise that 
 has been done countless times, and again creates a game that manages to be fresh and original. 
 Very fun. Makes great use of the Wii controls. What the game lacks in graphical power, it makes 
 up for in gameplay and a terrific sense of humor. It is certainly worth the price of admission, 
 and it is a must for fans of the Mario games. Part platformer, adventure, and rpg, Paper Mario 
 succeeds at every level. It is another reason why this console has been so successful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RadioactiveApeX
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 29, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is an incredibly fun game that both retains the things that made the original 
 2-D platformers great and adds new content to ensure that the series matures perfectly.
  
  Most of the game is set on a 2-D plane (like the original games of the series) and the player's 
 main objective is to end up at the right side of the level. Like Super Mario World, many of the 
 levels feature doorways leading to branching paths which impede the players progress. Added to 
 the platforming style is a dab of RPG. When Mario (or any of the main characters) jump on an enemy 
 it will do a certain amount of damage (represented by hit points) , so instead of jumping on an 
 enemy once or twice to defeat them, you have to jump on them enough times to deplete their HP. 
 As you progress you will collect points and when you amass a certain number of points your main 
 characters will level up, making it easier to defeat enemies. Also, you can collect cards that 
 allow you to do double damage to the enemies featured on the cards. Each of the main characters 
 has a particular ability needed to progress through the game: Luigi can jump high, Peach can fly, 
 Bowser can breathe fire and do double the amount of damage as all of the other characters, and 
 Mario can flip between 2-D and 3-D. The character will have to use Mario's ability to flip between 
 the two dimensions quite often, but the major problem is that the 3-D realm is not used to it's 
 full potential. Only a certain amount of time can be spent in the 3-D realm, because your health 
 will start to deplete the longer you stay in there, movement is much slower in the 3-D realm than 
 the 2-D realm, making it much harder to move around, and it's also much harder to hit enemies. 
 It doesn't matter too much because the 3-D dimension is only really intended to be used for solving 
 puzzles quickly, but I would've liked to see it used more fully and give the player more of a chance 
 to explore than it did. Over the course of the game, you will collect a certain number of PIxls 
 that allow your character to perform certain functions needed to progress in the game. Each Pixl 
 is used at least several times in the game, so none of them feel like they're there just for fluff. 
 So, aside from the lack of depth to the 3-D realm, the game plays really well.
  
  The controls are different than most other Wii games in that you hold the controller horizontally 
 (like an old NES controller) . The controls are intuitive and easy to use if you've ever played 
 a sidescrolling Mario game before: the D pad is used to run, the 2 button is used to jump, and 
 then the A button is used for Mario's flipping ability and the 1 button is used to harness the 
 power of the PIxl's. The controls work very well for the game and help create the retro vibe of 
 the game.
  
  Although most of the graphics in this game are 2-D, the style in which they are presented is purely 
 awesome. Every part of this world has so many little details to see, like flipping into 3-D to 
 see arrows pointing you in the direction that you need to go, or talking to every character you 
 have to battle in the tournament to see that they each have their own, distinct personality. The 
 3-D features imposed on the 2-D backdrop look amazing as well and even the 3-D world (although 
 it looks relatively bland) fits the artistic themes of the game.
  
  The music in this game borrows greatly from the soundtracks of old Mario games and seems to be 
 more of something in the background than something used to create the atmosphere of the game. The 
 best thing to do with music in this game is listen to each character's theme song when you get 
 the Pixl PIccolo.
  
  First time through, the game will probably last you about 20 hours, without much involvement in 
 sidequests. There are plenty of little sidequests to do after you complete the game however, giving 
 more length to this RPG's relatively short play time.
  
  Overall, this game is a lot of fun and keeps you entertained the entire way through. I found the 
 story to be deeper than I expected from a Mario RPG, to which I was pleasantly surprised. This 
 wacky homage to the platforming days serves as a great addition to any Nintendo fan's fledgling 
 Wii library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 29, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is an adorably cute game full of plenty of style to grab anyone's attention. 
 Despite the interesting artistic choices the gameplay itself doesn't quite measure up to that same 
 standard. Instead of using random battles like in previous Mario RPG games this one takes place 
 in real-time with a more old-school platforming style of gameplay. It's not terribly bad but yet 
 not terribly great either. It's one of those deals where it can be fun jumping on enemies but most 
 of the time you will be running back and forth looking for keys to open the next locked door so 
 you can move on. There's really not that many enemies to pummel and sometimes the puzzles can just 
 be annoying. This causes the pacing problem that the official review from Gamespot mentioned. That 
 and the huge amount of text also slows things down considerably.
  
  Bosses can be enjoyable but the best feature of this game is its humor. Certain parts of the game 
 are just flat out hilarious and make the game worthwhile. The plot is mostly the typical corny-stuff 
 you would probably expect but it's still compelling. Besides the 8 different levels (made up of 
 typically 4 sub-levels) will take you roughly 10-20 hours to complete and theres plenty of diversions 
 withing Flipside and Flopside (considered your base-town in this game) to keep you playing for 
 quite a while.
  
  Super Paper Mario is fun for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkDSpro63
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario seemed like it was gonna get slapped in the face once its brief and unattractive 
 trailer at E3 last year. But my first hands-on with the game has opened my eyes and I've realized 
 that this is one awesome game! It's not really what you call a "super title", but otherwise, it's 
 a fantastic addition to the paper mario series. Super Paper Mario felt like it didn't live up to 
 the hype (which only a few games can) , but it gave me a fresh new experience like every new game 
 or sequel should.
  
  The story is even more deep than the last 2 Paper Marios. Theres a ton of dialogue.. too much of 
 it really. You'll eventually reach to the point where you wish the characters would just drop dead 
 and shut up. But some of the dialogue is fun to read and hilarious as it should be. Super Paper 
 Mario isn't the right game for little kids. Why? Well, if they like reading a lot, then maybe it 
 is. There is just too much to read and listen to. If you get too angry with too much talking in 
 the game, I would not advise throwing the Wii remote at the television. YOU'VE BEEN WARNED!
  
  As the story goes, a book called the Dark Prognosticus is a book that holds tales of negative 
 outcomes of events that will eventually happen in the future. A race of ancient people created 
 a book called the Light Prognosticus to counteract the dark one in order to stop it from fulfilling 
 th evil prohecies. Now, a new villian known as Count Bleck hold posession of the Dark Prognosicus 
 and decides to destroy the universe. Who can stop him? It's none other than the famous Italian 
 plumber himself along with his bro, his lady, and his longtime rival.
  
  Super Paper Mario is a 2D platformer with some RPG elements. The style of the game is different 
 than the previous two Paper Mario games, but some of the RPG aspects are still there: Leveling, 
 hit points, items, etc. The 2D-3D flipping gets some time to get used to. But other than that, 
 you'll be using it for most of the clever puzzles in the game. For once, you'll be using other 
 characters other than Mario for once. Peach will be used for crossing huge gaps with her parasol, 
 Bowser will be used destroy everything with his fire breath, and Luigi will be used for super jumps, 
 as he is famous for.
  
  Overall, this game was really fun to play. I'm taking a guess, but you'll be playing the game for 
 around 20+ hours or so. I was slightly disappointed with underused attack items and underused minor 
 characters. Since Mario is the only character that can flip 2D-3D, or vise-versa, you won't be 
 using Peach, Bowser, and Luigi that much. But other than that, this game was a hell of a lot of 
 fun. I felt a little cheated though. Some of the puzzles seemed extremely obvious, and the boss 
 battles (besides the last two) weren't as challenging as I had hoped they'd be. However, I highly 
 recommend this game to retro fans, people looking for a fresh new experience, or someone that just 
 enjoyed the other Paper Mario games. Things may have changed, but it's still Paper Mario. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Redline
Rating: 4.7
Date: Apr 29, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is one of those games that gets hyped soo much, you just have to play it. But 
 when you do play it you wish you had of gone to Wal Mart, went down the appliance aisle, picked 
 up a toaster and beat yourself over the head with it. If you haven't gotten the jist of it yet, 
 I am saying this game is crap. I rented it the day it hit the shelves and I will admit, I had a 
 little fun playing the game when I first got it home. But once I hit chapter 3, the game's repetitiveness 
 got to me and I lost all interest in it. That's not good considering I only bought a Wii for Super 
 Paper Mario and Mario Galaxy. The visuals are far from stunning, as they are basically the exact 
 same quality as the Gamecube. The Wii is supposed to be Nintendo's big Next Gen system, but it 
 can't hold a candle to the other big systems on the market today. Super Paper Mario will keep you 
 entertained for a while, but after about an hour or 2 of playtime the gimmick of flipping from 
 2D to 3D will get old, and you'll be left wondering what's next. Rent it, dont buy it. Money would 
 be better spent on something else.... Perhaps that toaster I mentioned earlier? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 28, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Ok let me start out by saying that I have a huge problem with just about every single gamesite 
 review. Why? Because every single reviewer has some weird problem with reading. I just don't understand; 
 If the writing was horrible with this amount of reading involved I would understand; but complaining 
 about having to read a great story with amazing dialogue, which develops a mario story completely 
 different than its predecessors. I mean how lazy do you have to be when reading becomes a problem 
 to people. If the story was under developed people would have complained; if the dialogue was cheese, 
 people would have complained; but I guess you can also add great story elements and great dialogue 
 to that list of Game Industry Don'ts!! In my opinion, if your to lazy or dumb to read the text 
 for this 20+ hour game you should either go back to 3rd Grade Billy Madison style or just stop 
 playing video games completely because you the prime reason why gamers get a bad rap. READING IS 
 A GOOD THING; especially when its a great story!! YOU DON T COMPLAIN ABOUT GOOD STORIES!!
  
  Story:
  While on the subject of reading lets discuss the story! First, this is nothing like 
 you have ever READ. Do me a favor, think of every single mario game. Now think of the premise, 
 now think of the most random thing possible... like Corey Feldman naked doing Tequila shots off 
 the belly of a very very expensive hooker; you know the kind of the hooker that would charge you 
 extra for kissing... WHAT?? Seriously, I don't want to give away the story because I hate it when 
 people ruin good stories. So just trust me on this one, the story is fun and exciting and nothing 
 like you would imagine. Lets put it this way, this games story would be closer to a final fantasy 
 or Zelda title than a Mario game; catch my drift.
  
  Gameplay:
  Ok now that I'm done ranting lets get to the review. First and foremost, this game is a Platformer 
 with some Adventure/RPG elements. What I mean by this is; Platforming is the primary gameplay element, 
 running jumping, squeezing the life out of goombas and Koopa Troopers; great fun all around. In 
 Mario's predecessors, you ran from the beginning of the level to the end with amazing 2D side scrolling 
 action. The new twist to this game is the 3D elements that has been added on top of the 2D aspect. 
 Which is the case at first, until the paranoia that is OH crap did I miss something!! sets in. 
 After a couple of hours, you will begin to realize that every time you enter a new area you switch 
 to 3D; after a while it becomes second nature, but those first couple of hours I personally felt 
 like as if I overlooked something in the level. As I stated this fear is quickly distraught as 
 the level design truly beings to shine. To put it simply, in the 20 so hours I played, I never 
 once felt lost or even confused as to what the designers were trying to accomplish in each level. 
 Which in my opinion is the greats cause of disstress for most games in these kind of games. While 
 I'm on the level designers a giant Kudos goes out to them for such hilarious themes, including: 
 retro mario levels, space, pixilated forest/castle, and countless others that will surely bring 
 a smile to your face. Unfortunately, the only gameplay mechanic that felt tacked on was the RPG 
 elements. In the previous installment of Paper mario, the user could personalize mario in however 
 why they saw fit; did you want mario to be a total badass? Well, it was possible in the previous 
 game since after leveling ever attribute point could go into mario's attack power. This game doesn't 
 allow for that level of customization, instead the game picks a category to level regardless of 
 the event or user preference. I feel, the RPG elements are dumb down and nonexistent; if you haven't 
 figured out yet I'm kind of a old-school rpg fan which is exactly what Thousand Year door was.
 
  
  Graphics &amp; stuff
  The graphics for Super paper mario is exactly the same as Thousand year door. Now I love how the 
 art style is inventive and corky but for all you graphic whores you will probably be disappointed. 
 OOOH NO A DEVELOPER ACTUALLY TRYING TO CREATE SOMETHING SWEET AND ARTISTIC; NOT JUST PUSH POLYGONS.. BOOOOO 
 HOOOOO!! Give over it and just play this game. The only downer to this game personally is that 
 the soundtrack isn't totally amazing like every other mario game. Its sad because up until this 
 point I have cherished mario game soundtracks; they always seem to bring back my youthful days... 
 ohh man being 5 was totally awesome!! Other than that, the sound effects and overall presentation 
 is pretty sweet and stays true to the mario experience.
  
  Now, I know that many of the Wii games haven't had a great sense of epoch or grand feel. Even though 
 this game and Zelda Twilight princess were originally gamecube games, I will give nintendo the 
 benefit of the doubt and just say that they rule the school like Cory Feldman?? I have got to stop 
 talking about that guy!! In the end, if you like old school platforming mario games with a hint 
 of RPG elements and a pinch of adventuring than your going to love this game. P. S: Oh and by the 
 way, all you tards that think this game has poor presentations due to lack of voice work. Guess 
 what, you have a mouth right, do your own voice work and shut up already about mario and Link talking!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBoi_24
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 28, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Another Paper Mario game that will never surpass the first. Some new features and slightly yet hardly 
 refined graphics custom to the wii. Not exactly next-gen. Doesn't fully utilize the controller 
 but has solid gameplay. Glad they stuck with the basic rpg design with some new gameplay. I like 
 it but once again i will never give a wii game graphic points above a 3. Sorry Nintendo but your 
 graphics flatout suck. Keep up what you get and hopefully Super Mario Galaxy will finally deliver 
 on at least most front. Im cheerin ya on Nintendo. MAKE US PROUD. (whispers) Cause right now Microsoft 
 is kicking your @$$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chefstubbies
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 27, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario wasn't a game I even thought I would enjoy, but boy was I wrong. The exploration 
 and the insane amount of secret finding is giving me hours and hours of fun. Swapping characters 
 during gameplay, each with their own abilities keeps the action fresh. The difficulty is pretty 
 easy, it would have been nice to see some sort of adjustable difficulty, therefor enhancing the 
 immediate replay value. But as a mario game, this is definately one of my favorites for sure. My 
 daughter is playing it as well, and is struggling with parts that i breezed through, making it 
 clear that unlike games like GTA, this is one that the whole family can play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firehawk110
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 27, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  well, i got super paper mario for my birthday a week ago and I beat it in 2 days. But don't let 
 that make you think its short, its an extremely long game that took me 17 hours to beat. Really 
 the game is a big mixture of RPG elements from the other paper mario games, but is mainly a platformer. 
 you fight enemies the way you would in classic mario platformers but can perform combos by shaking 
 the wii remote. you can also flip the landscape from 2-d to 3-d. Its a cool idea, but somehow i 
 found that you don't use the technique quite as much as I thought you would. the gameplay isn't 
 exactly what I'd call addictive like people say it is, or all that fun, which is kind of dissapointing. 
 As you get to the few final chapters in the game, the story gets more dramatic and the plot is 
 done almost perfectly, which is the reason I gave it a higher rating, you'll see what I'm talking 
 about especially in the final chapter, and the last cutscene. The idea is about count bleck wanting 
 to destroy all worlds and the 4 heros stopping him with alot of dramatic parts near the end and 
 alot of suspence as certain parts of the story are revealed. They're fantastic. You can also play 
 as peach, bowser, and luigi (you find luigi in chapter 7, but you play him for what feels like 
 a long part of the game) . The main flaw of super paper mario is that it isn't all that fun. As 
 you get further into the game, the levels become more maze-like and complicated, and you have to 
 remember where you have to go which is kind of hard. When people say this game is easy, they mean 
 defeating the enemies, which is true, the main challenge is going through doors and figuring out 
 what to do, which is definetley an RPG element in the game. Overall, I was kind of dissapointed 
 with Super paper mario. Its kind of fun, but the levels get more complicated and tricky as you 
 continue. But the reason I didn't give it under 8 was because of the amazing plot and storyline. 
 So you should at least check the game out and get some experience with it before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Mario-Fan
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 27, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is the third game in the Paper Mario series, but unlike the first two games, 
 this one focuses more on Mario's platforming abilities. The way the developers adjusted the gameplay 
 from GameCube controls (this was originally planned as a GC game) to Wii controls was very thought 
 out. In this game, you hold the Wii remote sideways like an NES controller. The 2 button is for 
 jumping and the 1 button is for you pixels. You try to save multiple worlds from succumbing to 
 a black hole which grows larger as you progress through the game. There are four players total, 
 each with their own strengths and weaknesses along with several pixels. Tippi will always be by 
 your side until you beat the game, but the other pixels need to be swapped out from time to time. 
 The graphics look about the same as Paper Mario 2 for the GameCube, and the sounds haven't changed 
 much either. The game offers over 20 hours of gameplay, but some parts can get repetitive at times 
 (such as when you have to work off rubies in chapter 2) . Overall it is another solid game in the 
 growing library of awesome Wii titles. Try at least renting it if you can find it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natebayne
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 27, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  I followed the progress of this game for a short while, hoping that it would be a good one to play. 
 It has a neat idea to it, and it was fun for about 1 hour.
  From what I actually played the game was very repetitive. The ability to switch from 2d to 3d was 
 neat for a very short while but then it just became a bother. The storyline was very generic and 
 the use of the Wii remote was very weak. Super Paper Mario is basically like going back in time 
 and playing a slightly amped up Super Mario Bros with a small storyline. I was very dissapointed 
 and I await Super Mario Galaxy which looks fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: immortality20
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 27, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  What can I say about Super Paper Mario that already hasn't been said? The platforming is good? 
 The level design has its peakes and low points? The graphics might be outdated?
  
  So?
  
  This game had me wanting to play more right from the begginning. Not only do I find Luigi and 
 Mario's grunts amusing, it makes me laugh just thinking about it. Mario utters few words in this 
 game, and what do you expect? Can you put a voice to Mario?
  
  But, I do stray. Writing reviews is never an easy task. Do I say how it effects me personally, 
 do I say how it could effect you? Do I talk about history? All of the above? Super Paper Mario 
 was being heavily hyped after the excellent showing from the GC (at least to the critics, not so 
 much from this reviewer) . In a land of drought we saw our fountain of youth. Not only does Mario 
 make us feel younger, he makes us act younger. I was yelling at the screen when I got cheaply drained 
 of the ability to jump, I laughed at the funny lines Bowser said, and I was interested in the fairy 
 tale story.
  
  Is the game fun? Heck yes! Switching to 3D seemed like a dumb move to me. But it really expands 
 the sometimes linear level design. It adds deph to puzzles. It makes you switch back and forth 
 constantly looking for that secret you think is there. Not only that, but add in the platforming, 
 mixed with leveling up, and fun use of your pixl friends, this makes for one interesting game. 
 The story may be a little cliche, but the way it is presented totally nulls this fact. It is just 
 fun to read for once in a Nintendo game (yes, this can happen) . I apologize to my dear readers 
 for repeating myself, but I cannot stress this enough, the game has its flaws but its the beauty 
 in these flaws which makes it so fun. Yes, the camera can be a pain when you go to 3D, but man 
 it doesn't matter. Yes, there is reading, and sometimes cliche lines, but the humerous shots at 
 us gamers and the history of characters far outweighs the pains of reading. Yes, you will mainly 
 use Mario, but this a Mario game! He is your star and we love him. You'll probably be like me and 
 switch to Bowser in boss fights though. Major damage!
  
  I heard complaining about the graphics. I do not have a gripe with them. They are so cleverly done 
 that I don't mind the last gen feel. I enjoy looking at this more then Perfect Dark Zero.
  
  Add the excelling main quest with a whole new experience after you are done, you will be amazed 
 at the time you sink into it. The main story arc will take you at least 20 hours if you're fully 
 enjoying it, and after that? Well thats up to you for the most part. If you own a Wii you probably 
 already own this game. If you don't, it would be a smart move to think about purchasing it. This 
 game does not use the Wiimote much (just to point at hidden doors, and get styled attacks ) , but 
 you will notice nor care. This is my favorite game in the Paper Mario series (ironically the lowest 
 rated by critics) , and my favorite on the Wii yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infectbda
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 26, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario has turned out to be an even better experience than I expected. The game mechanics, 
 the mix between RPG and classic platforming, and the stunning 2D-to-3D game element make SPM a 
 must-have game for the Wii. I also really liked the fact that Intelligent didn't start throwing 
 random and unnecessary Wiimote features in. They added little touches of the controller that further 
 accent the game, as opposed to just muddling things up.
  
  I have just three small complaints about the game: -The last few chapters are sort of a disappointment 
 in relation to the rest of the game
  -The game is too easy for the most part. -I wish it were longer (since I already almost beat it)
 
  
  I am really hoping sales are good enough for a sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azaam
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 26, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  The story of this game is quite interesting, and as usual, it includes bowser and peach. The gameplay 
 is quite good wheres you can switch from 2-D to 3-D which is quite fun although i rather miss the 
 Paper Mario's 'Turn-taking' fights in the first Paper Mario and the 'Thousand Year Door' version. 
 The fighting is mostly real-time whereas you usually just jump on the enemy's head like in the 
 classic mario games. I must say that the graphics are phenomenal, to the fact that the colours 
 just engage you and make you want to play more. The music in the game is really quite catchy and 
 fun to listen to. Overall i think that this game is worth getting, it is a good game to keep you 
 from boredom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bededog
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 25, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is the last big game to hit the Wii for a while so naturally I just had to review 
 to make sure its worth you time to get. And luckily it is and more.
  
  Super Paper Mario is the third Paper Mario game to date. SPM keeps a similar story line to the 
 rest, but it takes a new spin on the series. Instead of being a RPG it is now a Platformer with 
 some RPG elements from the past games.
  
  Super Paper Mario beings with Mario and Luigi in their house when a Toad comes up to them and tells 
 them that the Princess has been stolen! What a shocker! So Mario and Luigi go off to save the Princess, 
 but what they find is very, very, disturbing. The Princess hasnt been stolen, she is marrying 
 Bowser!: O Luckily, sorta, this is actually a trick by the fiend Count Bleck to revive the Chaos 
 Heart, a vile thing that gives him power to destroy all worlds. As such Mario sets off on an adventure 
 to stop Count Bleck.
  
  Mario is then transported to the town of Flipside. To stop Count Bleck Mario meets a person named 
 Merlee. Merlee tells Mario about the Pure Hearts, they are mystical items that are needed if Mario 
 ever wants to stop Count Bleck. So Mario heads off to the first Pure Heart.
  
  Each Pure Heart has its own world with 4 levels in each world. To complete the level you must jump, 
 fight, and flip you way to the end of the level. You hold the Wiimote on its side and use the D-Pad 
 to control Mario. You use the 2 button for jumping and the 1 button for Pixl abilities; will get 
 to them later. As you go through the levels Mario will gain the ability to flip from 2-D to 3-D 
 with the press of the A button. This is the main mechanic of the game and is used in many puzzles 
 in the game. Dont know how to get past that wall? Flip! Cant find where to go next? Flip! With 
 all the advantages of being in 3-D why not stay in that mode all the time? Why because you get 
 hurt if you stay in 3-D too long, thats why! The only bad things about the controls are the gimmicky 
 controls that you use for some items, it clearly shows the game is essentially a GC game; it was 
 originally planed to be on the GC but switched to Wii.
  
  SPM is a Platformer and as such you should know what to do. You jump, stomp on enemies, go through 
 pipes, eat Mushrooms to gain health What doesnt eating Mushrooms make you bigger? Glad you asked 
 that. SPM has a health meter instead of a hit me and Im dead thing like other Mario games. And 
 you can get stronger if you gain a level by beating enough opponents. If you ever played a past 
 Paper Mario game you should be familiar with these RPG elements, but sadly that is the only RPG 
 elements in the game. Now then, Mario isnt the only one in the game. As you play you will be joined 
 by Peach, Bowser, and Luigi. Each one has a special ability to help you progress. And your journey 
 you will meet and collect characters called Pixls. The Pixls have a wide verity of abilities to 
 help Mario and co. on their quest; such as Boomer who can, as you might have guessed by the name, 
 blow up bricks and cracked walls. While the Pixls do add a lot of depth to the game there are so 
 many of them that you will rarely use half of them. While you are playing SPM get your reading 
 glasses read, because there is a truck load of text in this game. Especially at the beginning of 
 the game; the first cut scenes have text after text after text. I mean it is very funny at times, 
 one of he funniest games out there. But it just gets annoying after a while. And there are no voice-overs 
 at all. Okay, lets go onto the graphics of the game. They are what you would expect from a Paper 
 Mario game, and a ported GC game. It has the classic Paper cutout look of Paper Mario games, and 
 there isnt anything wrong with that. And the backgrounds have a very stylized look to them that 
 is great. But some things, mainly opponents and some item boxes look weird in 3-D. Besides that 
 the graphics are great. As with many games sound is a little iffy. SPM has the tunes of other Mario 
 games, and new tunes. None of the music or sound effects will impress you. But I cant really complain 
 too much. It gets the job done but nothing is really that good.
  
  Overall SPM is a great game and every Wii owner should own it. Its a fairly long game and has 
 a great story and is very funny. It has great graphics and controls well. This is a game that you 
 should not miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicknees93
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 25, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games out there for the Wii. The innovative control scheme of flipping into 3-D 
 is pure genius. Plus the RPG elements really take the cake. I couldnt have asked for a more fufilling 
 game. Graphics are obviously going to be 2-D and they are quirky and funny. I loved the graphics. 
 Besides, it's not about the graphics, it's about the gameplay. If you don't have the money to buy 
 it, why not try renting from Gamefly? Then you can keep it as long as you want. Otherwise.... if 
 you haven't already picked this game up, you DEFINITELY should!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makensha
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 25, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game, I had wories that it would be gimmicky. It isn't. The 2-D platforming 
 is as fun as it should be, though it doesn't break out of the box in any important way. Fans of 
 platformers or RPGs should definnetly get this game. The graphic style is light-hearted, as it 
 incorporates 2-dimensional characters with 3-dimensional enviroments. The sound were good, but 
 not outstanding in any way. The flatforming is mostly solid. When you flip into 3-D; however, the 
 controls aren't as well put together as you might hope, and aiming a jump is a bit more difficult. 
 It's a very fun game, just too easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tudio
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 25, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is a platformer RPG, it follows the same papery Mario design but it builds on 
 it and tosses away the turn based battles. The graphics are great if you are already familiar with 
 them. The gameplay is fun and the idea of pixls is nice as a substitute for the helpers in the 
 previous paper Mario games. The idea to flip to 3D from 2D is quite innovative, and really does 
 make a difference to the levels. The only complain to flippin to 3D is the perspective and camera, 
 it's kinda like Crash Bandicoot 3D of the old days. Multiple characters is nice with the ability 
 to switch on the fly. Mario flips to 3D, Bowser breathes fire and is the strongest, Princess Peach 
 can float with the umbrella and Luigi can jump high.
  
  One thing is the absence of voice acting, it would have really been nice if we were treated with 
 it. Instead we still have to read through all that text, and it is quite a lot. Music is nice but 
 nothing outstanding, just the regular Mario tunes remixed and some new familiar sounding new ones.
 
  
  The story is the save the worlds scenario, with a little bit of tragedy ending on a happy note. 
 It's quite nice with a nice twist at the end. Luigi's role is quite humorous, and there are references 
 to the previous Paper Mario entries.
  All in all its a great game and welcome addition to any Wii library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reggie186
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 24, 2007 2:04 am PT
Review:  In the recent drought of quality Wii games, Super Paper Mario was released, sort of like a gift 
 from the gaming gods for us Wii owners with little to do. The game is everything you would expect 
 from Nintendo: funny, engaging, and most of all it's just plain fun.
  
  The evil Count Bleck is trying to evaporate the entire world. Mario, with the help of some new 
 creatures called Pixls (think different abilities, but embodied in fairy form) and some other Mushroom 
 Kingdom personalities must band together to keep the Count from negating all existence.
  
  There are various reasons why Super Paper Mario can be called a unique platformer. First of all, 
 when Mario jumps on the heads of enemies (because, let's face it, that's what Mario does best) 
 he doesn't just smash them, but instead takes away some of their hit points. Smaller enemies can 
 be killed in one hop, but the bigger ones usually need a bit more than that. Every time you kill 
 an enemy, you get experience points that allow Mario to level up. All of these RPG elements really 
 spice up the traditional platforming style of the game, and make the game feel surprisingly fresh.
 
  
  Mario has the ability to flip his world into 3D, allowing easier access around pipes or enemies. 
 While this is a really good idea, and very exciting for the first few hours, switching back and 
 forth throughout the game to solve puzzles or jump around a level just gets really annoying. It's 
 one of those ideas that is cool in concept, but doesn't make the game any more fun.
  
  SPM is pretty long, with the main quest taking you anywhere from 15 to 20 hours to complete. Apart 
 from the main quest there are a few different things game completists are going to feel like they 
 have to do. First off, when you collect various food items in-game, you can take them to the chef 
 in town to make a new item. Every time you make a new item with her, she writes down the recipe. 
 There are 96 recipes in all.
  
  Another side quest involves card collecting. Throughout the levels, you will find cards with (usually) 
 the face of a particular type on enemy on them. The cards are useful because it allows you to have 
 stronger attacks against the enemies that you have cards for. Also, if one were so inclined, one 
 could search for all 250+ cards in the game (some of them being very rare) . It seems like a tedious 
 task to someone such as myself, but I can see where maybe this could be done if you have a really 
 boring week sometime this summer.
  
  The graphics of the game are very unique, but by no means does anything in the game push the Wii's 
 hardware to new heights. The art style is charming with its childish qualities, but at the same 
 time, it would be nice to see what my $250 gaming machine is REALLY capable of.
  
  All in all, I think this game is a very good addition to any Wii collection. It will last you a 
 good chunk of time, it's fun, and hey, it's Mario. For some, that is reason enough to pick up this 
 title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Herrn
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 24, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  I guess that you have played the earlier versions of Super Mario on whatever console, but this 
 is just a little bit more than usual..
  
  With the implented 3D style of gaming when you get stuck, the game gets extremely innovating and 
 it just makes you wanna laugh how cool and stupid the whole idea is! (no really, just cool...)
 
  
  Great usage of the Wiimote too. No too much, not too little. Just perfect.
  It's the way of gameplay in this particulary game that makes you wanna shout: THIS IS AWSOME!!
 
  
  The only thing that gets quite annoying sometimes, is the fact that you have to return to the god-forsaken 
 town with the little outer-space creatures that God forgot during his creation of all living things. 
 Buuuut I guess we can just turn away our eyes from TV during the sad little moments in that sad 
 little world.
  
  In my oppinion, Super Mario should be linear. VERY linear. The Town must go! Otherwise, it might 
 have taken it all, but sorry, couldnt give away a higher score than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swrdof1000trths
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 23, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  If you've ever played Paper Mario , or it's sequel you can't help but be interested in the story. 
 It's a fun , engaging, humorous series with lots of hillarious dialogue and animation. Super Paper 
 Mario is the same, but different. They have gotten rid of Paper Mario's greatest weakness and transformed 
 it into a genius of a game. Paper Mario is no longer turnbased. It's in fact, more of a sidescrolling 
 rpg now. I've never played anything like it. I'm sure it had some inspiration from something else 
 but it sure seems innovative and ingenius. I'm not only talking about the sidescrolling rpg elements, 
 but the ability to switch from 2d to 3d. It's amazing. One of a kind. Why can't more games be like 
 this? Intelligent Systems has to be one of my favorite developers. They incorporate puzzle solving 
 perfectly into the games unique 2d-3d switching parts. It's just nice to see what a place looks 
 like in 3d.
  
  However...3d mode only lasts a limited amount of time, or you lose some of Mario's health. And 
 nobody wants that. You can't stay in 3d too long so you have to keep switching back and forth. 
 It's not as annoying as it sounds, but I would have liked longer 3d vision. On second thought, 
 I wouldn't. The 3d landscapes are not detailed enough and have very little going on. The graphics 
 are not quite as pretty in 3d. They are more bare. And gameplay doesn't work so great in 3d mode. 
 You still use the D-pad, I guess they didn't wanna go through the trouble of the nunchuk for this 
 one. While Super Paper Mario isn't perfect, the faults listed above keep it from being so, it is 
 still an ingenious work of art that will last you a long time and keep you interested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreenXMega
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 23, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to review this according to my friend's opinion of the game when he played it to my opinions. 
 GRAPHICS: 9 An awesome mixture of 2D and 3D graphics that are worth looking in 480p. There are 
 also nice details if you look at them closely in 3D.
  
  AUDIO (Music-wise) : 10 Very nice music.... just cannot stop listening to them!
  
  AUDIO (Sound-wise) : 
 8 I thought it was better than what the critics thought because it has some of the same sounds 
 as Paper Mario 2, plus the usual sound when somebody's talking, which is perhaps the worst part 
 of the sound even if it's not annoying.
  
  AUDIO (Voice-over) : 6 Apart from the exclamations from Mario, this is just another one of those 
 games which you have to look closely at the TV to read.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 9 It is a very creative game, but the boss battles, according to my friend, are too easy. 
 I found it weird that you even get experience points even for just using items.
  
  DIFFICULTY: 7 Although the game has a Mario-esque difficulty when it comes to the stages themselves, 
 especially if you don't think about using the stinking 2D to 3D and vice versa button, but the 
 boss battles only consist of jumping on top of enemies heads, which is too easy for my friend, 
 and he found the final boss to be similar to an anti-climatic ending.
  
  REPLAY VALUE: 8 It's a very fun game to play until the end, but after that, the only thing left 
 to do is to complete the Pit to 100 Trails. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KEITH1437
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 23, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  This is one great gem on the Wii. I am a big fan of paper mario but when I heard that it was going 
 to be a platformer, I was a little disappointed. But let me tell you, there is not much to be disappointed 
 about in this game. This is a great game. The game is played around the idea that, of course, the 
 world is ending. I know you're probably thinking Bowser is behind it . Well then you can think 
 again because we have a new villan in the universe, Count Bleck! So your thinking, what? Well, 
 Count Bleck wants to destroy the universe and create his own. To do that he must fufill the prophecy 
 the Dark Prognostics foretold. The prophecy said that when Bowser and Peach get married, it would 
 rip the very fabric of time and space. So it is up to mario to save all universes. But, mario is 
 not alone, along his journey he meets creatures called pixls which can do strange things like make 
 you invisible or float you over spikes. Mario also finds other characters like Peach, Bowser, and 
 Luigi, which all have their own special abilites. Thats all I'll say about this. This is one of 
 only a handful of must buy Wii games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aguynamedbrad
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 23, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Wow, what can I say about this game? It's without-a-doubt the best game currently available on 
 the Wii. It's a fun and addicting game that will keep you entertained for hours. Super Paper Mario 
 still retains the familiar sense of humor that the previous Paper Mario games had. On top of all 
 that, visually, the game looks amazing. I never thought graphics this simple could look so great. 
 The graphics also give the game a more nostalgic and old-school look. My only complaint is the 
 amount of dialogue. VERY wordy! I also wish the game was a little bit longer. It's still definitely 
 a must own. I gotta say, Nintendo also gets it right with the Paper Mario series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCarl
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 23, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  I'm always in for a Mario game, let me make that clear. I thoroughly enjoyed Paper Mario: Thousand 
 Year Door (TYD from now on) for its great presentation, great story and lengthy adventure. Super 
 Paper Mario continues with the majority of the good things from TYD but also takes a step back 
 in some areas.
  
  The graphical presentation and sound effects found in TYD are back and as good as they were but 
 the story and the pacing of the game took a hit. The story follows the tried and true formula of: 
 1) recover X items, 2) beat the baddies. In an effort to keep continuity in Mario games, somewhere, 
 someone has it written in stone that there must be 8 worlds. No more, no less. This is where the 
 pacing problem comes in. Some of the latter worlds feel forced. Trimming the amount of worlds (or 
 maybe a level or two out of each) and distilling the gameplay a bit to make a more solid game (although 
 shorter) would have been beneficial overall.
  
  The flipping from 2D to 3D is a great addition and makes for some really unique level design and 
 puzzles. I implore Nintendo to use this gameplay feature again. This feature alone is worth picking 
 this game up. Having four party members also expands the puzzle possibility (Playing as Peach is 
 weird...) .
  
  The game offers some replay and side elements. Allowing you to reenter into previously finished 
 areas to utilize the abilities gained later in the game, you can collect cards and other items. 
 With the addition of the card collecting quest, and the Pit of 100 Trials, the game could easily 
 hit the 25-30 hour mark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackBauer123
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 22, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit that I am glad that they went with a change of pace and made it an action/RPG platformer. 
 Eventually, I would like the series to be just an RPG again. The game play is very creative and 
 it brings me back to when I was 3 and playing Super Mario World. When I first heard that it was 
 a 2D platformer, I was disappointed, but the ability to flip to 3D makes the game makes the game. 
 The creative art style is what prompted me to give it a 10 in graphics. I have read that there 
 are pacing issues with later levels, but I haven't gotten that far, yet. They could have made the 
 game harder, though. When I am playing this over GRAW2, you know it's good!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvader654
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 22, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is a hard game to review cause there never really has been anything like it. 
 Its a mix of old school Mario; side scrolling action, bopping on enemies heads to kill them; with 
 paper mario and its more puzzle filled levels and RPG elements. Those looking for a well made platformer 
 are not going to be happy, this game definetly is Paper Mario, just from a new perspective and 
 with no turn based battles. This is where it kind of falls short, I don't think it does either 
 half excellently. But overall the game is still a blast to play.
  
  The gameplay as you know is like SMB. You hold the wiimote like an old NES pad, only a few buttons 
 control all the action. Really its all you need, the controls are superb, I find it hard to believe 
 this was not a wii game from the start. The hook of the game is that Mario can flip the game to 
 a 3D point of view, some things you can only see or traverse in 3D so this flip mechanic is a major 
 part of the gameplay. It works just fine, its used in so many ways whether its combat, finding 
 secrets, or just a puzzle it works well. As you play you get other characters to join your party, 
 each have their own skills but you won't need those skills nearly as much as Mario and his flipping 
 ability. You also find pixls which give you a certain skill like produce a bomb, or shrink, become 
 flat, have a hammer, etc. It all comes together to keep the game fresh, you are finding a new skill 
 just at the right moment, these skills are used throughout the whole game. There is a lot of combat 
 in this game, those used to clasic Mario will be shocked to see so many enemies of different types. 
 Many have certain ways to kill them, like having to flip to run around to their back to damage 
 them. Everything goes by hit points, just like paper mario. Here is where the game gets a bit uneven, 
 the combat kind of becomes very easy. Your characters are always far more powerful than the enemies, 
 especially as the game goes on. After a while they just become obstacles in your path. I'm not 
 saying it isn't fun to fight them, it is, its just with old school Mario the enemies where designed 
 to be obstacles in the levels. The levels themselves were the challenge, it was the platforming 
 that tied everything together. Well this game has very little platforming, when it does its all 
 very simple. So when you take away the platforming aspect and just leave the enemies it kind of 
 feels half assed, a bunch of enemies never really made the Mario games special, it was always the 
 level designs. The game does have some very well made stages but in a Paper Mario way, its a lot 
 more about exploring and puzzle solving, not jumping skills. So the puzzle aspect seems well done 
 but the combat feels to easy. The old Paper Mario games combat while turn based at least put to 
 use many of your skills and items, it worked well for the type of game it was. This game after 
 a while you just jump or hit everything with a hammer and they go down easy. The combat didn't 
 get the same care as the puzzles, but thats what happens when you go the real time combat route, 
 Mario games never had complex combat. The funny thing, and why I say this game is hard to review 
 is that I perfer this real time combat any time over the turn based battles of PM. I just wish 
 the stages matched the combat, the stages are stuck with the old PM in mind while the combat is 
 SMB, it sends mixed signals to your head. So what I am saying in the end is that the combat elements 
 of Mario aren't nearly as fun when the platforming elements are pulled from the levels.
  
  But the levels themselves can be rather well done. Most levels involve running around the stages, 
 looking for hidden paths to find a key to unlock the next door. Some stages are designed really 
 well, for instance level 3-1 it has great puzzles, it has a recreation of level 1-2 of SMB with 
 some new secrets thrown in, the pacing is great and there is an excellent mini-boss. In that level 
 you see the genius of mixing the real time combat with the SPM way of puzzles and such. But for 
 every great level there seems to be a level that doesn't work well at all. These levels usually 
 have you do something very tedious like hold down left for four minutes (no lie) , or remember codes. 
 Some of the levels seem like they weren't trying, you go from excellent levels where you see the 
 beauty of SMB and PM coming together in perfect harmony mixed with levels where you get the sense 
 that these two games dont work well together. The lack of consistency in the quality of the levels 
 is by far the worst aspect of the game and for me ultimately stops it from being truely excellent. 
 But don't fret, most of the stages are of the good kind. As I said before when the stages work 
 its like magic. Ok I got most of my complaints out of the way, luckly there is a lot more good 
 than bad to talk about. Mixed in to the normal gameplay there are some really cool moments that 
 are very unique and original. Many of these happen when you reach a certain boss or location. Speaking 
 of bosses many are well done and in classic Nintendo fashion make use of whatever new skill you 
 just earned. The dialog is an aspect worth mentioning, its laugh out loud funny at times, there 
 is a certain charm to the whole game, you have to love it.
  
  If you try to just run through the game as fast as possible you can probably beat it in 15-20 hours, 
 but I hope you take the time to explore many of the side quests the game has to offer. Most of 
 them take place in the town hub of the game, flipside. Here you will meet a large cast of charaters 
 and the usual inn, store, resturant, etc you find in Paper Mario games. As you learn skills you 
 continously uncover more hidden areas to the town, many lead to some great side quests. One of 
 the best is the arcade, here you get some mini games that make use of the wiimote, the best by 
 far being the boo shooting game. I killed many hours just messing around in the town, to me it 
 made the whole game experience that much better.
  
  The graphics are in that unique paper cutout stylle that Paper Mario games are known for. I think 
 they just took the same models as in PM2 and just stuck them in here. The graphics are not wow 
 worthy or anything but since its like a cartoon its not bad, for the stylle it is its excellent. 
 The music is rather simplistic, don't go expecting any giant orchestral score. Many stages use 
 remixed Mario music which I personally love.
  
  Super Paper Mario I think is easily the next best Wii game besides Zelda. Its a very fullfilling 
 lengthy adventure, you are defintely getting more than enough content to justify a purchase. It 
 might not be as well done as other PM games but the real time combat and fast paced nature of this 
 game makes up for it, I bet many of you will end up perfering it to old PM gameplay. I just wish 
 they would have incorporated more platforming elements, balance the SMB aspect of the game so that 
 its equal to the PM aspect of it, for the most part this game is PM 3. Maybe in the next game they 
 find the right balance to make it that extra bit special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oceanshoreview
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 22, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  It's nice to see the Wii get another good game as it's been collecting dust lately since everything 
 has been pushed back to the fall. Super Paper Mario delivers in full on everything that I had hoped 
 it would.
  
  Super Paper Mario is another RPG alike the other two Paper Mario games, however it delivers quite 
 a difference in it's gameplay style. A very good change to. Where the old games were slow in there 
 exploring and very slow in there turn-based battles this game keeps moving alike the platforming 
 titles. You never have to go into a battle screen or anything, you battle the enemies right there 
 by jumping on top of them (most of the time) . However, its not one hit kills like the platformers, 
 you do damage, you have health and they have health. Some may take upwards 10 jumps, some only 
 1, it all depends.
  
  You will gain a handful of little friends to help along the way as well (just as the other games 
 did) . These friends will let you do things like shrink, user a hammer, ground pound, turn paper 
 thin, etc. You'll have to use these guys to solve puzzles throughout the levels and work your way 
 to the Pure Hearts.
  
  The Pure Hearts are the main focus of this game. You have to collect all 8 of the Pure Hearts to 
 stop the void from consuming all of the worlds. And it will be quite a journey as there is a lot 
 of stuff to do. If you go straight for the story it'll probably take you around 15 hours, but if 
 you really go for all the enemy cards and hidden treasures and everything I'm sure you could easily 
 double that game time. The cards aren't just worthless items either like they are in some games. 
 The cards will allow you to double damage on an enemy for each card you have of that enemy. But, 
 you more than likely not going to end up with cards of bosses until after you have fought the boss. 
 Getting cards is easy to, you can buy some of them or you can buy/find Capture Cards which you 
 use like an item on enemies and that enemy will get turned into a card.
  
  This game also changes up the Mario series in general by allowing you to play as not only Mario, 
 but also Peach, Luigi and most suprisingly Bowser. Each have their own abilities such as Peaches 
 umbrella for floating and blocking attacks, Luigi's speed and high jump and Bowsers doubled attack 
 and fire breath. You'll have to work with all these guys to make it through levels.
  
  However, only Mario can pull the real tricks in this game, the 3d flip. Anyone who has seen anything 
 about this game has probably seen the flip from the 2d paper world to the 3d world. Probably the 
 most awesome feature of this game to. With the press of the A button the world will flip sideways 
 and you'll find all kinds of things. You may find hidden pipes, hidden passages, hidden items, 
 hidden enemies. Basically, your going to find yourself doing a lot of swapping hopeing to find 
 something hidden behind that pipe or another passage way to go through.
  
  The story isn't to shabby either. It can feel slow because its a lot of text reading at times, 
 but I never fell asleep reading it so thats a good sign. It's actually paced out pretty well to. 
 Now, my only complaint really is that the game still feels like a novelty more than a real hardcore 
 gamers game. The flipping is really cool, to the point where it seems to feel like the reason I 
 kept playing. But that's not exactly a good thing, at least I don't think so. Hopefully Nintendo 
 puts out a lot more quality games this year for the Wii, but I also hope they feel like less of 
 a novelty and more like a game. Either way this game is a ton of fun to play and extremely creative. 
 I hope that every Wii owner takes the time to give this one a shot. I don't think anyone will regret 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAkolyte
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 22, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario plays quite differently than any of its predecessors. Its similar to the original 
 platformer, but has many RPG elements sprinkled throughout, offering a fresh new style of gameplay. 
 This works magnificently, leaving nothing to be desired. The many new features in Super Paper Mario 
 help to revolutionize the experience. You'll be doing things like flipping the world, and using 
 the special abilities by way of creatures known as pixls to progress through the game. Nothing 
 feels out of place or awkward, which is a very good thing.
  
  The level design is absolutely marvelous. You'll be pleasantly surprised to find that no two levels 
 are at all similar, and that each stage offers a different brand of clever humor. Super Paper Mario 
 offers the same cardboard cutout style present in the preceding games. Though not nessesarely revolutionary, 
 the classical combination of cute and clever will keep you pleased and entertained. The sound quality 
 is crisp and unique, flavoring the game with pleasant ear-candy.
  
  I recommend Super Paper Mario to anyone who owns a wii. This title is a shining jewel in the wii's 
 catalogue of games, and should not be overlooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrhuntin
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 22, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  This game is best of all paper Mario's. The game is amazing ,the adventures that I played was great, I 
 mostly like about super paper mario is that when you have no way to get to the other side, you turn 
 around and BOOM there it go, there is a way to the other side. Because I saw the 4 hour marathon 
 of super paper mario on gamespot live, I was amazed at the game. And the bosses look hard to beat, anyone 
 can beat bosses on the games the people have. Overall 9.8 SUPERB. THE difficulty is ease to me, take 
 30 to me to learn this, I spent 10 down to 9 hour less on super paper mario, but BEST IN SERIES !!!!!!!!! 
 SUPER PAPER MARIO ROCKS !!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stonetowerghost
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 22, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  The Good: Nice visuals and fun gameplay (When fighting) ...
  
  The Bad: Lacking in the originality department; awful gameplay ideas in some areas; Dialogue that 
 you really won't care about; the character's abilities are limited and a huge hassal... Have you 
 ever had a favorite food? Pizza, salmon, or chicken parm? Well, imagine your pizza getting mustard 
 instead of tomato sauce; salmon fresh from oil spilled waters, and your chicken parm being shoved 
 up a pigs rear end before it's served to you. In the end, you get what you asked for, but it isn't 
 the same. SPM gives gamers a unique gameplay style, but completely destroys what they loved about 
 it in the first place. Here's my review. Story: Count Bleck, an evil well, count, has decided to 
 use the Dark Prognosticus to destroy all worlds. To do so he created the Chaos Heart by marrying 
 Bowser and Peach (Arguably against their will) under his blessing, which somehow revived a vortex 
 that will destroy each world. Mario must team up with his teammates and save the day. This story 
 is unlike any other in Mario games. There are some huge, unexpected twists to be found here, and 
 some scenerios (Such as a stereotypical 'nerdy' chameleon using a Dating Sim to talk to Princess 
 Peach) are amusing. This is the 1st Mario game to bring about motifs such as deep love, betrayal, 
 corruption, and death (I won't spoil that one...) . This game also has a goofy cast, especially 
 the villains. There's Count Bleck who talks in the 3rd person (Funnier than it sounds) . O' Chunks, 
 the Brute who talks like he should be wearing a kilt. Dimentio, the master of dimensions and treachery. 
 Mimi, the con. And Bleck's personal secretery who talks like Bill Lumburgh from Office Space. Also, 
 there's the unexpected rivalry between Mario and the evil Mr. L (You'll be in tears with laughter) . 
 The mainstream characters drive the story, which make it positive. Gameplay: Super Paper Mario 
 uses an ability to flip the world into 3D. This allows gamers to get across areas that would otherwise 
 be impassable. This is a great, immersive idea, but it's never fleshed out. Only Mario can use 
 this technique, and there's a time limit to how long he can be in 3D without taking damage. You 
 won't believe how annoying it is to switch characters just complete another puzzle. Not to mention 
 that some puzzles are just awful. Spinning in a hamster wheel for 10 minutes straight REALLY sucks; 
 as does spelling out a word 5 times to get a 25 word long passcode to hit 3 blocks in a certain 
 order. Oh, and did I mention walking through nothingness for what seems like ages just to hit a 
 cutscene? What about the endless fetch quests and collectathons that plague several areas and make 
 you want to strangle the developers? The dialogue is funny, but it winds up losing any and all 
 interest toward reading it because insignificant characters are the ones who usually talk, and 
 they talk so much that you get the idea in your head that reading just isn't worth it. I found 
 myself skipping through dialogue out of boredom, only to wind up missing a hint at a particular 
 puzzle. Welcome to Paper Mario: The HARDLY SUPER Game Filled With Boring Dialogue. Graphics: Beautiful 
 while it's in 2D. The world gets really bland once you switch over to 3D. Areas such as the Underwhere, 
 that oriental stadium, and the entirety of world four have some really nice graphical touches. 
 Sound: There's some good music here, but almost none of it is significantly classic. ALOT of the 
 soundtracks just flat out suck. Like any other Mario game, voice 'acting' is nonexistant. Value: 
 You'll be playing something else in a week. Tilt: What happend to Paper Mario? Nintendo's success 
 is apparent, but you wouldn't know it playing this. There are some nice moments, but this game 
 is the cast off shell of what it could have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthSamus
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Couldn't be better. The 3-D mechanic works seamlessly and perfectly, also adding much 
 more depth to an already deep gameplay. Not to mention all the Pixls different abilities. Each 
 enemy can be defeated by a different strategy and fighting each one is very entertaining. The RPG 
 system may feel tacked on at first, but when you fight in certain areas (Yes, there's a Pit of 
 100 Trials like in the Thousand Year Door) , you will be thankful for getting every last level up.
 
  
  Graphics: Simply beautiful. Every world is defined by the art and music (I'll go over that later) , 
 and each area feels unique. The environments are amazing and the characters and Pixls are all very 
 cool looking.
  
  Sound: Amazing. Just amazing. You will be listening to this over and over and over. You probably 
 will find yourself going back to different chapters just to hear the music. Here's a link to the 
 soundtrack if you want to listen:
  
  http://www. esnips. com/web/SuperPaperMario
  
  Value: This is where the game stands out. You will want to play this over and over and over to 
 fight all the great bosses again. There's at least 40 hours of gameplay to acquire everything, 
 and that's if you're real fast and skip the dialogue (Don't!) .
  
  Tilt: Many say it has too much dialogue. If you are in for a straight up platformer, then yes. 
 If you want a game with a lot of depth and storyline, not to mention replay value, GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azsoonerfan1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 21, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  this is an awesome jawdropping game. it looks and feels great. the controles are easy to use ! 
 this game is (if you do all the side quests) about a 20-45 hour game. if your a fan of either the 
 paper mario series or just a big fan of mario games this for you. paper maio series cause it has 
 all the RPG elements. if your just a huge mario fan this game is for you because the platformer 
 style of play! overall this is a great game!!! if you own a wii and are bored of beating twilight 
 princess (like i was) over and over again i reccomend this game for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoppaJabun
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 21, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Finally, the third addition for the Paper Mario series is here! So what was I expecting before 
 I put the game in? Well, the battle system is no longer RPG-take-turn-attacking-style. Instead, 
 it is much like the classic Super Mario games, where you jump on enemies. I was aware of this already. 
 I knew I was going to miss the old ones, but I really thought I was going to love this game.
  
  So I put the game in my Wii, and start it up. I make my save file and watch the opening scene. 
 It was unbelievably uninteresting, as opposing to the two first Paper Mario's, where every bit 
 of the game had you pumped.
  
  GAME PLAY
  
  Negatives
  
  The first thing that disappointed me, was you were playing in absolute 2-D. Flat on side scrolling. 
 The first two installments weren't necessarily this 2-D. You still saw everything from perspective. 
 So yeah, what I wasn't aware of was that you actually had to switch to 3-D using Mario's new power. 
 Doing this would help you find hidden things like buttons and item blocks. When you are in 3-D 
 mode, you only have about thirty seconds before you run out of power and start losing life, so 
 you have to switch to 2-D and wait for your gauge to fill back up! This absolutely made no sense 
 at all, considering Mario never had to deal with this bologna in the other two Paper Mario's.
 
  So here is a summary of what makes the game play so disappointing...
  * No RPG battles
  * No Badges
  * No Action Commands
  * 2-D-- 3-D limits
  * Little interesting dialogue
  * 
 Repetitive, looping plot
  
  Positives
  
  I still had fun with the game. Instead of partners, you got these fairy type things called Pixls 
 , each one granting you a special power. One of the Pixls you discover late in the game is the 
 one that finally gives you your hammer. Some other powers include shrinking, ground pounds, turning 
 sideways to become invisible, and getting hints. I thought it was really cool. The game also proved 
 to be the funniest of the series, which is a big plus. Another thing that kept me playing was that 
 you got to play as different characters. Luigi, Peach, and Bowser all join your party, and each 
 have a different skill. One thing I might add that will make you feel a lot better is that there 
 is still leveling up. Once you get a certain amount of points, you level up either HP or Attack.
 
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics didn't prove impressive, but who needs them? Do graphics really effect game play? 
 In my opinion, no. I will add, however, that the graphics did look a lot fresher than the first 
 two games.
  
  SOUND
  The music was great and all, and matched whatever was going on, but it was all music and no ambiance.
 
  
  VALUE
  Worth the money for a Paper Mario fan. If you've never played a Paper Mario game, try playing them 
 in order before jumping to this one, though.
  
  Total Score: 8.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -shmelo-
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 21, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  The Paper Mario series is a long running series that has been around for quite a few years now. 
 Its always brought forth innovative takes on the RPG genre and a nice sense of humour. This latest 
 addition to the series however takes many steps away from the RPG genre, in fact it isn't an RPG 
 at all. Super Paper Mario still holds many of the previoius features but has totally removed the 
 turn-based battle system, and now you simply stomp on enemies, much like every other Mario game. 
 Previous features such as the item shop and the hotel are still present but this game has a more 
 focus on the adventure and the levels, there aren't as many villages or shops or hotels. In fact 
 the hotel (come to think of it, in the games its refered to as an inn) isn't even important in 
 Super Paper Mario, I found I went 3 chapters without using the inn/hotel. Although some favoured 
 features of the originals aren't prominent or are totally gone, this game still pertains the same 
 atmosphere.
  
  Gameplay:
  This game is pretty much a total platformer with mild item usage and stat-building. The game progresses 
 in chapters (8 in total) and there are levels and stages to each chapter. You run through collecting 
 coins, beating baddies, getting points for beating baddies, leveling up, solving puzzles and beating 
 bosses. For the lack of real fighting techniques the boss battles are very well done and some are 
 pretty epic. Of course it seems like I would have never mentioned it by now, but the main new feature 
 of course is the use of 3-D, and turning between 3-D and 2-D, they both have a big part to play 
 in boss battles (not all mind you) and solving puzzles (alot of puzzles require 3-D) . This feature 
 is executed perfectly! The levels and the puzzles and the badguys and the length of each level 
 are just perfect!
  
  Graphics:
  The game has a flat cartoon feel but utilises 3-D models of the flat characters. Although the characters 
 designs are rather simple, and some are just too simple, the level design and special effects and 
 background art not only accent the characters but have immense detail and structure creating an 
 excellent enviroment.
  
  Sound:
  The music is really well done in this version, although the whole bits and pieces of noise the 
 characters make when talking (no voice acting, duh) gets annoying at points, Mario's signature 
 wahoo and Mario and what not, are really funny and accent towards the game.
  
  Controls:
  Controls on the wii are wonderful, I like how its not all motion controlled and uses buttons and 
 rather old school techniques, it still uses the wiimote properly, not too much, and not too little. 
 Controls are tight and very responsive, except when searching with the Pixl by pointing the wiimote, 
 sometimes thats not so responsive.
  
  Conclusion:
  If you own a Wii or are going to own a Wii, this is an absolute must have game for the Wii. Above 
 Zelda TP, this game is actually better, don't bother renting it first, buy it and love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G_W_13
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 10, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  I would like to say that this game rocks. it is fun throughout the whole game and never gets boring. 
 3d mode works pretty well and 2d mode is beautiful. Also its cool how u can be 4 different playable 
 characters who all do different unique things. the game is exeptionally hard with some great puzzles 
 and boss fights. Also the game is over 20 hours of just great fun gameplay that will make you never 
 want to stop. I suggest to anyone who is looking for a great adventure game to try this game and 
 i promise you you'll love it. I give this game a 9.8 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vashkey
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 29, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  While Super Paper Mario isn't exactly the full blown platform adventure people are going to looking 
 for in Super Mario galaxy, this game is still one of Mario's best outings. It has enough here that 
 some fans (such as myself) could go as far as saying it's their favorite Mario game. It's takes 
 in alot of good old Mario gameplay and concepts and mixes them in with some new ones. The result 
 here is what is arguably the best Wii game right now.
  
  Gameplay: Super Paper Mario controls alot like our old friend, Super Mario Brothers. Here, you 
 hold the Wii controller sideways, seeting things up alot like the classic NES controller. You got 
 your D pad over to the left, used for controlling where Mario runs around. And the 2 button is 
 used to jump. The game introduces this little sprite characters called pxls. Their sort of comparable 
 to summons of rpg games. You use them to let you do some spiffy abilities. For instance, boomer, 
 a bomb shaped pxl can be set down by pressing the 1 button and he'll sit for a few second then 
 blow up. Or you can activate the blast early by pressing the 1 button a second time. All of the 
 pxls that you'll find on your adventure will have a power you can use by pressing the 1 button. 
 There is one exception to this and thats the pxl Tippi. Tippi is a butter fly shaped pxl. To activate 
 her ability, hold your Wii remote like you normaly would and point it at the screem This wil activate 
 a sort of scanner mode, letting you read about objects and character around you. It also lets you 
 reaveal hiden objects to. If you pess the 1 and 2 button at the same time you can bring up a basic 
 menu of stuff like items, pxls and stuff about your party. And if you press the + button, you'll 
 bring up a menu thats a tad bit more detailed. Super Paper Mario if you could not tell so far, 
 isn't a turn based RPG. It's more of a platforming action RPG. You beat enemies by more traditional 
 Mario means (like jumping on their heads) and from beating them you'll gain experience like you 
 would an RPG. Once your experience hits a certain point you'll level up, which will boost your 
 stats, either your stregnth or your health. The game also adds in a very unique and interesting 
 twist in there. You can flip in between 2d and 3d, by pressing the A button. It's pretty amazing, 
 and the game has you use this quite often. This wasn't just a half baked concept. And it really 
 has you think. You can't stay in 3d too long though, or it'll deplete your health, so you gotta 
 use it wisely. Now, don't go thinking this game went and just ignored the Wii's motion capabilities. 
 As mentioned earlier, Tippi uses the pointing abilitiy. Some special items you use will also have 
 your shake the Wii remote or point it at the screen in a certain way to power it up. Same for curing 
 status effects. The game does a good job of not over doing or under using the motion capabilities.
 
  
  Graphics: This game is not Gears of War. Your jaw isn't going to hit the floor in amazement on 
 how realistic the game looks. But it is quite stylish. With Mario and his buddies looking like 
 very colorful. The citizens of the other world Mario will explore thogh aren't quite as papery 
 looking. Some have an abstract computery look to them. It's pretty diverse. This is just a really 
 artisitic game. And alot of the time, what you see looks just as good and somtimes adds extra depth 
 to waht you see when you look at it in 3d.... and some things don't, unfortunatly. But still, this 
 is one nice looking game here.
  
  Sound: Music wise, the game is decent. This isn't the most memorable sound track ever, but theres 
 some really good ones in here. And the ones that aren't as memorable aren't really a bother, so 
 no real problem there. The sound effects have that goofy cartoony thing goin on. It's appropiate 
 for this type of game, but some times some sounds kinda misplaced. But it's decent. Also, for a 
 game with alot of dialouge, it might have been nice to have some voice acting. If Nintendo's target 
 audiance here was children (and you'd think it be... It is Mario after all) , then they might have 
 missed it with it's tons upon tons of text cut scenes. The cialouge was funny and well done and 
 this game had a really good story, and not just a completly stupid kiddy story here. It had some 
 real depth and some character development. I'd go as far as to say the narative here was better 
 than most Final Fantasys. And in some ways, this game probably benefited from no voice acting. 
 It could have really ruined things.
  
  Value: The game hits around twenty hours with out the side quest, and thats pretty good for a platformer. 
 You also have some side quests to indulge in and some optional Pxls to pick up. And theres even 
 a little arcade to goof around in. This game will last you a while.
  
  I've got to say, Super paper Mario took me by complete surprise. It's just a great package all 
 together. It's defiantly my favortie game from Nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gruber1990
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 20, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  very cool game. i like the neat little flip into 3-D thing. its so cool. you can always find something 
 new. all you have to do is flip dimensions and theres something completely new. i loved seeing 
 the old classic version in 3D. seeing the new hiding spots. i also loved all the different Pixls. 
 everyone having a different ability. all the story line was good. it was like a mystery. trying 
 to put the pieces to the puzzle. it was one of the best games for the Wii&gt; other than Zelda&lt; 
 its a good game and i recommend buying it or at least rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobnadel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 20, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  This easy to learn, action packed game is definitely the best Mario game ever made. In the game, 
 you start out as Mario and as you progress, Peach, Bowser, and Luigi join you in your quest for 
 the 8 pure hearts to stop the evil Count Bleck from destroying the worlds. The really fun part 
 about this game is that, as Mario you can flip from 2D to 3D with the press of the A button. The 
 only bad part about this game is the long cut scene after you start a new file. As I said before, 
 definitely the best Mario game ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nuck81
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 20, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario has been one of the most hyped games in the Wii's short history. Ranking up there 
 with Zelda, Red Steel, SSBB, and Mario Galaxy. While the hype can be justified, as the Wii has 
 become a haven of half-ass cash-in bargain games, I still expect a little more out of my systems 
 elite games.
  
  SPM starts off great. While the text reading can be boring it is well written and fairly engaging. 
 the only drawback is in this day and age where full voice acting is basically standard, a text 
 based game just doesn't cut it. The beginning level designs are genius. The first few levels are 
 throwbacks to previous Mario platformers and you will be delighted to see some of the most cherished 
 and beloved levels in video game history be presented in an all new way. The puzzles are engaging 
 , intuitive, and extremely clever. The character interaction is good, and game combat is familiar 
 and effective. You miss the sprint button but you make it up much later in the game with a Pixl. 
 The biggest drawback is this cleverness just doesn't last.
  
  I don't know if the developers got lazy, they got tired, or they were rushed, but the later levels 
 just plain suck. They are nothing but one inane and boring fetch quest one right after the other. 
 They feel so drawn out in fact that it almost feels that their only purpose is to draw out what 
 would have been a relatively short game. There are no longer clever in-jokes, or hidden goodies 
 found in the 3-d mode. In fact its rarely worth it to constantly switch back and forth in later 
 levels as there is no pay-off except for the situations where it is painfully obvious what you 
 have to do. It is majorly disappointing to be sure.
  
  The writing while funny, is not as good as PM: TYD. The story is not as good either, being not particularly 
 original, or creative. The characters themselves are memorable, especially the supporting characters. 
 One of the biggest features in the game is the ability to play as Bowser, Peach, and Luigi. The 
 catch is, it's rarely in your best interest to do so, except in specific situations. Bowser is 
 snail slow, Peach is worthless except for her ability to float. Luigi is superior to Mario in every 
 way, but you can't play as him for long because you invariably have to switch to Mario in order 
 to get past some obstacle in 3-D. Its just a big let down.
  
  There are some good things about the game. A lot in fact. The control is great, the Pixl's are 
 effective, the graphics are clean and aesthetically appealing if not groundbreaking, and the first 
 six or seven hours of the game is one of the most engaging and pleasant experiences I've had with 
 a video game. Its just the pacing, and before mentioned flaws really, really drag the game down 
 and take away from the over-all experience.
  
  In my opinion, this game is a rental only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holywars989
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 20, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game, I was a little reluctant, and a little worried. This is because 
 the last game in the Paper Mario series (the Thousand Year Door) really disappointed me. Also, 
 I was kind of disappointed that this game was not to be released for the GCN, but now that I've 
 played it I understand why. The side-scrolling 2D adventure works really well with the Wii Remote, 
 as well as the brief 3D parts. It's really an excellent game (one that allows you to play as Peach 
 and Bowser!) , and probably the best game yet to be released for the Wii. It really isn't too hard, 
 thanks to the countless Pixls the player earns throughout the game. The problem I had with this 
 game is the omission of the RPG-style battles. I understand that they did this because of the back 
 to basics 2D environments, but PM64 had 2D sequences as well. All in all, this is a very enjoyable 
 game, and I recommend this to anyone who likes Mario and also likes to be entertained. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuckSol
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 19, 2007 11:03 pm PT
Review:  While plenty of games have been released on the Wii since it's launch, there was a noticeable lack 
 of Mario until the release of Super Paper Mario. While not exactly the Mario game fans come to 
 expect from Nintendo (as in a system pushing and system selling game) , it is a good game that comes 
 close to greatness.
  
  The Paper Mario spin-off series has, in the past, been a predominantly RPG style game. Super Paper 
 Mario manages to push away from these RPG standards even more and add a lot of platforming standards. 
 While you still get RPG standards like towns with NPC's to talk to, money to buy items, side quests, 
 and of course an evil shadow-like figure threatening to destroy all life as we know it; you also 
 get enemies to stomp on in real time (no separate battle screen with menus to choose your attack) 
 and platforms to try and reach with precise jumping.
  
  With bad controls, these platforming sections could have killed the game. Thankfully, the controls 
 are spot on. The wii-mote is held horizontally (like an NES control) with the d-pad moving him 
 and the 3 action buttons for jumping and special moves. The only waggle to be found in the game 
 is when using special items or when you need to point at the screen to discover hidden objects.
 
  
  While thanks should be given to the developer for not trying to make the control system really 
 gimmicky, it's limited use does show that this was a Gamecube game initially. Graphically, this 
 can be viewed as the game never really tries to do anything beyond what the the Gamecube Paper 
 Mario accomplished.
  
  Graphics aren't just about the textures, it's about art direction and that is one of two areas 
 where this game shines. Like previous Paper Mario games, this game has every character as a flat 
 2 dimensional object. Thanks to the main mechanic in this game, the 2-d aspect can truly be seen 
 whenever Mario flips into the 3rd dimension. While this makes the gorgeous backgrounds seem rather 
 mundane, it really adds to the paper concept the game pushes. The other area where the game shines 
 is with it's writing. it's really simple to tell the writers of this game had a lot of fun with 
 the script as there are many excellent quotes to come out fo this game. Now if only they could 
 have made the story just as memorable as the jokes. The game really seems to peak with the 3rd 
 level and then start to go downwards until the end of the game.
  
  It's this downward trend that keep Paper Mario from being a great game. The problems lie with a 
 mechanic (the switch from 2d to 3d) which gets overused to the point it's borderline gimmicky, 
 fetch quests that take place between each level which are monotonous at best, a very cumbersome 
 ways to advance in the level (like running around in a hamster wheel for 10 minutes... and no I'm 
 not exaggerating) , and a short main quest (10-15 hours to beat the game) .
  
  Hopefully another Super paper Mario game will be made using the ideas presented in this one as 
 there is a lot of potential here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videogamr49
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 19, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  If you are familiar with the Paper Mario series, you might be familiar with the overall goal of 
 the game. In this adventure, you adventure to collect the 8 Pure Hearts, of which can overpower 
 the power of the Chaos Heart. The story is that the evil Count Bleck has forced Bowser and Peach 
 (mainly Peach) into wedlock that summons the power of the Chaos Heart. Count Bleck's plot is to 
 rid all the worlds and begin new worlds of good (as they saw it) . Mario, as well as Bowser, Peach, 
 and Luigi, must team together to adventure into new worlds.
  
  The graphics of the game are excellent in 2D mode, but can get plain and simple in 3D mode. The 
 2D graphics far surpass any 2D game on any console. 3D is very simplistic and the camera angles 
 during this period may get annoying. Nevertheless, the 3D mode does not interfere with any crucial 
 parts of the game just makes it weird when you are trying to move from right to left (in terms 
 of the 2D plane) .
  
  The sound is very nice and makes a nice imprint into the mind. Though, some sounds are not as grand, 
 they still are a nice touch to the pace of the game.
  
  Controls are nice and simple. Use the D-Pad to move, 1 to use a Pixl, 2 to jump, and A to flip 
 between 2D and 3D (with Mario) . Some other commands are such: 1 and 2 at the same time opens a 
 quick menu where you can change characters, use items, and switch pixls; pressing - opens up the 
 Controls Help so that you can remember how to do certain things on the control; also, pressing 
 + pauses the game (obviously) . Motion is also a part of the game yet in an non-intrusive way. You 
 use motion to achieve Action Commands for certain items and to gain more points attacking an enemy 
 when the controller is shook at the right time. Certain mini-games (in the arcade) use the motion 
 in the controller as well.
  
  Multiple characters and pixls allows puzzle solving to be unique and challenging. Items also pose 
 to be very useful. Some heal health while some speed up or slow time (for double or triple the 
 points, respectively) . One other kind is the Mega Star which turns your character into a Giant 
 8-Bit crushing machine. I mean seriously, what more do you want than a Giant 8-bit Peach lol. It's 
 probably the coolest item in the game. You also can get little 8-bit characters in the game that 
 help protect you from damage.
  
  Overall the game is awesome and should not be passed up by anyone who like good games and action-adventure 
 games. I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronfilmltd
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is the third installment of the long-running Paper Mario series, starting with 
 the original for the N64, The Thousand-Year Door for the Gamecube, and now this game.
  
  No, there isn't voice acting, but going into this game you'll realize that the characters are better 
 left that way. In fact, it's the writing itself that seperates the game from it's predecessors. 
 The humorous writing style reflects that of the Mario and Luigi series (DS/GBA) . The characters 
 are given plenty of dialogue, all used to develop the plot.
  
  This game is exactly what the previews say: not only is it an RPG, but it is also a 2D sidescrolling 
 platformer, and a very entertaining one, at that. Somewhere along the course of the game, you recieve 
 a special interdimensional power that allows you to view the open world from a 3-dimensional standpoint. 
 This allows you to solve new puzzles presented to you as levels progress, and defeat enemies you'd 
 not normally see from your average 2D perspective. A very minor problem is the camera during flipping 
 to 3D. Occasionally, objects will block your view. This doesn't happen often at all, but when it 
 does, it gets a little frustrating.
  
  The puzzles themselves increase in difficulty from a simple flip to 3D solution in Chapter One 
 to actually having to hunt for information in a fortress in the further seven chapters. This suits 
 the game nicely, because the more abilities you get, the more possibilities to try to solve it.
 
  
  As for the game length, you won't be getting a 50-hour adventure as in the Legend of Zelda, but 
 a solid 20 hours to complete the story. This may disappoint at first, but there is so much to do 
 after the game's completion that you may be kept playing for an additional 10-15 hours. The story 
 really makes you want to keep playing, which is a huge plus.
  
  The sound this game has disappoints, though. The music is less catchy, mostly synthesized rehashes 
 of the original Mario games, with some new tracks to boot. None of these tracks really stick in 
 your head as in previous Paper Mario games do. Besides this however, there are really not too many 
 sounds that are bad or repetitive.
  
  I'm not saying it IS the best Wii game on the market, but it is certainly the most addicting. I 
 strongly recommend this game to all Wii owners. If you don't want it because it's too kiddish, 
 then I'm sure others will agree that you're missing out on one of the strongest titles on the Wii 
 thus far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mario_bros_
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 19, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  A really good paper mario, very good graphics and very good game play. The game had only one problem, 
 that proble is that the game is WAY TOO EASY!!! By the second day of owning the game i was done 
 with chapter 7. It was very fun. But deffinitly too easy!!! I loved the fact that i was able to 
 flip from 2d into 3d during the game, the game had very good eliments... i thought the underwhere 
 was hillaryious and i liked being able to switch characters inside the levels. I think that nintendo 
 should have made the game a bit harder, then it would have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WateredTruth
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 19, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  From the time i played the first paper mario for the N64 i was hooked. it was mario... and i was 
 a RPG. i beat it and years later i play the sequal; the thousand year door and i was amazed how 
 they could make a story so cooky and diffrent. i beat it and than when i get super paper mario. 
 i feel one of 2 things:
  1. the game is a reimagined remake of the first SMB.
  2. its a RPG but when i see the screens of the 3D turns i get confused!
  so i finally play it 
 and i got to say... ITS FREAKING GOOD!!!!
  Super paper mario starts as a mario game usally should begin with. Chaos in the castle so whos 
 to blame? BOWSER! so mario and luigi go and are ready to kick some koopa ass when they find out; 
 bowzer ain't behind it! a unknown being named Count Bleck is! and before you can stop him; he knocks 
 you out and takes over bowser's castle and takes luigi, bowser and his minions to another demention! 
 and its up to you and a pixl named tippi to stop bleck from destroying all dementions! Gameplay 
 is a RPG and platfromer hybrid and with marios power of flipping the world from 2D to 3D which 
 at parts can be very trippy. as you progress you obtain pixls who help you on your journey and 
 some eventually you get the whole chosen 4 thing going with mario peach luigi even bowser! Graphics 
 are pretty good. they might not be full 3D but their still good. Music is good but it still needs 
 voice acting. but as far as everything... ITS JUST PLAIN FUN. from dealing with a steriotyped geek 
 to helping cave me with floro Syapians
  this game is fun from start to finish and as good as its previous installments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mesayni
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is a game I've been eagerly waiting for ever since it was announced it seems 
 like a year and a half ago. I loved the Paper Mario for Gamecube, and it seemed like this new one 
 would be great too. This ended up being true, but a lot happened in between. The developers announced 
 that all fighting would be real-time platforming based instead of turn-based, the chapters would 
 be the traditional 1-1, 1-2, 1-3 format and I'd now have the ability to turn the world into 3-d. 
 I love platformers, but I wasn't sure I wanted any platformer in my Paper Mario. Turns out, the 
 2-d aspect of the game actually didn't change the way the game felt all that much. Some of the 
 boss fights were hampered by their real-time natures. I remember some of the boss fights from Thousand 
 Year Door being awesome and hilarious because of the turn-based fights and the way dialogue would 
 be delivered in between turns. Super Paper Mario tries to replicate this sometimes but it doesn't 
 really work. The good news is, for the most part the platforming elements make the game really 
 fun. I miss my party from Thousand Year Door and all their unique back stories and personalities 
 (the Pixls just aren't quite as interesting except maybe Tippi) , but a couple of the characters 
 you meet in Super Paper Mario top anything Thousand Year Door offered. On the other hand, the overall 
 quality of the story seemed to be a little below that of the Gamecube version. Granted, this might 
 be nostalgia, but it hurt me sometimes that there was no mystery in the train or Glitz Pit wrestling 
 matches. Occasionally, I'd think there was this type of equivalent coming up, but it never panned 
 out. And the story, as well documented, bogs down at the end where you have to collect fruits and 
 traverse through annoying black and white mazes. Worth it to witness the next cutscene, but not 
 really that great in itself. Overall, this is a great game and you have to pick it up but I'm not 
 sure yet whether it can hold up to my love for Thousand Year Door. Guess I'll just have to play 
 it more, which I'm sure I'll be able to handle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruttness
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 19, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  AI have been waiting for this game for a long time. After playing Paper Mario for N64, which I 
 consider to be one of my favourite games of all time, I was kind of let down by Thousand-Year Door. 
 I mean it was a good game but it didn't have the same fun feel as in the original. Super Paper 
 Mario brings that back. This game is really different than the first two though. It's not 3-D... 
 unless you switch into 3-D mode. This adds great fun effect to the game. The graphics are great. 
 Everything is smooth and looks nice. The camera gets in a weird position when in 3-D mode sometimes. 
 The story is odd but is well thought out and is pretty good. The gameplay is great. Choosing between 
 Mario, Peach, Bowser and Luigi is very fun. Each bring their own special skills to the game so 
 you can have a different experience with them all. The Pixls are awesome. They are like the partners 
 in the first two games. You get several of these Pixls and some of them are really cool. Others 
 are just necessary. The soundtracks aren't anything special. It's just a background music. Overall 
 the game is great and I plan on playing it again. A Must-Have for the Wii! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darnydb
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 19, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  SPM is a pretty fun game, but it's not a great RPG like Final Fantasy, and it's not really as much 
 fun to play as a classic mario game. As I play it though, I like it more and more, and I'm discovering 
 lots of hidden 'stuff to do' in the game that makes it better. I went in expecting more of an action 
 game, so I was a little put off in the beginning when I had to read volumes and volumes of text 
 just to get to stomping the first goomba of the game. The 3D Flip aspect of the game makes things 
 really interesting, and the actual game levels (the parts of the game that don't involve walking 
 through a town, etc) are pretty good, but they're not pure action. There's more stuff to figure 
 out and less killing koopas, performing skill jumps, etc.
  
  Summary - Rent (or try) before you buy! I don't regret getting it, but I'm still looking for that 
 killer action game for the Wii that I can just pick up at any time and enjoy mindless button mashing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rond5566
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 19, 2007 2:21 am PT
Review:  It's pretty funny now that I think back about my SNES through my early PS2 days. My gaming career 
 can be summed up in three letters... RPG. I craved RPG's. Dreamt about RPG's. I even played them 
 every now and again. And why not? RPG's were amazing... the 16 bit Final Fantasy games, Chrono Trigger, 
 Lufia, the countless great titles to come to the PSX in the heyday following the great Final Fantasy 
 VII.
  
  But now, I avoid most RPG's like the plague. Why? Maybe I have lost the innocent mindset I had 
 as a child which allowed me to enjoy anything... but that can't be it since I play bad video games 
 and anjoy them all the time. Maybe I just plain old fashioned don't have the time or have lost 
 my attention span... again, can't be true because I can sit through all these old RPG's I loved 
 as a kid. Maybe it's just that RPG's are just all around BAD now adays... it's a pretty valid arguement, 
 and I can sight many things to support it like the total collapse of the giant Squaresoft into 
 what is now the cesspool called SquareEnix, but no... every once in a while a new company emerges 
 and can crank out a decent JRPG here and there like Nippon Ichi, Level 5, or Sting.
  
  I think the most one correct answer is that everywhere you look... video games are esentially RPG's. 
 You can't play a Madden game without leveling up your stats. You can rip monsters apart in God 
 of War without gaining little orbs to boost your experience to learn new skills. And now... the 
 worst has happened as you can't just sit back and enjoy a good old fashioned Mario game without 
 Mario constantly dealing DAMAGE or gaining EXPERIENCE points. The effect of the RPG boom from the 
 PSX days have been so tremendous that we see it invading every other genre to the point where some 
 people just don't want it in anything. Some people crave just a simple game in a say when complex 
 build'-'em-ups like Oblivion and BioShock are the standards by how we judge good games.
  
  A little history on the Mario RPG idea. It started off amazingly when Squaresoft developed the 
 first Mario RPG on the SNES, back when JRPG's still were innocent from the FF7 effect. The game 
 was an absolute perfect translation from a platforming series into an RPG yet still retaining many 
 of the platforming elements Mario is known for. Since then, the standard has not been quite matched. 
 A second RPG was released for the N64 using peculiar yet charming graphics. I have never played 
 this game, so I can't comment on it, but having played the Gamecube sequel I can safely say I was 
 not impressed. The shallow RPG system backed by a cramped world and a not-so-fun battle system 
 really held the game back.
  
  Two other RPG's were released for the handheld, and they held up fairly well, but still lacked 
 to original charm of Super Mario RPG.
  
  Thus, we come to the fifth Mario RPG ... which can be used lightly as this game is actually a platformer 
 with some light RPG elements. The RPG elements in this game... are rather light. Mario has two stats... attack 
 and health. Attack increases the damage dealt when Mario lands on a creature and health is pretty 
 self explanatory. That's it... nothing else. What to make of it? I'm slightly pleased by this actually. 
 By focusing less on building Mario up like an RPG character, it allows the game to focus more on 
 the platforming, right?
  
  Wrong. The platforming really comes up weak in this game, moreso than the RPG elements. As you 
 take Mario through these pretty poorly laid out 2D worlds, you can't help but think that zero effort 
 was really placed into the level design. There are a few blocks... a few gaps, but come on! The 
 levels can be beaten with only jumps. Nothing complicated in the levels ever turn up.
  
  Not to mention Mario himself is a little boring. Mario can only run at one speed in this game... running 
 faster is out of the question, which only adds to the tediousness of running through these action 
 levels. Mario also has none of his traditional power ups such as flowers or leaves/capes (which 
 would be useless since he can't run) Instead, Mario can employ the help of Pixi's... little hand 
 drawn creatures which give Mario abilities such as dropping bombs (this is a Mario game, right?) 
 or picking up enemies, stomping the ground, hovering, growing spikes (this IS a Mario game, isn't 
 it?) and even turning invisible. While these diverse moves sound pretty handy, very rarely do they 
 ever come in true handy unless they are used to solve a puzzle. This is also hindered by the fact 
 that there is no real-time Pixi change either. Everytime you wish to use a new move, you must go 
 into the menu and select a new one simply isn't enough buttons to have a real time change... yet 
 the B button is pretty useless in the game. There's no real-time character change either, so you 
 must open the menu whenever you wish to change to Peach or Bowser... who are pretty useless unless 
 you have a large gao you need to cross.
  
  So with crummy platforming, tedious levels, and extremely light RPG elements, is Super Paper Mario 
 even worth playing? Strangely, yes it is. To the games credit, it's gimmick of changing 2D levels 
 into 3D really delivers and nearly entirely fills the cracks where the two main aspects of the 
 game come up short. Intelligent Systems made crummy levels in 2D, so that they would translated 
 easier into 3D. The levels in Super Mario Bros 3 or Super Mario World, for as amazing and outstanding 
 as they are, would never translate properly into 3D for they are simply too complicated and would 
 be too much of a chore to work your way through. By keeping the 2D levels simple, the 3D parts 
 of the game are able to succeed on a certain degree. The game is not neccessarily made any better 
 by this ability, but it's always fun to change the camera around frequently to see what goodies 
 you can uncover. The game is also very puzzle heavy. Some puzzles are fun and take full advantage 
 of the 2D to 3D convertion, other are just terrible such as doing nothing but running forward on 
 a hamster wheel for ten minutes I kid you not!
  
  The boss fights range for amazing to terrible. Level 1... the boss fight is amazing. The rest... are 
 terrible.
  
  Level 4, the space level... easily one of the worlds levels ever created in a video game. Remember 
 those original Mario levels where you had to pick the correct path to move forward and get to Bowser? 
 Yeah... imagine that except longer and Mario moving much slower... aka... hell.
  
  The Wii's motion sensing is thankfully not overused in this game. Every now and again, you must 
 point the remote at the screen to uncover some secret, but for the most part, you may hold it just 
 like an NES controller. Motion sensing also comes in the form of some pretty basic minigames which 
 appear whenever you wish to use an offensive item. However, these items are practically useless, 
 and you won't be using them that much. It's best to just fill up on recovery items and make the 
 game that much easier since it's almost impossible to die.
  
  The game does have another drawback in it's hub town Flipside. Upon beating every level, you will 
 find yourself dreading obtaining a Pure Heart as that indicates you must now traverse through this 
 horrible maze of a town and search for some large podium which opens up the next world. These podiums 
 are sometimes hidden in the darkest most backward part of this town, and searching for is downright 
 repetitive and boring when all you want to do is get on with the game. The town is also home to 
 many people who you are forced to interact with at times as well if you need to search for an item 
 to move forward.
  
  Coins are useless. You will very rarely find yourself buying any items for the world. Instead, 
 you can simply blow all your coins on the one RPG element which does impress. The game contains 
 a collectible card game very similar to the figurine collecting in The Minish Cap. Only this game 
 has a payoff. For every card you collect of a certain enemy, you do twice as much damage to that 
 enemy. So basically... for ten coins, you do twice as much damage to any single type of enemy in 
 the game. Not a bad deal. And it doesn't just stop at one either. If you get another card of the 
 same enemy... hell... the game increases the damage you do exponentially. It's the only reasonable 
 way to spend your coins.
  
  Luckily, the games graphics and music are the real strengths of the game. The cute 2D Sprites of 
 Mario, Peach, and Bowser work very well in this world created to look like a picture book (Peach 
 is so hot) The music is enjoyable as well, and while it's not as impressive as some Mario scores, 
 it works and creates a fun enough mood.
  
  A lot of people complain about the story and the walls of text, but I actually enjoy the dialogue. 
 The game is littered with references to old Mario games, old Nintendo games of any series, and 
 pop-geek culture. Easily the best occurs in level 3 when you must play a Japanese dating sim as 
 Peach against a horny nerdy chameleon. The villains aren't as cool as other Mario RPG villains 
 like Booster, the Axem Rangers, FAWFUL, or even Bowser (many villains are not as cool as Bowser, 
 so don't hold it against him) , but Beck has a certain amount of delightful, evil charm to him. 
 Without a doubt, his best sidekick is Mimi, a little green chick with a lusting for Rupees.
  
  I also don't know if I like Luigi speaking either, but he does in this game. I much prefer 
 both Mario Bros to be silent. The chemistry between them works much better that way.
  
  All in all... Super Paper Mario is worth playing... once. Pick it up for the weekend, play through 
 it, and put it back forever. It's definitely not a Mario game you will come back to constantly 
 like the early platformers or Super Mario RPG.
  
  Sadly, there's not enough RPG to back up the games above average play length, nor is there enough 
 platforming to back up eight levels, but in the end, the game is held together by its gimmick and 
 charm. Intelligent Systems is definitely more capable than this. Fire Emblem is one of the last 
 JRPG series worth playing anymore. Maybe they should stick to that in the future.
  
  For now... this game won't hold you over for Super Mario Galaxy, but it might until the next good 
 Wii game comes out. But don't hold your breath... Super Mario Galaxy might be that game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ian_ralph12345
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 18, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  One of the most fun games I've played! It's really fun, because you can turn into 3D mode, and 
 everything else is paper thin. So half of the game is 3D. Another great thing about the game is 
 that it's the first game that Bowser isn't the bad guy, and he's actually on your side. You can 
 switch your character to Mario, Peach and Bowser (maybe more, I haven't got that far though) . You 
 also have pixls to help you along you way. There's over 10 of them. They can make you paper thin, 
 explode thing, shoot things, etc.
  
  The game is kind of an RPG. You have hit points, and so do your enemies. Mushroom's don't make 
 you big, they give you hit points.
  
  There are various extra fun things about the game, like slow motion, fast motion, supersize mode 
 etc. There are also these Mini-Mario things, that follow you and jump when you jump. They're the 
 Mario's from Super Mario Bros. 1 . It's really cool.
  
  The graphics aren't that good, but i like them. The 2D mode is like the other Paper Mario games. 
 Your made out of paper, and I like it. In 3D mode, you're still paper, but everything else is 3D.
 
  
  The controls are easy to learn. You hold the Wii remote sideways, like a classic controller. You 
 don't have to stand or anything. There are some parts where you have to shake it back and forth. 
 Another great thing about the controls is you point it at the screen to see secret doorways and 
 platforms. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: materialweapon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 18, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  I played both previous games and loved them both. I'm not going to lie, but when I heard of this 
 game and the fact that it was going to be a side scroller, I wasn't happy. I wanted another Paper 
 Mario game that was an rpg. But after looking into this game in around February, I got more and 
 more interested day by day. Finally in the middle of march, I had my mind set on it and decided 
 to get it on release date. Boy was I in for an adventure.
  
  Graphics: The games graphics are nice and done well. One of the best looking plat former games 
 I had even seen. Even in 3D mode, it still looks pretty good. I don't think 3D mode is barren and 
 plain like everyone else. It looks solid.
  
  Game play: The game play is what changed Paper Mario in this game. It went from rpg to platformer 
 with rpg elements. At first I thought this would turn out bland, but I was certainly wrong. The 
 game is fun and creative. The bad part is that the game is just too damn easy. I never died once 
 through out the whole game. The only hard part of the game was the Pit of 100 trails (2nd one) . 
 Other than that the game is brilliant. Sound: Great music. A lot of memorable ones and some throw 
 aways (Flipside town theme) . The soundtrack is good, but not as good as the previous Paper Mario's. 
 Value: The game is very long for a plat former. The main adventure lasts around 20 hours, and side 
 quests will last around an extra 3-4. That's really good for a plat former if you ask me. Only 
 if the added online to something :P. Overall this game rocks and is worth the wait and the hype. 
 Do yourself a favor and buy this game, top 3 for wii right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccab567
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 18, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  This gane had almost no flaws to it i thought it was just right in game play difficulty it spent 
 about a maximum of about 10 to 20 hours playing. I love the effects of 2D to 3D i thought they 
 were amazing i had so much fun playing if i had time i would probably play it again. Learning how 
 to play was not very hard except switching 2D to 3D and find hidden items in 3D that was a little 
 hard but nothing out of the ordinary. Putting everyone in one team even bowser was awesome it reminded 
 me of an old personal favorite of mine which would be super mario rpg. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDUB_x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  When Super Paper Mario was revealed for the Nintendo Gamecube back during E3 2006, purists were 
 shocked that the RPG gameplay was shelved in favor of a 2D platformer with Minor RPG elements. 
 After only one video at E3 the game disappeared from the radar for many months. Now Super Paper 
 Mario has Released not on the Gamecube but on Nintendo's Wii.
  
  Super Paper Mario begins with the Mario Brothers discovering the Evil Count Bleck's plot to destroy 
 all worlds. Count Bleck has set in motion the prophecy of the Dark Prognosticus and the destruction 
 of all worlds has begun. Upon Count Bleck's exit to his lair, he separates Mario from Luigi and 
 Peach and Mario finds himself in the town of Flipside. Upon entering Flipside, Mario is found by 
 the big mustached Merlon and told he is the Hero destined to save all worlds. After given a Pixel 
 companion named Tipi, Mario Sets out to find his friends and Save the Worlds from certain destruction. 
 Super Paper Mario is a Side Scrolling Action Platformer with some light RPG elements. Defeating 
 enemies gathers points that earn Mario and company Level ups that Increase Health, as well as Attack 
 power. There are also Healing Items and attack Items that can be used. Along for the trip are multicolored 
 creatures called Pixls, Pixls are helpers that grant the crew special abilities. Tipi, the starter 
 Pixl grants the power to find hidden objects, such as doors and treasure chests by pointing the 
 Wii remote at the screen. The various Pixls are very Important to solving the various puzzles and 
 making overall progress in the levels.
  
  The major twist in SPM is Mario's ability to flip the levels from 2D to 3D. by pressing the A button, 
 the entire land scape of he world flips into 3D to allow Mario to find objects and Paths that are 
 not accessible from the 2D perspective. The flip can only last about 10 seconds before Mario will 
 take a point of Damage. Other than Mario, players will also gain control of Peach, Bowser and one 
 other character. As with Mario's Flip ability, each playable character has a special ability. Bowser 
 can Breathe Fire to attack enemies and Peach can float to clear gaps as well as shield herself 
 from damage.
  
  Super Paper Mario is among the best titles available for the Nintendo Wii and is a great way to 
 spend 20+ hours. The Graphics are superb and really come to life with an amazing sense of style 
 and creativity. The music is really up beat and original with lots of classic Mario tunes and sound 
 effects thrown in the mix. The Gameplay is almost pure Mario Sidescroller and The Writing is also 
 extremely well done. The game features 8 different worlds to explore and a full town of Flipside 
 containing Shops and Extra challenges to partake in. Even after the Main Storyline is complete, 
 there are still quite a few side quests to attempt. Overall, Super Paper Mario is among the best 
 games on the Wii, as well as one of the best games so far of 2007. If you own a Wii, you need to 
 play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supr4Pap3rMario
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  Hello, GameSpot! First, my Super Paper Mario review, I am currently going into Chapter 8-4 and 
 this game is GREAT!!! The ability to use your various pixls to reach new different areas is cool 
 and adds to the replay value. It's going to be difficult to collect all of the cards and recipies 
 ect. because not only is there a Pit of 100 trials again but this time there is a second Pit, in 
 a town called Fopside which is needed to be opened to enter Chapters 6, 7, and 8, and I think 5, 
 i can't remember. The objective is to journey through eight different, unique worlds (with four 
 sub-worlds in each) collecting Pure Hearts to stop the main villian, Count Bleck who wants to destroy 
 ALL worlds. As you collect them you'll need to travel to the town of Flipside and Flopside to put 
 them back into the eart Pillars and talk to Merlon or Nolrem (Flopside Merlon) . Pixls are like ypur 
 party members in the previous games. Tippi, a butterfly-esque pixl travels with you through the 
 majority of the game. She can tell you enemy stats ex: HP, DEF, ATK. Also, she can look around 
 the room and give you details about objects by pointing the WiiMote at the TV screen. Boomer and 
 Thoreu are two pixls you earn early on. Boomer, as his name suggests can be used by pressing the 
 1 button to lay a bomb which will automatically explode in a few moments or can be detonated by 
 pressing 1 again. Items include varieties of Shroom Shakes which give you HP, Mega Stars which 
 are similar to Mega Shrooms in New Super Mario Bros. They give you a large 8-bit Mario (or other 
 character) sprite which destroys everything in your path giving you extra points (or Exp.) . Also, 
 in ? blocks you can find Pal Pills which spawn tiny 8-bit sprites of the character you're playing 
 as which can help you by jumping on enemies. The WiiMote motion capabilities are mainly used for 
 items (ex: Long-Lasat Shake) and to do Nice , Good , Great , Wonderful , and Excellent moves giving 
 you extra points. Every two levels you go up, your Max HP will increase by 5. On the levels you 
 don't gain MAX HP, your MAX attack will increase by 1. This is a fun game for any Wii player anywhere. 
 I give it a great rating of 9.4. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED&gt;!
  
  -WiiTarded comments end here 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funnyman39
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 18, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  okay, this game is definetly the bees knees! the storyline is amazing. i've already beaten the 
 first chapter and a half. the fights aren't as great but i can see past that. i have all the past 
 paper mario games and this one definelty beats em all. i have finally mastered the new way to hold 
 the wii remote. the game gets really addicting after the first hour or so. i'm surprised i left 
 the game to come on here and write this review. so anyway, if dom't have the game, get up right 
 now, head down to the game store and buy it. you'll get your money worth, believe me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazy-lasagna
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 17, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Yup, it's finally here.... SUPER PAPER MARIO! Super paper mario is one of the games with unique 
 graphics. how you say? the game is PAPER! The gameplay. it's fun. they changed it from the thousand 
 year door. and i like that because it can get pretty annoying having to go to goombas and well 
 fight. turn base style. Let's see graphics were awsome. paper... who woulda thought of that!? the 
 sound... it's pretty good, i mean it's just one problem. the problem is if your wiimote and the 
 sensor bar is in a different place, tippi (the butterfly that has te power to look at hidden stuff) 
 can be a problem with sound because i accidentely almost dropped the wiimote and tippi went CRAZY! 
 but overall its fine. Of course everyone loves mario! cough* (except fanboys out there) after you 
 beat the game tippi's gone (sad) but Francis gives you tiptron (weird name) . nothing really to 
 do after you beat the game. all you can do is the 100 pit trial and after that... your basically 
 done. overall for paper mario i give this game a 9.1 out of 10. Lazy Lasagna 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surferboy2177
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 19, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is a fun game that may surprise many critics out there. This time Nintendo's 
 iconic plumber is off, once again to save the world from sure destruction. This time however you'll 
 get help from Princess Peach, Luigi and even Mario's arch-rival bowser. Introductions aside this 
 game is actually surprisingly well made.
  
  gameplay- For those of you expecting the classic turn-base RPG formula that was found in earlier 
 Paper Mario games you won't find it here. The best way I could describe the game is a hybrid of 
 both Side-scrolling and a RPG, mixed with some adventure elements. The game plays like a traditional 
 side-scroller where the goal is to get from one side to another, however there is a level progression 
 scheme where you level up as you pounce on enemies. Mario also has the ability ti flip into 3-D 
 in order to solve puzzles and defeat certain enemies. The other three characters also have their 
 own special techniques. Peach has the ability to float using her umbrella and use it as a shield 
 to block enemy attacks. Luigi has the ability to perform a super jump that allows for higher elevation, 
 and Bowser has increased attack power and the ability to shoot out flames. On top of all that you 
 also have the ability to use odd little creatures called pixls. Pixls give you special abilities 
 like being able to grab things, or use a hammer, or float over spikes. You acquire these pixls 
 throughout the game to use in your adventure. Overall the gameplay was actually pretty fun and 
 creative, although I do wish that the motion controls would have been used a little more (You really 
 only use them when you use certain items) , and controlling yourself in 3-D is kind of hard without 
 an analog stick. The game is also really easy. I got through the whole game without dying one time. 
 Minor grievances aside the game does play pretty well, regardless. Graphics- OK say what you want 
 about the graphics, sure it looks like a gamecube game and what not, but I found the graphics to 
 be quite charming. The game has a creative artistic look which makes the game look cute sure, but 
 also endearing at the same time. The only thing that bothered me was that the camera in 3-D mode 
 was pretty bad at time. However since most of the game was 2-D anyway it wasn't a huge problem. 
 Sound- Nothing much to say here. There wasn't any speech or anything, except for some quirks here 
 and there. The music was pretty well orchestrated, but that's about it really.
  
  Value- This game has pretty reasonable value. the main quest is kind of short (I completed it in 
 under 20 hours) , but there are other things to do after the main quest is done. Overall this is 
 a pretty good game with fun gameplay, original graphics and a descent amount of stuff to do. If 
 you're looking for a classic turn-based RPG like past Paper Mario games you might want to look 
 elsewhere, but if you want to try something new. you may be pleasantly surprised with Super Paper 
 Mario. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xeidog69
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 17, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  When first reading about super paper mario I was both intrigued and at the same time had some doubts 
 being as much has changed compared to previous incarnations fo paper mario, let me say I was at 
 first excited because I loved all the paper mario and mario rpg games, then I was dissapointed 
 because of all the differances I had read about..
  
  well anyway out of all the wii titles out there this was probably the only current wii title worth 
 playing that I have not already completely conquered..
  So I managed to get a copy of this title the day it was released, I took it home after work and 
 started playing it, most things that have been in previous paper mario games r there, shops, fortune 
 tellers etc.. however the turn based fighting was removed and ya know what im totally fine with 
 it, the rpg elements r for the most part almost non-existent now, which has its plus's and its 
 minus's but nothing to write home about..
  
  actually the fact that turn based everything is gone is kinda cool because now you can do all sorts 
 of cool stuff diring combat and it sometimes makes for some interesting fights/moments...., if 
 you r injured you can also avoid alot of dangers by flipping from 2d-3d, also you can only get 
 to certain areas by flipping.. the neatest thing on top of flipping from 2d-3d r these little characters 
 called pixl's which you find throught the many stages of the game, these pixels give you the ability 
 to do differant things and usually aid you in reaching places that were inaccessable previously..
 
  
  the artwork is simple which im kinda becoming accustomed to on the wii thus far, but it definately 
 has alot of style to it, nintendo and intelligent systems definately do a great job of making something 
 simple seem so damn genius.. seriously though this game feels totally nostalgic when in 2d mode 
 its like playing some good old school mario.. then you throw in the multiple twist the game offers 
 you and you got an instant classic... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmw1981
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2007 12:06 am PT
Review:  I felt like it was a little too easy, but the puzzles and unique 2D-3D gameplay really worked nicely. 
 I just beat it and really enjoyed the story, although a little childish, but still fun. The old 
 school references (like the DS in the chef's kitchen, the Wii load screen circle on that first 
 boss and the classic characters when you powerup with a star) were some great flashback moments 
 for me. It wasn't easy to hit the enemies in 3D mode, but the bosses were just way to easy to me. 
 The key is the atmosphere and each world was completely different. I really loved Super Mario RPG 
 on SNES and I feel that they should get back to that style of gameplay to separate Paper Mario 
 from common Super Mario games in the series (Super Mario World, New Super Mario Bros (DS) ) . Controls 
 were awesome, especially compared to all the troubles of a Gamecube controller layout, pretty much 
 the retro NES style. This game is all about using your head more than difficult bosses or levels. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aal9922
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 16, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  this game was the second best game that i have ever brought for the wii. the first one was zelda 
 which was a good game but when i played this one, i just had to keep playing this game. i been trying 
 to get this game ever since last friday but they did'nt have it but when i went there on last week 
 wednesday, they had it and i brought it. i am so glad that i brought this game because it is really 
 entertaining and anyone would love it. nintendo fans, spend your spare cash on this game. anybody 
 that get this game would play it until their nintendo wii bursts into flames. lol just joking. but 
 seriously, it's a best seller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k_smoove
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario was a huge surprise for me. I bought it expecting to have a fun, but not immersive 
 experience. Early on in the game, I realized just how good this game is. The plot may sound simple, 
 but it is surprisingly deep, just like the gameplay. The title also packs a ton of humor, just 
 like the other Mario RPGs. The main feature of the game is Mario's unique ability to flip between 
 dimensions at will. This is always fun, even at the end of the game.
  
  Good: 2D to 3D flipping is very innovative. Excellent sense of humor; lots of unique Pixls to collect; 
 a few fun challenges to complete after beating the game; lengthy main quest; lovable cast.
  
  Bad: Lots of enemy and character models are borrowed from previous games; Luigi joins your 
 party way too late.
  
  Final Words: Super Paper Mario is easily the best game on the Wii. It's very original and just 
 plain fun, even if it is a little on the easy side. As Francis might say, Hi-Technicaaaaaal!
  
  Break it Down:
  Gameplay: Clever use of flipping between dimensions, perfect mix of RPG and 
 Platformer elements.: 10
  
  Graphics: Simple, but very pleasing and crisp. Each world has its own unique style. Character models 
 are recycled from older games, though: 9
  
  Sound: Every song fits the area's mood perfectly. Some songs aren't particularly memorable, though: 
 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adireron
Rating: 4.8
Date: Apr 16, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  I've been a big fan of the Paper Mario games for a long time. Ever since the original 'Paper Mario' 
 came out for the N64 I was obsessed. If I remember correctly it really was the first game I stayed 
 up the entire night and played until the wee hours of the morning. So when I popped in this next 
 installment of Paper Mario, I was waiting to be pleased. It didn't happen. Something doesn't click 
 with the new gameplay, with upgrades, and level ups. It just doesn't feel Paper Mario enough to 
 me. I think part of me really says, Yes for real time combat! and the other part of me says, But 
 what happened to all the strategizing and timing you had to do? I remember meticulously planning 
 every move so I could get maximum damage, but this... this just isn't right. I'm sorry Nintendo, 
 I was excited, and now... well, now, I don't know what to think. They marketed the 3-D flip ability 
 as AWESOME and extremely useful... More like extremely OVER useful. If there's a puzzle, you can 
 solve it by pressing that A button...
  
  It's definitely fun for a couple hours, but not like the original Paper Mario. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umbriell
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 17, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario (SPM) stars the usual cast of Mario heroes and villain (Bowser) in another zany 
 adventure outside the more traditional platformer entries. Whats different this time around for 
 Mario and Co. is that rather than give gamers a straight RPG or a straight platformer, Nintendo 
 has fused RPG elements with platformer elements to create a game that is both and neither. Ive 
 heard and read Nintendos people saying that Super Paper Mario is 80 percent platformer and 20 
 percent RPG. This is a stretch, and in my opinion is wrong. Its much closer to half and half. 
 Dont let the early levels footage of SPM out there fool you.
  
  Super Paper Mario is an RPG and a platformer, but it defines genre, really. Much has been said 
 about the game and its mechanics, visuals, storyline, sound, and especially its gameplay. The defining 
 characteristic of SPM is Marios ability to switch from a side-scrolling 2-D environment to the 
 third dimension. Keep in mind this 3-D is not Mario 64s 3-D. It is more like 2.5-D. When in 3-D 
 mode in SPM, Mario is constrained to a very narrow 3-D plain, but this convention works to fine 
 effect. A fully 3-D world, a la Super Mario 64, would be seriously challenging. SPMs 2.5-D is 
 plenty challenging as it stands. In terms of challenge, the game offers up a hefty 20+ hour experience 
 for the main quest alone. Side quests in the form of collecting cards, tokens, and cooking add 
 hours to the main quest. SPM consists of eight worlds dived into approximately four chapter each. 
 Other reviews of SPM cite imbalance between the pacing of levels. I also found this to be true. 
 Later chapters require considerable time to complete and come with increased difficulty in puzzle 
 solving and enemy difficulty. This is all well and good, but strains the ratio of platformer to 
 RPG mentioned earlier. That is, the beginning of the game feels most like a platformer and the 
 end of the game saddles the experience with some heavy RPG elements. Visually SPM does not disappoint. 
 Flipping back and forth between 2-D and 3-D never looses its appealthe same cannot be said for 
 the puzzle solving element of the dimensional shift. Overall there is a visual coherence to SPM 
 that despite a few design choices works to immerse the gamer. The several worlds in SPM represent 
 very different styles, some of them more consistent within the main style of the game than others. 
 Some of the levels are a bit bland and rely too much on the 2-D sprite conceit. Enemy characters 
 on a whole are also blander in design than in other Paper Mario entries. Overall, SPM could have 
 benefited from taking design cues from its most vividly colored levels. Some levels could use some 
 sprucing up.
  
  Musically the game falls short of previous major Mario entries. This point has been made in almost 
 every review Ive read of the game. While there are some standout musical moments, the music in 
 this game is minimalist and mostly forgettable. Was the musical minimalism a conscious design choice? 
 Im sure it was. Would the game have benefited from a more robust score? Definitely. Also, aside 
 from a very few canned murmurs from Mario and palswhich are great and make for laughsthere are 
 hardly any character noises to speak of, say nothing of pages and pages of dialog. Well written, 
 clever, and witty, sure, but the pages of dialog will slow younger readers to the brink of frustration. 
 Not to mention make some older users skip ahead of some of the dialog impatiently. Some of my favorite 
 moments in the game ultimately failed to satisfy often because there were too few of them, like 
 dialog from BowserYou believed your prophecy and we believed in mopping the floor with you and 
 You never give up this easily when you attack my castle. Other hysterical references exemplified 
 the lucidity of the storyline like references to which button to push on the Wiimote, clever puns 
 of where game heroes go when they die, and multiple examples of games ending. But like a Lays Potato 
 chip one or several is never enough. Things I did not like so much included a reliance of repetition 
 at certain moments of the game, like going back to the main town between worlds to find a place 
 to stick the Pure Heart, and very little real incentive to complete some of the side quests. Super 
 Paper Mario charms mostly with its humor that oozes pop cultural and self-referential tidings. 
 Gameplay holds up well and offers something new. The Wiimote on its side works fine. Aside from 
 the minor pain of having most of the actions embedded in menus which can slow the gameplay considerably 
 (and truthfully makes the game as a whole feel much more like an RPG than I had expected) , there 
 really was no better way of mapping SPMs controls to the Wiimote. Pointing actions with the Wiimote 
 do not feel tacked on. And a few Wii-motion actions are seamlessly integrated into Mario and Co. s 
 attack repertoire. On its own Super Paper Mario is a fantastic addition to a nearly stalled supply 
 of new games for the Wii early in its life cycle. Its probably the second best game on the system 
 to date. Im not sure though that it satisfies completely. Mario platformer fans will tire of the 
 games length and RPG difficulty. True RPG fans will scoff at the mere mention of RPG in any review 
 of Super Paper Mario. Fans of Mario will like the adventure, but I dont know if they will gush 
 over it. In some ways Mario and his buddies have spread themselves thin across so many Nintendo 
 properties that one cant help but think that SPM contributes to that overwhelming feeling rather 
 than enhances the Mario universe. There is a lot to love about Super Paper Mario, but in the end 
 it doesnt quite deliver like the platformers do, like New Super Mario Brothers and Mario 64 do. 
 Super Paper Mario probably stands tallest and proudest as a worthy update to the Mario RPG series. 
 If you are a huge fan of the Mario RPG games this is probably your 9.0-9.5 Editors Choice game. 
 If you are a bigger fan of the Mario platformers SPM is more like an 8-8.5 game. Like Super Paper 
 Mario Im somewhere in between. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _-SMILEYDUDE-_
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 16, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  It is a pretty good game in the gameplay department but its to easy with the 3-D, if you are stuck 
 go 3-D theres your answer. the flash light thing is just really anoying especially since it tells 
 you how to beat the bosses. The sound sucks just like normal mario drom gray gameboy beep, bepp 
 even when talking. Don't you think they need voice acting give the mario series a new due. The 
 graphics are defintly original but i think so 2 year old asian drew them and then gave them to 
 a developer. this game isn't great but lots of replay value once you get into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioistheman1
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is soo great i wouldnt be surprised if the WII sold 1 million units next month. Everything 
 about it is amazing and the lengthy adventure even makes it better. Paper mario games have always 
 been my favorite and to tell you the truth the orginal one for the N64 is godly. No game i have 
 played beat it. Super Paper Mario comes pretty close to the N64 version on its fun factor. I just 
 bought the game three days ago and have spent 13 hours on it and am only on chapter 3. This game 
 is addicting and once you start playing it you cant stop. The First Masterpeice to hit the Wii! 
 I reccomend this to absoultly everyone no matter your age! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: immortalcyrax
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  its awsome if anyone reads this good choice that game is freakin fun and in this one luigi is a 
 playable character finally seriusly you have got to play this game freaking awsome! you can be 
 bowser peach luigi and mario (duh) its got really good gameplay the difficulty isnt very hard graphics 
 almost the same as thousand year door and you might be playing this for a long time! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! soooooooo much freaking fun also your gonna need your 
 brain for this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coreygames
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 16, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  Sorry guys, but I can't write you an intro this time... I have a pretty nasty paper cut. BA-DUMP-TISHHHHH
 
  
  Worst joke ever aside, it's time to enter the universe of paper mario once more in the newly released 
 Super Paper Mario . As any good ol' Mario tale would begin, the Princess is missing and you need 
 to find her. Of course you check out Bowser's place to see if she's there, but you find out that 
 he actually hasn't done anything this time. As it would turn out, a wierd guy with a pimpin' cane 
 shows up and ruins your life... and then you get to play? No. Prepare for:
  
  PAPER MARIO: REVENGE OF THE TEXT BOX
  
  Yes, there will be much reading. Like the other Paper 
 Marios, this is a heavily story-ridden game. If there is a character you can talk to, they probably 
 have a page worth of words to say to you. Which is alright, because the story of the game is good. 
 The undertone is completely saturated by love . Everything in this game has to do with love . If 
 it isn't love, then it's hearts. Story plays out over a nice lengthy game. It took me nearly 17 
 hours to beat this game.
  
  The game is a blend of Action RPG and Platformer. The RPG elements work great just as they always 
 have in previous Paper Mario games. Leveling up gives you a noticeable increase of strength and 
 health (alternating every time you level up) . The platforming was fine, but I have come to expect 
 a lot more from a game that has Mario in a title. The world isn't free roaming, you have to pick 
 Chapters of worlds to visit to explore them. This means that if you wanted to go to point A.3 (for 
 example) while you are at point C.2, then you have to exit from world C, go back to the main lobby 
 world, go to the entrance to world A, then make it to where you want to go. This is how most of 
 the Mario platformers work, I know, but the Paper Mario franchise hardly came close to this type 
 of gameplay. I mostly have a great disappointment with the last few segments of the game.
  
  Mostly, the last part of the game up to the ending was filler. To keep any spoilers from leaking, 
 I'll just say that Nintendo imagination ran dry after a while and it showed through those slow 
 and dragging last level. The game became like a 100 step staircase with buckets of water on top 
 that you had to carry down to the bottom without spilling. Yes, you are constantly in action, but 
 is so lame and tedious it feels like you are doing busy work for a teacher.
  
  Overall, the game was way too easy. I didn't die once throughout this entire adventure. You may 
 think, You've been playing games, let alone Mario, your whole life, what did you expect? Even though 
 that's true, I did die repeatedly in the other Paper Marios and Super Mario World (Which I recently 
 downloaded and beat [tell me if you want a review of that] and was a great game) . Not to say the 
 game was not challenging, but you couuld easily infer what you had to do next.
  
  The game also felt a little like fan servicery. While most of the game was completely original, 
 other parts seemed like they took it from the other Paper Marios. The mentioning of rupees in the 
 game is one example of this. Although this feeling only seemed to come from things like that. The 
 music and places were original, but enemies and items seemed copied and pasted onto the game. Speaking 
 of copied and pasted, the Wii mote was a bit tact on. Yes, this game WAS intended to be a GC game, 
 but it missed it. The only real time you even use the motion sensing is with the items, and you 
 hardly ever have to use them because the game is easy enough to complete without them.
  
  During the adventure, you get to control different characters. Each of the characters plays fairly 
 different, because they have their own special ability. The problem with this is that once you 
 find a character you like, you can stick with them pretty much throughout the rest of the game 
 because the other characters are only needed for specific things like jumping abnormally large 
 gaps or melting ice. Combat has been reduced back to Mario 1 gameplay. I think it is very sad when 
 Mario cannot pick stuff up WITHOUT A SPECIAL PIXI TO DO IT FOR HIM.
  
  My biggest let down for this game was the fact that it was Paper Mario. I really like the other 
 Paper Mario games, just because they are the only turn-based RPGs that I can tollerate as well 
 as love. After beating this game, I have no real incentive to go back through and find the stuff 
 I missed. The game was all about the story, and when the show's over, what's left to do other than 
 pick up the popcorn? The game was really exciting for the first 11 hours... that I played straight... 
 but it fely like it was all built up for next to nothing.
  
  In the end, I can walk away from this game happy, but it is far from perfect. I was hoping that 
 I would want to find all the cool stuff in this game so that this Wii drought would be more bearable, 
 but it looks like I'm going to go back to the VC for support (Which isn't necessarily an aweful 
 thing)
  
  7/10 (integer scale)
  
  Save up your coins so that you can buy this game NOW... or just rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axel_rocks14
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 15, 2007 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario suceeds in so many ways i am having a hard time thinking about it. This game 
 is just so awesome. The old school feel, the 2d to 3d perspective in a click of a button, RPG elements 
 with Platformer, and multiple characters just make this game a must have. But there is more than 
 running through the levels like the original mario bros.
  There is many puzzles along away that might stump you a few times in a non-frustrating way. Also 
 it would not ba a Paper Mario game without the storyline, the leveling up, the great humor, and 
 the quirky characters make this game a insta-buy for any wii owner.
  
  Pro: Same great humor and quirky characters from past paper marios; nice, clean graphics; 2d to 
 3d perspective is excellent; RPG and Platformer is a good mix.; very fun to play
  
  Con: Not much replay value, sound is not as catchy as the past paper marios, sometimes the 3d world 
 looks dull with lack of detail in some points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMH74767
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 15, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  I originally was going to buy this game, I even preordered, but for some reason I decided to rent 
 this game first just to see what its all about.
  I should say that my expectations were high especially after playing through Paper Mario on the 
 good ol Gamecube, after playing this game for a couple of days I definately can see the quality, 
 but I hate to say it, the story isn't as compelling as the one on the Gamecube, I definately love 
 the platforming style, its very fun, but it just feels like something is missing, I can't put my 
 finger on it. The graphics look pretty good for the gamecube, just wish they originally kept their 
 promise and released it on the cube, I don't like the art style, it just looks lazy to me, the 
 2d looks good, but once you flip it to 3D it looks really bare. The game play isn't that great, 
 in terms of what the Wii Remote can do. I don't like holding the controller sideways without moving 
 around, my hands cramp up, if they were planning on using traditional controls, they should at 
 least give the option of using the nunchuck.
  
  The sound in this game are pretty typical for this type of game, theme song is forgettable, it 
 just doesn't feel like they put alot of work into it. In closing, I know it seems that I've had 
 more complaints than compliments, but after playing Paper Mario Thousand Year Door on the gamecube, 
 they could've done so much more with this one, I'm definately glad I had a chance to play this 
 game, but I just don't think its worth $50. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagnusGman
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario is the third game in Nintendo's Paper Mario franchise. Although the first two 
 Paper Mario's' were Role Playing based, Super Paper Mario retraces the steps of the Original Super 
 Mario, recalling all things that made gaming what it is today. With Platforming and Role Playing 
 elements, this newly released Wii game, is probably the best since the perfect launch of Twilight 
 Princess. Although the graphics MAY seem outdated, they continue to maintain the cartoony feel, 
 and paperiness the series is known for. The best thing about this game, is the sheer creativeness 
 and humor of the dialogue. Paper Mario is most probably the best Wii game to appear in the year 
 2007 so far. This will probably fill the gap that players wanted to fill with Super Mario Galaxies. 
 At least this gap is filled about halfway... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FabioFresh
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 15, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  In Super Paper Mario you don't just play as an Italian plumber, You can play as an Italian GREEN 
 plumber as well, along with Peach and Bowser. For people who played the original Super Mario Bros., 
 you'll love this game and it will be much easier for you. But there are 4 big twists, each of the 
 4 characters have a special ability.
  
  GOOD THINGS!!!
  This game goes way back to old platform jumping Mario. Still RPG fans won't miss RPG Mario cause 
 you get power ups and levels ect. Also you can collect cards of enemies and characters. If you 
 have a card of an enemy then you'll do double the damage to them. I think this is the best thing 
 about the Paper Mario games, they have a great story line! We're all used to the ol' Peach gets 
 kidnapped so Mario's gotta kick Bowser's a**, AGAIN!!! But this game introduces new villians like 
 Count Bleck, Natasia, Mimi, Dimentio, and O' Chunks. I hope to see these villians in more Mario 
 games, probably as allies cause at the end they turn good except for Dimentio. Remember I said 
 SPOILER ALERT at the begining so you can't get mad at me if I spoiled it for you.
  
  BAD THINGS!!!
  THIS GAME IS TO F***IN SHORT!!! Even shorter if you're a Mario pro like me cause 
 you beat it in less than a week! It took me 3 or 4 days to beat the game, it's that easy and short. 
 Also the flipping between 2D and 3D become a chore during the game . First it's fun but then it 
 becomes boring. Also if you want to go back and replay levels it's not as fun because the bosses 
 are gone, puzzles are solved, and other stuff are missing.
  
  The point is for a first time around making a Paper Mario game like this Nintendo did a hell of 
 a job. I would like to see the rest of the Paper Mario games like this from now on, but Nintendo 
 would have to change those mistakes I talked about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Chocobo
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  The old school feel of this game is awesome.
  I admit its not as addictive as Paper Mario and Paper Mario Thousand year door, but its just as 
 great!
  basically if you have a Wii pick this game up!
  hell if you don't have a Wii pick one up FOR this game!
  worth every penny
  every second
 
  Just a blast to play!
  Though the Controls can be a little different at times you get used to it!
  Plus.. Luigi is a 
 playable character!
  and we all know everyone wants Paper Luigi in his own game... soon i say... soon!!! ! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csuwjzskqibkyn
Rating: 2.1
Date: Apr 15, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  Right up front you should know something is wrong when you see the words Mario and RPG in the same 
 sentence. I wish I had remembered that before I purchased this title. Honestly, this game is a 
 joke. Most of the game is spent between constant switching between 2d and 3d (Mario only, takes 
 3 seconds) , switching characters for special abilities (for example super jump Luigi only, glide 
 Peach only. Procedure, open menu, select character, watch animation of drawing box around character, 
 flip out, drawing new box for new character, flip in. takes 4 seconds) , switching abilities (see 
 switching characters) , and running back and forth preforming mindless quests . My favorite example 
 of the idiocy that went into designing this game is the npc that requires you to type in please 
 5 times using the old fashioned d-pad letter selection method so you can learn a 25 part long right/middle/left 
 password. Why they refused to use the nice point and click wii pad I'll never know. Lets not forget 
 some other shining examples of mindlessness. Like the blank world (flat, empty, white) where you 
 have to run, I'm sorry, walk since you don't get the run ability till somewhere near the end of 
 the game, to the right for about 4 minutes before you are forced into another cut scene. Or, the 
 rupee building exercise, where you spend 5 minutes running to the right (or left, but right works 
 better) in a giant hamster wheel (it may have been longer, but I started reading a book to pass 
 the time) . Or world 6-1 where you are told you have to fight 100 nearly identical 1 on 1 battles 
 all fought in exactly identical rooms, consecutively. They actually make you fight through 25 of 
 them, before a plot device happens and they let you just walk past the next 10 or so, still forcing 
 you to traverse each of those rooms (trust me, this is worse than it sounds) . Even then, with all 
 the consecutive battles without respite, this is not a challenging task, just time consuming. Thats 
 what it all comes down to, time consuming. Not terribly surprising when you consider that the entire 
 game is based around a gimmick. All of the switching and flipping ends up feeling very much like 
 trying to find the last couple missles in Super Metroid. You know, take 5 steps, use scanner, take 
 5 steps, use scanner etc. None of the Mario side-scroller charm is here. the platforming is simple 
 enough for a 5 year old to navigate while chewing gum and holding a conversation simultaneously 
 ( if they had made movement a tilt based function they could probably have done it single handed 
 as well) , and most everything that requires precision timing can be bypassed with a flip to 3d. 
 You are never pressed for time, and with all the health power ups you can carry you are rarely 
 pressed for anything. In fact nothing in this game is truly challenging, aside from stomaching 
 the cut scenes and the god awful soundtrack. Ah, the soundtrack. We're talking 30 second loops 
 of the most finely aged and uninspired drivel I've heard since... since... I can't even remember 
 ever having been so disappointed by a soundtrack. Not only is it uninspired and repetitive, it 
 is also extremely grating. This is not comfortable bg music, this is turn off the sound and hope 
 you aren't missing any audio only clues . Not that it would make a difference if you were. You 
 have Navi, uh, I mean, Tippi.
  
  Not quite as irritating as Link's little puff ball, is Tippi, your very own plot device in a box. 
 Think Midna without the charm. Performs the same basic functions, flitters around uselessly, describes 
 things, asks rhetorical questions and tells you nearly exactly what you have to do whenever you 
 get even part ways stuck. Just in case you weren't insulted enough.
  
  The only three redeeming qualities in my book are the humor, the homage to classic titles and the 
 look. It looks nice. The looks however are like everything else in this game (yes, even the few 
 chuckles I am Error will squeeze out of you) , a gimmick. If I wanted looks I would have bought 
 myself an Xbox. In fact, if this is what we have to look forward to in the coming years I might 
 just do that anyways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultrashroom77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Everything from running, jumping, hitting ? mark boxes to collecting items, having a storyline, 
 and leveling up. Super Paper Mario does an excellent job of combining old and new. There are many 
 memorable moments in this game and getting to play from a selection of 4 main characters eventually 
 in the game along with a whole slew of pixls makes this game really stand out from the past Paper 
 Mario's. The game ranges in difficulty. The first 4 chapters or so will not take long at all, but 
 some later puzzles and the pit of 100 trials may drive you insane. The adventure is long and satisfying 
 for the most part. Though there are some tedious tasks and boss battles are over way too quickly, 
 this is still by far one of the best Wii games out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew_LL
Rating: 3.3
Date: Apr 14, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  I've never played a game more disappointing than this. I picked this up the day I was thinking 
 about throwing my Wii away with the money I got from selling the games I used to have for it. Lets 
 just say that I wasted my money. The entire game is glitched up to hell and back and the sounds 
 are the same recycled, so-called retro tunes that seem to be all the rage on the Wii. I really 
 feel for anyone who bought this, it is an extreme waste of time and is NOT fun at ANY level. Just 
 avoid this like the plague. It's less deadly than it, but the plague hurts way less than this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaybee_2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 24, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  I have different categories that I'll average together to make my overall review for this game. 
 Here they are:
  
  Plotline: 9.5
  The plotline is DEFINITELY one of this game's strong points. It's a mystery, which I love in games. 
 It's very suspenseful, and kept me wondering throughout the entire game. However, the ending was 
 a little rushed and seemed forced, which causes me to take off a few points. But the plotline itself 
 was amazing and obviously well-thought out. The romance in it was very sweet and brought the ending 
 together. It definitely deserves a 9.5.
  
  Characters: 9.0
  I loved the characters in this game. There were quirky ones, cute ones, evil ones, mysterious ones, 
 and just cool ones. There were some characters I really loved (like Squirps -- he was just plain 
 adorable!) , some who always made me laugh (like O' Chunks and Dimentio -- they always had something 
 funny to say!) , and some who were so mysterious that they made me really think (Tippi, obviously) . 
 However, near the end certain characters seemed to change too dramatically (like Bleck -- one minute 
 he's uber-evil, the next he's apologizing and drooling over Timpani again?) . Some of them also 
 seemed a little boring, and I would've liked to hear from some of the other Pixls other than Tippi 
 at times.
  
  Gameplay: 8.2
  The gameplay style was unique and fresh, and I loved how it blended RPGs and platformers together. 
 It was awesome. But it just seemed so... different from its two prequels! I mean, I wasn't expecting 
 a carbon-copy of its two originals, but I believe that this one strayed a little too far. What 
 I really miss was the turn-taking style of battle that was in the first two games. That was something 
 I really liked about those games, but they took it out of this one. Some of the bosses also seemed 
 a little too easy. However, there were a lot of very addictive and difficult puzzles that I had 
 to figure out, which I really liked about this game.
  
  Music: 9.0
  The music in this game was catchy and upbeat, which I really loved about it. It was really danceable 
 and fun to listen to. The different places all had really good music that fit each description 
 of each place. But although it was catchy, it didn't have the... well... zing of the two previous 
 games' musics.
  
  In average, it gets an 8.7 -- awesome, but could've been better if they hadn't changed it so much. 
 All-in-all, it was a really cool game that I'll definitely be playing again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiifan127
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is better than Zelda. I said it. You don't have to believe me. The story is, some guy 
 name Count Bleck has forced Peach and Bowser to get married, causing a dimension rift creating 
 a void that will destroy the world!!! This is possible with the help of the Dark Prognosticus. 
 Luckily, 1,500 ago, a lady wrote a Light Prognosticus to counter the bad one. So Mario meets a 
 Pixl (your sidekicks in this game) that takes you to a guy named Merlon in another dimension who 
 says Mario's the legendary hero. Then the game turns into a platformer. You also get the ability 
 to flip the world from 2-D to 3-D to reveal hidden things which is awesome. The game is quite shorter 
 than the other Paper Marios, but I'm about 11 hours in and I'm in Chapter 6 out of 8, so its still 
 a lengthy title. You can play as Bowser, Peach, and Luigi as well. There are 13 pixls in all as 
 well. Well, I'm off to play more Super Paper Mario! Worth every penny! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 6, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is excellent! Nintendo said they were going to deliver and they delivered. Super Paper 
 Mario is the latest in a series of Mario RPG type games, and has been the only one in my opinion 
 to get it right. They have taken the best part of RPGs and the best part of Mario platformers and 
 married them together in great harmony. In this game you get to play as Mario, Peach, Bowser and 
 each of them have their own special powers. You fight against you're enemies just like you do in 
 the old school 2-D Mario platformers. As you defeat opponants you level up and aquire new powers 
 as you gain expierence. The levels are even set up much like Mario games as in Chapter 1-4 and 
 so on and so forth. You can enter town and buy items, talk to people to gain info, and find secrets 
 just like in other RPGs. The graphics are perfect for this game. They are cell shaded, and you 
 feel like you playing a comic book. The controls are simple. You hold your Wii mote sideways and 
 1 and 2 are your main action buttons. + is your menu and - is your control configuration. You move 
 with the directional pad, and you change from 2-D to 3-D with the A button! Yes that's right, 2-D 
 to 3-D. This function isn't just a quirky add on, but a great way of opening up the game to new 
 areas. As the game goes on your doing your usual Mario thing and attempting to save the universe 
 from the Evil Count Bleck. The story line is filled with slap stick comedy that adults and children 
 can laugh at. Frankly with the lame amout of games that have come out for the Wii recently (aside 
 from Twilight Princess, Madden, and Wii sports which are all totally great) , Super Paper Mario 
 is a refreshing change from the poor attempts at games that have come out recently. It's a great 
 and fun addition to a Wii library and makes your mouth water for Galaxy. There are some extras 
 to find, but once you've beaten the game there is little reason to replay it. The story is pretty 
 well told the first time through and the ending of the game is so frustrating and annoying you 
 don't want to play through again. Still it's a good pick up for a little while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 14, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  So far the wii hasn't had alot of great hits aside from zelda and a few others, so its nice to 
 have a refreshing experience with Super Paper Mario. Like most mario games in the passed this game 
 has 8 levels or chapters as there called. Everything looks like paper in a sense, but mario has 
 an ability to flip into 3D making this game preety neat. You hold the wii mote on its side like 
 you did with sonic and preety much use it like a normal controler. You play the game like a classic 
 mario game by stomping on things heads and such. The game offers rpg elements with items to use 
 to attack enemies like lightning bolts of hp recovery items. You also have levels in this game 
 which boost your overall states. The game offers 4 characters all with there own abilities and 
 there level are all the same. The games graphics are very colorful and nice to look at and the 
 music is preety well done. For a post to be gc game this game adds a few nice features like shacking 
 the wii mote for bonus points and unfreezing yourself. Also by pointing at the screen you can use 
 tippy to identify items and there states. Theres so many reviews for this game I think its pointless 
 to go into any more depth so just go out and buy this game as its one of the best the wii has to 
 offer at this point in time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmedzub
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 14, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  This is by far the best Wii game yet. The art is beautiful and the game play is so much fun. The 
 ability to switch through the world of 3D and 2D is in my opinion the most intelligent idea ever, 
 in the history of the gaming industry. The full effect of this idea can only be completed the the 
 ingenious design of the wii controller. This game is all around fun and humorous also and is suitable 
 for all ages. The one thing that Nintendo failed to do though as they have in many other games 
 was to add the voice effect. This is the only reason i can not give this game a perfect 10. The 
 game play was perfect the tilt was perfect the art was amazing and this game's value is a perfect 
 10 it only failed in sound like most other Nintendo games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duk57
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 13, 2007 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, this game is great, the graphics are awsome in 2D and in 3D it's pretty good too... i don't 
 know why people are complaining about the 3D world being barren... it is pretty dull but if they 
 made it more full of life, it would have made the game waaay more complicated. I love how they get 
 more old-school in this one with the side-scrolling aspect and the 3D switch was a really smart 
 idea. I love how they took most of the RPG elements out of this Paper Mario game. Some RPG elements 
 still remain but their really Castlevania-esque, as in, you don't really worry about it because 
 you automaticly level up as you defeat enemies because I personally don't like turn-based RPG's. 
 The world are really cool, there's a pixelated world that has a room that is an exact recreation 
 of level 1-2 on Super Mario Bros. including the hidden warp pipes, theres a space level with some 
 space shooting aspects, there's also a fun caveman level. The game is a bit on the easy side compaired 
 to other mario side-scrollers but it isn't too easy due to some challenging puzzles. All in all, 
 this game is a must-buy for wii owners and in my opinion, is the best Paper Mario game out there. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: papery0shi2
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 13, 2007 9:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is so awesome, I am only 7 hours to the game and I'm simply amazed. If you are a Paper 
 Mario fan then this is a must buy. Being able to play as Bowser ( my second favorite Nintendo character) 
 just made me so happy. The graphics is beautiful, The game play is is fun. The music is not the 
 best but it's not bad either. When i first heard of this game i was a little disappointed but it's 
 Paper Mario so i bought it. I'm trying my best not to beat it too quickly because i want to enjoy 
 this as much as i can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofdabeach2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  Nintendo and Intelligent Sys. did a great job with this hybrid of a platformer / rpg game. I was 
 kinda dissapionted when I heard they took out the turn based fighting from this Paper Mario game. 
 But when I played it I instanlty fell in love with it and I guarrantee you will too. If you played 
 any side scrolling Mario game you know how to attack jump on some heads lol. But thats not all 
 as mario you can flip it 3-d and flip back to 2-d. Also you have sum little freinds that give you 
 speical abilities like throwing and others. You can also use Bowser and Peach they have their own 
 abilities also. The story is charming and funny. Nuting too complex but will have u laughing and 
 enjoying it every step of the way. Graphics are nice and colorful and very creative. Sound it has 
 alot of remixed nostalgic tunes to it which dont' bother me one bit. Basically if you love Mario 
 games and having fun get this game you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timothyc123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario. While at the first look of that title, you might think It's just another game 
 in the famous RPG Series. But it is better than that. Super Paper Mario take the series in a completely 
 new direction. Instead of being your average turned based RPG, SPM is a Platformer with some RPG 
 still left in it. Strange mix at first, indeed, but it proves to be a perFect one. Nothing can 
 describe how much I love playing SPM. You get to play as Peach, Mario, Bowser, and LUIGI! Luigi 
 finally gets some of the spotlight in SPM, which is another reason why I like it. Each of them 
 have their own abiltes that make them unique.
  
  One of the major things in this game is the ability to swap between 2D/3D, to get a differnet perspective, 
 on the world.
  
  One of things that get in the way of SPM is Dialogue. Too much of it. Blah, blah ,blah on and on. 
 That is the only thing bad about this game.
  
  Other than that, SPM is awesome. You will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: footballstar07
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2007 11:40 pm PT
Review:  New is better isnt it. Despite the new levels and new story line, The fighting system is extremely 
 different. This brings a new kick into the paper mario series and it has certain brought attention 
 to it. This new fighting system has brought back the super mario bros. to life once again but in 
 paper form. The new items, new friends and all the new abilities. I also enjoy switching between 
 mushroom kingdom's heroes, princess, and villian.
  Graphics aren't even a factor in this game and if you really have a taste in games, i'd consider 
 getting this game. Trust me, you won't be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasmflop
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 11, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  So the 3d view isnt as pretty as 2d, so there are a butt-load of text boxes to go through, so the 
 sound isnt that impressive. So what. This game is more than the sum of its parts, and while it 
 isnt perfect , it is just plain fun, pure and simple. The puzzles make clever use of the 2d-3d 
 dynamic , and the platforming is crips as you would expect from a 2d mario game. The writing is 
 wittly , and though longwinded , doesnt detract too much from the overall quality of the game. 
 Great game , highly recommended for Wii owners , and perfect to wet your mario whistle until galaxy 
 finally comes around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4n6science
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 11, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario has instantly become my favorite game for the wii. I love the look of the game, 
 its silly cartoon graphics are great! I love the control of the too. Using the wiimote sideways 
 like an nes controller has a real nice feel to it. The game play itself is pretty simple and easy, 
 but it has its challenging moments. Another great aspect of the game is the use of the multiple 
 recognized characters, and especially having Bowser on your side, which is a new twist in Mario 
 history. The ability to switch from 2-D to 3-D where you can find hidden objects, bad guys, and 
 paths, really makes the game exciting and more involved. I do miss the stage fighting RPG style 
 battles of the old paper mario games, but this way the game moves faster and more smoothly, and 
 you feel more inclined to attack bad guys knowing you'll be moving on instantly. All in all this 
 game is a great next step in the life line of paper mario games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: POkemonfreak101
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Paper Mario is just, wow! With the humorous and engaging storyline there's nothing to lose with 
 this game. Right from the start there is humor. The in between dimension , or flipside, is the 
 main point town in the game. It has a shop, fortune teller, and a lot of other features. It connects 
 the player with the different chapters one must under take in atempt to gather the 7 remaining 
 pure hearts (1 is given to you in the beginning) . The level designs are very unique and take advantage 
 of all pixls and characters different abilities. This game is kind of the opposite of other paper 
 mario games; it is a platforming game with RPG elements while the other 2 were RPGs with platforming 
 elements. I'd have to say Super Paper Mario's elements are triumphantof the other ones. I love 
 the idea of health points instead of getting hit and shrinking. And the score counter doubling 
 as an experience meter? Pure genius! I can't enough of this game! And the only reason my playtime 
 is low is because I got the game yesterday. Pick it up its worth the $50! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranman1990
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 11, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay : 10- As i first started playin SPM it took me right in . I played for a good hour and 
 a half :) ... the controls and overall playing of the game is great . Simple controls , nothing 
 outragous . This game is very chillin Graphics 9: The graphics are sweet as they show nice bright 
 colours and great visuals that keep your eyes glued to the screen at all times . When you flip 
 the level around you get a much more detailed view of what other things that werent there in the 
 2-d world. Sound: Great classical mario music . What else can i say about the sound . Not much 
 comes out of the wii-mote . All im listening to is the great tunes in the game .
  
  Tilt 10- If there were only two words i could say to you it would be this commmmmmmonnnnn . This 
 game is a MUST own on your growing Wii collection . It will be a good gem to add as well a overall 
 great performance on the game in general . Buy it , the hype alone made me want to get this so 
 i did i just bought the game 2hours ago before writing this review . Score: 9.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGamemannn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 11, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Amesome Graphics; New, less tedious game play style, memorable subplots and characters, great 
 funny scenes.
  
  The Bad: Too much backtracking in some areas, awkward camera in 3-D mode, confusing situations 
 with too many opitions. The Paper Mario franchise has been ultimately sucessful, mostly because 
 of its amazing graphics and game play. Now, a second sequel has arisen in the franchise: Super 
 Paper Mario, or, to most people, Paper Mario 3. It is basically about Mario trying to get the eight 
 Pure Hearts, while at the same time, fending off the minons of Count Bleck, a seemingly cruel dimension-manipulating 
 count that brainwashes people (which, by the way, OMG) and uses them to delay Mario's progress.
 
  
  
  Game Play: Now you just attack enemies instead of fading into the battle screen. This is a less 
 time-consuming tactic that improves the game, yet, at the same time, pulls it back. That is because 
 you have to have an ally to battle with, and with no allies, it feels limiting. However, the puzzles 
 in this game are hard enough for you to enjoy when you solved it. Plus, the only problem I have 
 in the area is that with so many options to choose from in a puzzle, you can get lost easily. But 
 that is only minor.
  
  Overall: 9/10 Graphics: As I aforementioned, the graphics in the Paper Mario franchise are marvelous. 
 Now minor voice acting is using, and even that is great in this area.
  
  Overall: 10/10
  
  Sound: Very Pleasant.
  
  Overall 9/10
  
  
  
  Overall: 9.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebeatlebug04
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 11, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  I think it's a little too easy combat wise. Maybe the old fashioned ways of Big and Little Mario. 
 It's pretty easy todie and you get a lot of HP points.
  
  The layout is awesome. The levels are amazing. The 2D to 3D I find seamless. Very, very cool. Unlike 
 GameSpot, I think the soundtrack is pretty cool. It's like a remix of old and new and I like it. 
 I also like the repeat of older levels of Mario but then you have the 3D aspect to dress it up!
 
  
  Overall this is definitely a step in the right direction for the next generation of Mario games. 
 Nintendo: bravo. Can't wait to see Super Mario Galaxy in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tassadar27
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 11, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is one of the best, if not the best wii game out for nintendo.
  
  I could not put the wiimote down after i started playing.
  
  The flipping from 2-D to 3-D is 
 what made this game, there are so many places where it comes in handy, i love it.
  
  Also this is not one of those easy games, it gets very challenging and takes some solving skills.
 
  
  Everythie i stopped playing, i wanted to get right back playing, i love this game.
  
  I reccomend this game to anyone wo likes to have plain out fun.
  
  The gameplay gets a 10 because 
 its so addictive graphics and sound get a 9 because they are still great. the only problem was 
 sometimes the 3D could get messed up.
  
  This is a definate keeper! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chipmunk884
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 16, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  Super Paper Mario overall is a great game, suited for people of all ages. However, there are a 
 few minor setbacks, but not enough for you not to get the game.
  
  Gameplay:
  The controls are very good. It is easy to move around and fight enemies. The control scheme works 
 well for the game. Occasionally, attacking or bringing up the short menu doesn't work, but it is 
 the players fault, not the game.
  
  Graphics:
  This game has great visuals. Everything is bright and colorful, and is very well designed. When 
 you flip to 3D, the graphics aren't as good, but that is really the only graphical issue.
  
  Sound:
  The music is quite good in this game. A lot is remixed versions of old Mario songs. 
 However, none of the music is something that you would remember the next day, so basically it is 
 easily forgettable. The noise that plays while you read text can be annoying to new players, but 
 is nothing new to players who played old Paper Mario's.
  
  Value:
  There is a lot to do in the game, even after you beat the main game. A total of 8 chapters, with 
 4 sub-chapters in each. Then, there is the pit of 100 trials, getting all the recipes and enemy 
 cards, collecting all the maps, and much more!
  
  Tilt:
  Overall, a great game than any Mario fan should get. Even if you aren't a fan of Mario and own 
 a Wii, you should definitely get this game. With very few setbacks, this game ranks at the top 
 of the list for Wii games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheik_n_Zelda
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  The legendary Shigeru Miyamoto's imagination is unparalleled. Not only did the infamous Link (Zelda) 
 spawn from his childhood, but apparently his house often had some plumbing problems, as that is 
 the only feasible explanation for Mario's conception. The official mascot of Nintendo can be seen 
 in over 100 games to date, which is one incredible accomplishment. His newest adventure marks his 
 debut on Wii in the likes of Super Paper Mario, originally a title slated for GameCube. That's 
 not what matters though, what does is how Mario's life on Wii has begun. What makes SPM a challenge 
 to dissect from a critic's perspective is that it can be treated as a hybrid of several Mario games 
 past. After over 20 hours of play, one could easily notice inspirations from The Thousand Year 
 Door, Super Mario Bros. 2, New Super Mario Bros., and a number of others. On a positive note, these 
 circumstances can allow Nintendo fans of any accord to appreciate just how far the chubby Italian 
 man has come. With this in mind, Super Paper Mario isn't necessarily a franchise-evolving entry, 
 but it can satisfy your hungry Mario mind.
  
  Oddly enough, the game's conflict is a direct result of the mind-numbing matrimony between the 
 King of Koopas and Mushroom Kingdom's pink royalty, can Bowser finally be happy? Of course not, 
 as the party is crashed at the hands of the newest villain in the Mario timeline, Count Bleck. 
 The whole thing is a setup to begin with, as Bleck is after what happens to be called a Chaos Heart. 
 As if it isn't obvious, the whole world is now in danger of being destroyed and it's up to the 
 usual suspects to put a stop to it. Your task is to retrieve all of eight Pure Hearts and prevent 
 a cataclysmic prophecy from ever being fulfilled. Oh well, at least this isn't another But our 
 princess is in another castle type of deal.
  
  Super Paper Mario plays out in very simplistic fashion, as the Wii remote is used sideways like 
 Excite Truck. Mario is controlled via the D-Pad, jumps with 2 and utilizes his Pixl buddies with 
 1. Pixls are, I guess you could say'mystic creatures' that you find throughout the game that enable 
 Mario to perform various skills, such as using his trusty hammer or running incredibly fast. In 
 order to progress, finding these assistants is 100% necessary. Thankfully the Pixls add nice variety 
 to what really could've been a dull experience. Mario isn't alone though, as at some point you'll 
 have the option to switch out with and use any of four characters, each with their own play style 
 to offer, such as Luigi's infamous SMB 2 sky high jump. It just would've been more enticing had 
 Mario not been in the limelight so much.
  
  Now this is a Wii game, so you might expect some revolutionary motion sensitive-driven gameplay 
 to set this title apart from all the rest. That's not the case unfortunately, which may or may 
 not disappoint you. The remote's pointer is used, but only to serve as a means for you to 'examine' 
 items, people or enemies onscreen. Nothing more, nothing less. SPM does have a gimmick though (don't 
 be thinking that's bad already now!) , and it happens to be Mario's switching between 2D and 3D 
 perspectives. With a press of A, the game's viewpoint shifts from the traditional sidescrolling 
 presentation to a very clever isometric angle. This system has two major purposes. One is concealing 
 potentially valuable items, and the other is showcasing intuitive puzzles that actually make sense. 
 There is one issue though, and it's that the camera while in 3D isn't particularly friendly, which 
 can make going on the offensive a bit more taxing than necessary.
  
  Mixed in with all these platforming pleasures is a routine that can considered a rough RPG mechanic. 
 Unlike TTYD, you battle in real-time, so you directly control offense and defense, and upon the 
 defeat of your enemies, points are added to your overall score which has you 'level up' upon reaching 
 a particular milestone. Such an accomplishment warrants the upgrade of either your HP by 5, or 
 your Attack (strength) by 1. It's nothing fancy, but it does nicely to offer players a pleasant 
 blend of two usually unrelated genres. Now when considering the overall scope of the adventure, 
 I would say the first half is solid as it stays fairly inventive. The second half, not so much. 
 There are eight worlds total, but the final four feel a little off in pace, which causes the story's 
 development to appear like it's dragging, or moving too quickly. It also doesn't help that during 
 the home stretch, the dreaded 'collect-o-fest' rears its ugly head, as you're required to run some 
 errands for people in order to advance. Some play out as meaningful, and others are just annoying 
 with their mandatory backtracking. Nevertheless, even with all of what I consider shortcomings 
 out in the open, this is still a quality Mario endeavor that should undoubtedly put smiles on a 
 lot of faces.
  
  One gripe that Wii owners have had is the lack of AAA titles in the graphical department. A few 
 games have showcased the console's horsepower rather nicely, but SPM just isn't one of them. It 
 looks like TTYD all over again with a bit more polish and aesthetic refinement that helps bring 
 the atmosphere to life. SPM's 2D side looks fine, with plenty of contrasting locales complimented 
 by truly bizarre NPCs and enemies, and a few nice special effect touches here and there. The 3D 
 element isn't too impressive, not by a long shot. Enemies and textures tend to look dilapidated, 
 especially when they're still stuck in the 2D world, and the backgrounds literally look 'pasted' 
 to the sides of the screen. The purpose of the dimension twisting mechanic is definitely realized, 
 but it just doesn't look that good.
  
  Moving along, most Mario fans tend to pay a lot of attention to his games with their ears, because 
 we've all become spoiled by the classic themes and sound effects that Nintendo has been able to 
 conjure up time and time again. Well I'm sorry fellow admirers, not this time. While the music 
 certainly doesn't detract, the problem is that it really doesn't add much. A few themes are brought 
 from previous generations and retooled to fit this new adventure, but all the others are just there 
 for filler. There's really no whistling to be done after this game, which is a downer. The sounds 
 don't suffer the same fate though, as all the classic wonder is back, with some in their infancy 
 allowing each world to be distinct. No one could ever hear enough of Mario jumping into a ? block.
 
  
  This leaves us at a point in which to take a gander at what SPM means to you in the long haul. 
 Let's make sure one fact is established, this is no TTYD or SM64 with 60+ hours of gameplay. Depending 
 on just how much you care to do, since there are a number of decent sidequests, you should run 
 in the 20 hour range, give or take. The story itself, which drills you with heavy text-driven conversations 
 (often quite humorous) , will definitely keep you busy and wanting more since SPM has a great plot 
 focus. All the rest is entirely up to you, so it's really your choice in regards to how long the 
 game lasts. Upon considering the final delivery, I would say that Super Paper Mario provides a 
 quality distraction for all of us waiting for the epic Mario Galaxy. The game's tale is meaningful, 
 which is obviously a positive, and all the gameplay elements inspired by the past make this a wonderful 
 experience for any Mario fan, new or seasoned. It may be similar in difficulty to NSMB, but that 
 doesn't mean the plumber's newest endeavor shouldn't find a nice home in your Wii library. Cheers 
 Mario fans, it won't be too long before we get our anxious hands on what is sure to be a cosmic 
 blowout. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1upMushroomX6
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 11, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  well Super paper mario is one of the greatest games ive ever played in my time. its very fun and 
 old school like with the platforming and stuff but some features are cool like you can play as 
 bowser and flip 3D. but the problem with turning 3D is how vast the plain feels it always seems 
 empty for some reason than it does in 2D. but if you like mario or just like new wii games this 
 would be a good game for you collection. but some of the characters are over used and underused 
 ex: peach- you only need her when you cant make the jump with mario, bowser- you only need him 
 when you underwater, or just cant jump on an ememy with mario. and then here is mario you always 
 need him out because he can flip 3D and as the Great Merlon said in the game, the one who could 
 flip would be the one to find the pillars. overall-9.5
  graphics-9
  gameplay- 10
  sound - 9
  value- 10
  tilt- 9
  
  this game is RATED E for every one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheJustin
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2007 12:53 am PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to getting this game so I could dust off The Wii and actually play 
 a decent game on it again. This game is fun, but it's from time to time it seemed somewhat boring. 
 The levels progress Like any other 2D mario game. With the exception of mario being a HACKER!!!!! 
 hahah just kidding. Sometimes the whole being able to turn the world 3D makes the game too easy 
 and takes some challenge out of the levels. Instead of having to time your jumps right for the 
 rolling enemies or the falling enemies or even the mutant flower things. You can now pretty much 
 80% of the time just flip the world to 3D and simple walk by them. While they do have you using 
 clever ways to beat the level with the whole 3D thing. It would be nice to have some kind of challenge 
 with it.
  
  The fighting is pretty much jump on them and hurt them. Which is old school Mario so that's fine. 
 With the nice selection of power ups to add that little spice. The bosses are ridiculously easy. 
 This game in general is VERY easy. I wish they would have kept older players in mind when making 
 the difficulty, but it seems they didn't.
  
  The sound is Midi and I honestly think Nintendo needs to change that and just go for better sound.
 
  
  Overall it's a nice change of pace to the utter crap Nintendo has been spewing out and I suggest 
 you pick this up if you have a Wii and like Mario. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slinboom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  assume that the house of Mario had a heavy hand in the development of this title. That being said 
 it continues to amaze me at how Nintendo realiy does focus on the actual gameplay ot it's titles. 
 There is genuine artform in the way a game is played and this game captures that aesthtic. It isn't 
 just a marketing mantra, or an exuse for lack of processor power, Nintendo games are actual games. 
 And fun ones at that. They each create new rules and ways in which to master the game. It gets 
 tiring to play the same game over and over again that has only been given a graphical upgrade or 
 a new date after the title. It is like how Monopoly makes a different version of their game with 
 a different theme and they except you to lap it up like sugar water. Its the same old game that 
 you've played for years but with different titles and colors. Boring. Nintendo games give you a 
 new exhileration. A new rush. Its like learning how to play chess for the first time and then feeling 
 the pleasure of learning how to own someone in it. Give me somehting new. New rules. New powerups. 
 New pitfalls. New strategy. That rant being said Super Paper Mario is a brilliant game. It is evolution 
 on a gameplay level not a graphical one. All praises to you Nintendo. Give me more. NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReeceBrown
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is very enjoyable for anybody. You think its kiddy i think is revolutional. I love paper 
 mario, i love Supe mario and them combined with a little mario and luigi humour in it and you got 
 yourself gold i tell yeah gold. anyway i have luaghed several times just listening to the prolouge. 
 Its got some good story telling, good characterisation. In this Luigi really wants to be the hero 
 for once (shiggy knows he should) and its characterised so well. Every Character is quirkey awsome 
 and very very well done. Its a platformer and i KINDA wish its was an RPG but i love the new twist 
 to the series.
  gameplay: awsome awsome there is only one problem..... sometimes the buttons arent obvious as you 
 want them to be.
  
  Graphics: the graphics are awsome... in 2-d once you flip to 3-d it looks a little bit less but 
 other than that perfect.
  
  sound: songs are very quirky and they set the mood just right, the sound effects are gerat but 
 the talking is a little bit high pitched but you rarely notice
  value: worth 68 dollars fo'real. I havent even cleared world one and its been 1 30 hours
  
 
  KIddy game on my Dreams 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamBenG
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 10, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  We are all familiar with the Paper Mario series. It is a nice twist to the normal mario games, 
 RPG qualities mixed with Mario.
  
  The gameplay in this game is supberb; it starts very simple, easy puzzles using an action platformer 
 style, but then the power to DIMENSION SHIFT! (by this i mean switching to 3D!) by doing this your 
 surroundings are the same, except by a different angle revealing more boxes, new passages, or just 
 a funny look at your surroundings. The puzzels are ingenius using the flip technique and your little 
 friends called 'Pixls' these little buddies give you various powers, they stretch from examining 
 new things to blowing up baddies! As you progress through the game you get new Pixls allowing more 
 puzzels so the game gets harder as you go through, at a perfect rate.
  
  The plot line is enthralling witha story book quality and a kiddiness that will make everyone happy, 
 from the younge to the old. There is alot of text but thats what makes the story so great! with 
 humorous dialouge and actions. the sound is everything you would expect from a mario game, no voice 
 acting and Mario still doesnt do anything past the average monosylable. The graphics dont look 
 amazing at first, but when u start switching you see just how imaginitive they are! they are papery 
 (duh) and storybooky (yet again) The game allows you to explore without pushing you to continue 
 and has amusing puzzels for un-needed, but helpful, things like recipies and items. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: livethemusiclif
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 10, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  I played through most of Paper Mario for N64 and loved it. This game seemed to have the same general 
 concept with more of a platformer twist rather than RPG, so I wasn't sure how it would turn out 
 in comparison. Honestly, while very similar the gameplay style is a bit different and both are 
 great. I was pleasantly surprised with how fun and easy to pick up and play this game is. I've 
 only played for an hour, but I love it! It is presented very well graphically, and of course while 
 the music isn't the most incredible thing I've ever heard, it's catchy and fun just like any other 
 mario title. I recommend this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario-Luige
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: I love the new platformer style. That is the reason I fell in love with mario series. 
 And if you aren't a platformer type then you'll love the puzzles and hidden items in the 3-D flip. 
 See a wall of bricks you can't pass? Turn to 3-D and walk around. You might see 1 warp pipe but 
 there is one behind it in 3-D. 10 out of 10.
  GRAPHICS: The graphics are amazing! Not to mention the whole 8-BIT pill pals and mega big forms. 
 The enemy designs are spectacular and each level has a ton of scenery and colors in a whole new 
 art style. 10 out of 10.
  SOUND: I love the sound though i'm not a huge fan of the whole sort of all retro it was kool. Voices 
 weren't used... well better yet hardly used. Though i still can't complain. 10 out of 10.
  VALUE: Worth the whole 50$ or... skrew it, it is just worth all the money. 10 out of 10.
  TILT: 
 I LOVE THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!! A definite 10 out of 10 on tilt. Overall it pretty much rounds up to 
 a perfect 10.
  NOTE: It is rare I ever give a game a perfect score so when I say this is great I really mean it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WisconsinBatman
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 10, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game, I was already a fan of the Paper Mario series. That aside, I'm very impressed 
 with this game.
  
  Even though the graphics are simplistic, they look phenomenal! The locations I've gone through 
 are beautiful, in a completely stylistic way. The design of the characters, even though they are 
 portrayed as paper, the anti-aliasing is top notch!
  
  The story is quirky as par for course. It's some off-the-wall humor, but what I love is the moments 
 that the fourth wall is broken, mainly used to explain why one character is teaching to use the 
 A button, and how the in game character would be completely clueless as to what the A button is.
 
  
  I started playing this game at 10 at night, and the next thing I knew, it was 4 in the morning. 
 Games that make me lose track of time are amazing to me, because I know I am truly drawn into the 
 game.
  
  This game is completely worth purchasing if you miss the days of side scrolling platformers, and 
 RPGs, as they have been beautifully integrated. I can remember playing the original Super Mario 
 Bros, and wondering why I should care about my score. The score feature has been introduced into 
 Super Paper Mario, as your onscreen tracking method of leveling up.
  
  The only real drawbacks are minor to say the least. The first is the camera sometimes gets funky 
 when switching to 3D mode. If a wall is at the screen, the camera gets stuck for a moment until 
 you move away from it. The only other drawback is the soundtrack, which seems mainly recycled from 
 The Thousand Year Door. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -1gamemaster1-
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  With 2-D platforming gameplay and 3-D adventures, this game particularly displays great gaming 
 that is unique to the game. The game has many new abilities. It also has a whole new stlye of fighting 
 off baddies. The game keeps you thinking the whole way through with its many challenging puzzles. 
 Overall, it is a game for all you hardcore gamers and can be great for everyone to play. Its flaws 
 are few, and the new stlye of gameplay is awesome. If you want a game were you can sit down, relax, 
 and have fun, then take a copy of Super Paper Mario. If you want a challenging game, well, then 
 pick up a copy of super paper mario! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zandri
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  Just got this game on the day it was released. I have only played it for a few hours so far, and 
 it has been awesome. Although the battle style is different than the other 2 Paper Mario games, 
 it still has a good storyline and nice graphics. Instead of getting into a whole different battle 
 scenario, you just walk around, and if you find an enemy, plainly attack him in any way you can. 
 Boss fights are also cool. If you are a fan of these types of games, this is a definite must-have. 
 I haven't played as Peach or Bowser yet, but I bet that will be really neat. I also agree with 
 khaloudakabooba on the fact that turning into a giant, 8-bit version of yourself and p0wning all 
 is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khaloudakabooba
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Paper Mario game in the series. The reason I say this is because of all the stuff 
 you can do like you can play as Mario, Peach, Luigi and Bowser. Also you get these great pixels 
 things to help you on your adventure like Boomer which can allow to throw bombs. Also another great 
 thing is the 2d, 3d thing because you can swich form 2d, 3d when every you want. Also another extremly 
 cool thing is the power that you can turn into your old NES form but like 20 times bigger and kill 
 are your enemies. The graphics are amazing and all the enemies are very well done you can't get 
 better form a super Mario game.
  
  The sound is great and never gets old or anyyoing.
  
  I recomend this too everyone who has a Nintendo Wii it's simply the best of it series and so 
 far one of the greatest Nintendo Wii games out there.
  
  And I think every gamer should get this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgmrules
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  As known in the paper mario series as a RPG game. This game combines the RPG element with the 2-D 
 platforming we know and love. The combination was a GREAT Success. The story of the game starts 
 when Mario and Luigi are in their house and they decide to go visit the princess but, as they are 
 about to leave toad comes and says peach has been kidnapped. So Mario and Luigi figure it was Bowser 
 up to his dirty tricks again. When they arrive at his castle he actually was going to kidnap her 
 so it wasn't him. Then they hear peach scream and the real villian comes out. Count Bleck. He then 
 sucks all of Bowser's minons and Bowser himself with Luigi ,but Mario was knock out with a gas 
 of somesort and he wasn't sucked in. After everyone was gone a pixil named tippy takes mario to 
 the town of flipside and the game begins.
  
  The gameplay is like new super mario bros and the original game. You can play as Mario, Peach, Bowser 
 and the forth character is Luigi. Thats good for the people who wanted to play as him in the old 
 games. The battles are like more of the jumping and hitting not like an RPG kind of battle. You 
 have more control with this battle system than the old one. They really streched the paper fact 
 alot in this game. Mario has the ability to flip the world on its side so you can see what couldn't 
 be seen in 2-D and you can acces new ledges to get to new places. You also have these pixils sorta 
 like little fairies. They give you new abilites that will be extremly helpful as you play the game. 
 There is one pixil that will always be by mario side Tippy. If you flip the remote to a pointer 
 a sorta flashlight appears on the screen. You can use it to identify enemies and make stairs, ledges 
 and doors appear. Also when you hit enemies you will get points and if you get enough you will 
 level up just like in a RPG and if you shake the controler you will do stylish move and get even 
 more points. You can hold items that can attack or heal your heart points.
  
  The graphics are really nice to the series. The graphics look beautiful in 2-D and 3-D. The 2-D 
 graphics are really a tribute to old mario games. The sound is great and the music is like any 
 mario game.
  
  To finish this review all wii owners sould owe it to themselves to get this game. It is a great 
 platformer and RPG game. You can treat it as a RPG, platformer or just as a adventure. This game 
 sould get a award for it great gameplay. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
