-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Super Swing Golf
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/sukattogolfpangya/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Using the Wii Remote as a golf club works rather well.
 Fantasy courses are imaginative and fun.
 Pangya Festa story mode will keep you busy for a long time.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Even when you think you've got it down, the putting can be maddening.
 It's $50 on the Wii, but the similar pc version is $0, free, gratis.
 Sometimes the game is just too darn quirky.
 You can't fast-forward or skip an opponent's turn.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 14, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.8
Critic Score: 7.1, 44 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 423 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Tecmo
Developer: Ntreev Soft
Genre: Golf Sim
Date: Dec 12, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Super Swing offers a quirky experience that may strike a chord with some players, but will probably 
 turn off anyone looking for a traditional round of golf. 

  The golfing game that is part of the Wii Sports disc that comes with every new Wii (at least in 
 North America) isn't a particularly good representation of the sport, and it only has nine holes. 
 But it is kind of fun in a "tech-demo" sort of way, and if nothing else, it leaves you craving 
 a more fleshed-out golf game. And now, just weeks after the system's launch, that game has arrived 
 in the form of Super Swing Golf, an entertaining and extremely quirky, albeit sometimes frustrating, 
 golf game from Tecmo.  

          In case you were wondering, PangYa means 'bang!' in Korean.     

  Super Swing Golf 
 is based on the popular (and free) online PC golf game known as Albatross 18 in North America and 
 PangYa to most of the rest of the world. The two games are identical in many ways, though Super 
 Swing is a strictly offline affair. There are several different modes of play, including stroke 
 and match play tournaments, as well as a training area where you can learn and practice the basics. 
 Up to four people can share one controller and play against each other in basic stroke or match 
 play. That's all well and good, but the best multiplayer game is called balloon bash. This plays 
 like any other round of golf, except for the giant balloons in the air and strewn about the ground. 
 Your goal is to not only finish the hole in the fewest amount of strokes, but to also pop as many 
 balloons as you can along the way. Because you can mess with your opponent by activating "party 
 goods" such as a graffiti crayon that can write on the screen or a "wind god" fan that creates 
 wind when you move the remote up and down, each person will need his or her own controller to play. 
 Balloon bash is a lot of fun, but it's a shame that you can't play against the CPU or eschew the 
 party goods so you could play against other human players and share one controller.  

  Most of your time will be spent playing Pangya Festa, which is the game's single-player story mode. 
 Many years ago, Pangya Island fell victim to an evil force field that surrounded the island and 
 began draining all of nature's energy away. The island's residents came up with a plan to rid themselves 
 of this menace by concentrating the spirit of all living things into a ball called the Mystical 
 Phoenix Ball and then shooting it into a hole in the force field using a stick called the Air Lance. 
 A nameless warrior from another world used the stick to hit the ball into the hole, and now, many 
 years later, the island commemorates the historic event with a symbolic festival where they play 
 the game of Pangya, also known as golf. You'll start the game as a young boy named Scout, who was 
 invited to the island and given the opportunity to win the Pangya championship. Along with the 
 help of your caddie, a feisty girl named Pipin (who can freely travel between time and space, in 
 case you were wondering) , you'll take on an eclectic cast of characters such as Max, a tennis star 
 who wants to become a fighter pilot, and Kooh, a little girl who also happens to be the captain 
 of a pirate ship. Short cutscenes feature the golfers and their caddies engaging in some nonsensical 
 banter before and after each round. The story's obviously not meant to be taken seriously, and 
 it works on some levels, but sometimes it's a little too bizarre for its own good.  

  Super Swing can be played in one of two ways: by swinging the Wii Remote like a golf club, or by 
 simply hitting the ball with timed button presses. To swing the club using the remote as a club, 
 you stand as you would if you were preparing to address the ball in real golf. You start your swing 
 by moving the remote back, and when you've reached the desired level of power, which is displayed 
 on a meter at the bottom of the screen, you hold the A button and swing forward. You'll want to 
 keep the remote straight as you swing through where the ball would be, because having the remote 
 turned in or out has the same effect as having your club face open or closed in real golf -- you'll 
 slice or hook the ball. You do need to keep your head up a bit to see when you've achieved full 
 power, which can sometimes cause you to not hit the ball quite straight; but for the most part, 
 using the remote as a golf club works surprisingly well and you really feel as if you're hitting 
 a ball. Putting is performed in the same manner as a regular swing, which doesn't quite replicate 
 a real putting stroke, but it works.  

          It takes hours to get a handle on putting, and even then it can still be frustrating.  
    

  Unfortunately, there are several things that will likely cause you to prefer to swing using the 
 remote's buttons, rather than using the motion-sensing controls all of the time. Swinging the remote 
 is plenty accurate when playing against friends, but it's just not precise enough when taking on 
 some of the more challenging CPU-controlled golfers. When you've got 45 minutes invested in a round, 
 you don't want to lose because the game registered your shot at 15.9 yards when you needed 16.0 
 for the putt to drop. Despite its many similarities to the fast-paced Hot Shots Golf series, Super 
 Swing is extremely slow paced. You can't fast-forward through your opponents' turn, much less skip 
 the entire thing, which makes for some very long matches. Moving the camera, adjusting your aim, 
 and just getting to the point where you're ready to hit the ball is cumbersome because you've got 
 to move the pointer around onscreen, and hold odd button combinations. If you think you've got 
 your shot lined up and then change your mind just before starting your swing, you've got to stand 
 up and go through the whole process again. To be fair, it's not much simpler when you're using 
 the buttons to control your swing, since you've still got to point to do everything else -- but at 
 least you're not constantly standing, crouching, swinging, and then standing while your opponent 
 swings, for hours on end.     

  The game features a number of fantasy courses that are well designed and reminiscent of those found 
 in Hot Shots Golf. Day or night, snow or desert, mountains or lagoons -- there's plenty of variety 
 to be found to the courses. Some of them are quite difficult by design, but even the easier courses 
 provide ample opportunities for you to challenge yourself with creative shot making. There are 
 often tempting shortcuts surrounded by hazards, and there are also many objects that you can ricochet 
 the ball off of to get to the green faster. For example, you might choose to hit the side of a 
 lighthouse to get the ball to bounce toward the pin at an angle that would otherwise be impossible, 
 or you might want to hit the sloping base of a volcano to give your ball some extra roll. Super 
 Swing rewards great shots, but it's very punishing when you're anything less than near-perfect. 
 The ball tends to roll extremely fast, whether it's on ice, the fairway, the rough, or the green, 
 so it's easy to zoom right past your intended landing area. You also never know exactly how far 
 a ball will travel. Sometimes the ball will travel one distance, and the next time it will go 10 
 yards further when hit the same way with similar course conditions. This presents a big problem 
 when so many landing areas are surrounded by out-of-bounds markers, on the edges of cliffs, or 
 near water.  

          If kids can save the world and control giant robots, there's no reason they can't golf. 
     

  And then there's the game's putting, which can be maddening because you'll need to sink nearly 
 every putt on the first try to beat the often-cheap CPU, which can go from shooting a 10 on one 
 hole to chipping in from off the green on the next two. Like in most other golf games, a grid is 
 placed over the green, but the traditional dots that move along the grid to show its slope are 
 replaced with stationary dots that are inside the grid's squares. The dot's location is meant to 
 tell you whether the green slopes to the left or right, and if it's uphill or downhill to the cup. 
 But it's tough to see all of the dots on the green for long putts because of the game's low resolution. 
 It takes a while to learn exactly how you need to adjust your putt based on the slope, but while 
 you may eventually become proficient, you'll still miss some easy putts. You're constantly being 
 told that putts that look 12 to 15 feet away are closer to 30 feet, because the game's sense of 
 scale is way off. If the distances the game gives you were accurate, your character (a scrawny 
 young boy) would be about 10 feet tall. To top things off, because your power meter is constantly 
 changing size based on the length of your putts, it's hard to figure out how much power you need 
 to add to a putt that's going uphill, or how much to take off of a downhill putt. The game's pretty 
 unforgiving when it comes to what putts will and won't go in, so you're in for a lot of heartbreak 
 before you come to grips with the putting system.  

  At this point it may sound like Super Swing is a bad game, but it's really more frustrating than 
 it is bad, and you'll probably have fun if you're not the type that gets frustrated easily. The 
 courses are creative, and the characters, while goofy, are interesting. Where else will you encounter 
 a caddy named Dolfini (yep, she's a dolphin) that is so convinced that she'll one day be able to 
 fly that she carries a parasol around to assist her for landing? It takes a long time to unlock 
 new golfers, but in the meantime you can customize your existing golfer in a number of ways. There 
 are lots of wacky costumes, new clubs, balls, accessories, and even hand-drawn artwork from the 
 game's development that can all be purchased with pang, the in-game currency that you earn with 
 good shots and by winning tournaments.  

          Every shot looks better when it has fireworks.     

  As you may have guessed by now, 
 Super Swing's visuals have more in common with Hot Shots than they do with Tiger Woods. The character 
 designs are certainly creative and have an anime-style look to them that fits the game's theme 
 nicely. The courses are bright and colorful and are adorned with lots of nice little touches such 
 as windmills, lighthouses, sailboats, volcanoes, snow, and even battleships. While there's nothing 
 here that would seemingly push the Wii to its limits, the frame rate isn't always smooth, particularly 
 when there are effects around the ball, or when the camera is moving. The game's presentation also 
 suffers because of the drab, poorly designed (and poorly translated) menus that worked fine when 
 they were on the PC, but are much less intuitive on the Wii. Other than the catchy music that plays 
 during a round and in the menus, there's not much to the game's audio. Besides your caddy yelling 
 "PangYa!" when you hit a perfect shot, there's no speech, which is a shame since it would have 
 helped flesh out the characters' personalities.  

  There's a lot to like about Super Swing Golf. The courses are great, balloon pop is lots of fun, 
 and the Pangya Festa story mode will keep you busy for weeks. While it's not ideal when playing 
 against the computer, swinging the Wii Remote like a golf club works well, especially when playing 
 with friends. Unfortunately, there are numerous issues that make the game significantly less enjoyable 
 than it could have been. The gameplay is inconsistent, and quite often, frustrating; many people 
 who have played the game on the PC will miss being able to play online; and in some cases, the 
 game can be a little too quirky for its own good. It's likely to be the only golf game headed to 
 the Wii for some time, and it's certainly better than Wii Sports Golf, so if you're really looking 
 to hit the links on the Wii, this is your best bet.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (36 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MOBucky
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  I was looking for something between the 9 available holes on Wii Sports and the price tag of Tiger 
 Woods and I found Super Swing used at my local store. It's right between the two, although I wouldn't 
 pay full price for it unless you're looking for a silly-type game. The courses are challenging 
 and varied and the swing system, while not perfect, is pretty good. Sometimes I have to move my 
 remote around above my head to get the desired swing strength, but once I push A I can do a normal 
 swing and expect the game to respond.
  There are a bunch of extra goofy things here -- you improve your power and control by purchasing 
 clothing with earned "pang" and you can purchase balls that do weird things, so if you're looking 
 for a real golf game, don't go here. But if you're looking for a relaxing golf game that will test 
 your swing you can play this without worrying about the weird stuff.
  The thing I detest about this game is the character attitudes. I'm trying to teach my kid about 
 playing for fun, not worrying about win/loss, etc. These characters pout when they get a bogey 
 and fall on the ground if they lose a match. Then they gloat on a win and preen on a par. I hate 
 the characters I've found so far (admittedly not many) .
  To sum it up: some nice courses with a middle of the road golf game. Not pro, but better than Wii 
 Sports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JFannn
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  When I first heard that Super Swing Golf (formally known as Pangya Golf) was headed to Wii, we 
 were both excited and a little skeptical as to how the game would present itself on the Nintendo 
 platform. For starters, a golf game requires a ton of fine-tuning to the control, and time is something 
 that launch games have working against them. In addition, Super Swing Golf got a huge bump in the 
 gaming community for its support of online play and course-building modes back on PC. Players could 
 jump on the net, play friend, and share created courses in what ended up being a virtually everlasting 
 arcade golf experience. On Wii, players won't be getting any build-a-course or online functionality, 
 as it seems Nintendo is still working out the kinks for its online plan. Bust despite the loss 
 of net support, does Super Swing Golf still shape up to be an entertaining alternative to Wii Sports? 
 It really seems to depend on who you ask. There are - quite frankly - a few things the game does 
 right, and a few things it does very wrong.
  
  
  Since Super Swing Golf lands on the extreme edge of the golf spectrum (right up there with Hot 
 Shots Golf and Mario Golf) , there's a certain "understanding" that has to be made between the player 
 and game. For starters, you're going to see a floating paper bag of chibi-goodness chasing your 
 ball all around the fairway: That's normal, and he's actually your caddie. Your player's head is 
 going to be roughly 1/3 the size of the rest of his/her body. Again, that's normal. Finally, when 
 you pull off a great shot or sink that winning putt, coins are going to start popping out of random 
 places. Again, to you we say, that's normal. Super Swing Golf is all about getting the lighthearted, 
 arcade fun of like-minded golf designs, and throwing in a bit more customization and style into 
 the mix. You'll be nailing shots between floating islands, over levitating pyramids, or across 
 snow-covered plains, and you'll either love it or hate it.
  
  
  And though the style itself may be enough to either bring players in or shove them away, the real 
 test is going to come with control. The initial shock to most players - the game doesn't play like 
 Wii Sports Golf, and whether you like it or not may depend almost entirely on the swing mechanic. 
 In games like Wii Sports Golf you'll point the controller at the ground, address the virtual ball, 
 take a few practice swings, and then whack the tiny sphere with a fluid, realistic stroke. In Super 
 Swing the game controls a bit differently, but it's also more precise when dealing with the finer 
 points of a golf swing. You'll stand up to address the ball, pull your arms up for the backswing, 
 and then hold. As you ready your backswing you'll actually see the distance marker (that looks 
 like it was taken almost directly from Hot Shots Golf or Mario Golf) rise up the bar. Depending 
 on how you move your backswing (higher or lower) , you can actually manipulate the intended distance 
 for as long as you want pre-swing. If, for example, you're going for a 112 yd. nine iron shot, 
 you can fine-tune that slider-bar until you're sitting right at 112 yards. Perfect shot, right?
 
  
  
  Wrong. Here's where Super Swing sacrifices the fluidity of a golf swing for a more accurate read-out 
 of your motion and follow-through. When ready you'll hold the A button, which locks the intended 
 distance into place, and then make your swing. Based on the speed, angle, and follow-through of 
 your shot the game will provide a hook or slice on the ball, and hit it a distance that's either 
 shorter or farther than your intended point if you in fact swung too soft or strong. As of right 
 now the line has been officially drawn. You'll either hate the control and be wishing you had your 
 cash back, or you'll defend Super Swing to the death. It's really just a matter of taste.
  
  
  When dealing with the swing mechanic specifically though, there are a few things that need 
 to be clarified. While the control works well during a natural swing, there is definitely a way 
 to cheat. Since the swing is really measured by the angle of the remote and the speed from point 
 A to point B, you can twist your wrist to simulate a backswing, hold the A button to begin your 
 swing, and then flick your wrist very quickly back to its starting position. After a few tries 
 most people will be able to successfully hit a "Pangya" super-shot every time, as the game believes 
 you just achieved a perfectly straight golf swing (and maybe you're just a very tiny man with an 
 arm-reach of only a few inches, right) . If you're going to play Super Swing Golf, just know some 
 jackass can sit down next to you, act "too cool" to play the game the right way, and ace you ever 
 shot. It's weak, it's a shame, but we're seeing it more and more with Wii games. Either you play 
 by the rules or you start breaking the game. 
  
  
  Stepping away from the swing control (yes it's the most important aspect of the game, but there's 
 more to tell) , Super Swing has a ton of aspects of presentation that need to be addressed. First 
 of all, the game makes a solid use of the Wii pointer, as all the menus, on-screen actions, and 
 player customization is done via the IR sensor. Using the Wii-mote to navigate the playfield can 
 take a bit of practice, but is ultimately a very smooth experience, as players can hold the B trigger 
 and literally stab in or pull back to zoom over the fairway in a flyby, lift the remote up slightly 
 to raise the camera into the sky, or push down to get lower to the ground. In addition, actions 
 like setting the spin on the ball or deciding to do a Super Swing shot is also done with the IR 
 pointer, clicking on-screen icons. 
  
  
  Where the game acts a bit wonky, however, is in the button layout. Since the entire game is played 
 with only the Wii-mote, it actually makes heavy use of the 1 and 2 buttons in addition to the - 
 key (used as a back button) and +. Along those same lines, actually changing options on-screen 
 will often be done with a button rather than the pointer, so while clicking into ball spin control 
 is done with the pointer, actually determining how the ball spins is done with the d-pad. Some 
 of the buttons are hard to reach and unnatural, and a times the game isn't as intuitive as it could 
 be. That being said, those same people wouldn't give back the controller after a few minutes of 
 control coaching either.
  
  
  Unfortunately, the audio/visual presentation isn't too hot for Super Swing Golf, and it'll end 
 up being a serious downside to the game for some players. No 480p or 16:9 support has been included, 
 so you'll be playing a game that has the on-screen presence of a mid-gen GameCube game rather than 
 a true next-gen experience. On top of that, the overall style doesn't have the sleek look that 
 something like Wii Sports Golf has, and when looking at the games side-by-side it's almost a joke 
 that Wii Golf (only a part of a free pack-in) absolutely demolishes the Super Swing presentation. 
 The greens look freshly cut, the trees and water have true life to them, and the world looks truly 
 living in a game like Wii Sports Gof. Super Swing may have solid control, but it drops the ball 
 visually. As far as the audio goes, there isn't a ton to go from aside from few elevator muic tracks 
 (though they do grow on you in an odd way) and some very limited VO. 
  
  
  Super Swing Golf may be one of the hardest games to size up on Wii thus far. It's a mix of less-than-desirable 
 visuals, gameplay that is either love-it or hate-it, and the simple fact that this game is designed 
 for online and isn't getting it at launch. There's a ton of replay value if you decide it's something 
 you're into, with a sizeable roster of players (each with a ton of different outfits and accessories 
 to purchase as you progress in the game) , about a dozen or so different 18 hole courses, and three 
 multiplayer modes (two of which can have up to four players with a single remote) . If you're fan 
 of the gameplay, Super Swing has a strong amount of lasting appeal, and like Wii Sports Golf you 
 won't have to drop extra cash on more remotes and nunchuks to enjoy a few rounds of golf with friends 
 or family. That being said, the root of Super Swing's gameplay is absolutely love it or hate it. 
 We can't stress enough how much personal preference goes into a game like Super Swing. Scores from 
 people around our office put it anywhere from a 5.0 to the lower 8.0 range, spanning nearly every 
 number in-between. Put some thought into whether or not you'll be into the style, or "try before 
 you buy" if possible.
  
  
  Reviewed by James Fanciullo for AceGamez. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wadley101
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Fist off turn the music off in game, it is so annoying. Graphics average. I know the wii is not 
 gfx powerhouse but wii sports golf is neat and sharp looking. This seems fuzzy and slow in places.
 
  
  The controls are the biggest issue. Selecting target area etc justs seems slightly awkward to me. 
 And there is no quick exit of the computer playing. You have to sit thro they shots, repeated shots 
 when they muck up.
  
  But for me the biggest negative is the control of the shots. Why change a swing mechanism that works 
 so well in wii sports golf. Nintendo please bring out a full golf game or tell a third party developer 
 how to do a decent swing mechanism. What a disappointment.
  
  wadley101 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOULCALIBUR33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  THE BEST GOLF GAME I ever played. IS TRUE! Especially if you likes MANGA 's Style... but at the 
 same time is a 'serious' game. This game have 'substance'. I think that only japanese could find 
 finally the best compromice to produce a game with cute 'japan' s style caracters and at the tecnical 
 gameplay. At least, I played other type of golf' s game (serious) and was really boring. I think 
 that Pangya Golf (or super swing golf) is really cute and good game to play. I really love this. 
 And Im happy to have buy it. Definitely.
  
  I always play this game especially now in summer.. I will always remember this summer 2007 for 
 this funny and good game.
  
  If you likes sport games I raccomanded this game. If you don't like golf, try this... maybe this 
 game will change your taste about sport games! Who knows?
  
  
  
  ^_^'
  
  PANGYA!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Ehi, but what mean 'pangya'? I forget! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sa_mccormick
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 24, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  The bottom line is that Pangya Golf is an enjoyable game to play, although I found issue with the 
 controls. I found it more rewarding playing using the button control method rather than swinging 
 the remote: in real golf you should keep your eye on the ball, not in front of you at a screen, 
 because of this, the swinging method makes getting 100% power uncomfortable and feels unnatural. 
 The button, moving-bar controls are easy and are pretty similar to the controls in Everybodys 
 Golf on PS2. I cant see why anybody would use the swing method when you can get a much better 
 score using the buttons?!?
  
  Although there is a lot of unlock in this game, I really wish that games would start using online 
 score tables, even if they do not provide online game play, as this would give you something to 
 keep playing for and an idea of how good you really are!
  
  The story line is so daft to the point of being hilarious, but then you don't usually buy a golf 
 game for its story! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostadv
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 26, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  Sound - Although the characters don't talk at all, the music is very well done. All the tunes go 
 with the environments the player is in, and there are a few that are actually quite catchy.
  Controls (for the most part) - Once you get a handle on how things work, it isn't too hard to start 
 getting Pangya's. I'll admit the putting could probably use a little work (the dot mapping with 
 the slopes of the green are tricky sometimes) but it works.
  Presentation - Everything is very clean and nice to look at in the menus, and none of which look 
 like they're something from a a badly designed website or anything.
  Replay Value - There's a lot to do in this game, even if you only play single player (which is 
 what I do most of the time.) There's Pangya Festa where you play and unlock every character, going 
 through different stories and getting to know them better, and there's also Match Play and Stroke 
 Play. In Match Play you play against a computer opponent, while in Stroke Play you play through 
 18 holes on a course against all other opponents to see who can go through the course with the 
 least amount of hits.
  
  Cons:
  Graphics - While they're not too bad, the characters have this blocky look to them, and the environments 
 while most of the time look nice can sometimes look like they're from the N64 days (specifically 
 some of the trees.)
  Slowdown - There's some serious slowdown in this game when there's too much going on. Most of the 
 time it's playable, but other times you sit there waiting for the game to ease up on itself so 
 you can actually start swinging.
  Difficulty - The AI likes to constantly switch. In that I mean that if you're playing against an 
 opponent you could be whipping his/her butt for a couple of holes, but then out of nowhere they'll 
 start making birdies and eagles like they're the Gods of Golf or something. There's no ramp of 
 difficulty, it's more like spikes.
  Load Times - Click on a menu, load... click on another, load... look at your character, load... 
 Way too many load screens. None of them are too long, but they're frequent. Overall: If you're 
 a fan of something like Mario Golf, or if you've never played one simply because they're a bit 
 on the boring side with just doing button presses, pick this game up. I never liked Golf games 
 before this one as it wasn't really immersive or all that challenging. Super Swing Golf isn't perfect, 
 but it's a lot more interesting and fun to play than most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaktiboi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 20, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best overall for the Wii even more than 6 months after retail launch. It's 
 the best overall golf game I've ever played on any console, and I've tried most of them. It has 
 the pacing and cute factor of Hotshots but the courses themselves are far more challenging. Best 
 of all, the game responds *perfectly* to a good golf swing and really emulates the ill effects 
 of bad form and a bad swing. If you know how to do a solid, dependable swing in real life golf, 
 you will *love* this game. If you don't know how to lock your left elbow, set up properly, pivot 
 on your leading hip, etc., you will curse this game up down and sideways and complain that the 
 controls are terrible .
  
  Likewise for putting. Putting in this game is extremely simple and predictable if you understand 
 how to move your arms in a putt and if you understand the Albatross 18 (Superswing) style of green 
 layout markings. If you've played the online multiplayer version of this game at all (Albatross 
 18) then you will completely ace the putts in this game.
  
  If you are a fan of Albatross 18 *and* you know how to make a good, dependable golf swing, do yourself 
 a favor and buy this game. If you're a Tiger Woods fan, by contrast and you can't swing a real 
 golf club to save your life, then you'll likely hate this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendo_fan135
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 8, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for a sim golf game or a realistic golf game, you're looking in the wrong place. 
 Maybe Tiger Woods might be a better choice. Super Swing Golf is definitely more geared towards 
 the younger audience or for party gamers as this game's multi player supports up to four players 
 on one wiimote. Gameplay is either going to be annoying or fun to play as the sensing of the wiimote 
 can be strange at times. On several occasions I wound up for a swing just like I would when I play 
 a real golf match only to have the power meter on screen drop back down half way just when it reached 
 the maximum. Putting is the same story. Although there are no sensing problems here, there is definitely 
 some confusing ways to display the information. From how much slope there is on the green to how 
 much power is needed to sink it, they are all displayed in a way that will anger people or make 
 it less confusing when compared to other golf games out there.
  
  The graphics can be described in one word. Cartoony. Anime fans rejoice as this game has everything 
 from funny character personalities to the almost traditional story of most anime and manga stories 
 that's about saving the world with magical powers. In game graphics are quite impressive (although 
 obviously not photo realistic) as you see fireworks from bomb golf balls to long ocean landscapes.
 
  
  Sound... well, there really isn't much to talk about. The characters have no voiceovers so mainly 
 all the sounds are coming from the background and the constant sound of a golf club ramming against 
 a golf ball.
  
  Overall, this game is worth atleast a rental. Especially if you're a fan of mario golf or an anime 
 fan that is also a fan of golf as this game combines them both perfectly. And if you can ignore 
 or get used to the lack of sound, sometimes clunky controls, and sometimes unsteady frame rate 
 this game is one of the best Wii games around so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSamus77
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 5, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  well me and my bro bought this game three weeks ago opened it up and were clueless for three days 
 we split sliced and losed every time we tryed story mode then we had a friend who had never played 
 come over and he go near perfect shots every time and we finaly lerned how to play that whole story 
 is to show that it takes a bit to get use to but after you get it, its fun as all get out. the 
 story mode can get kinda weird at times ranging from your oponet asking why you are in a bathing 
 suit to them calling you gramps. but that makes it funny. you can change the look of the people 
 and even you catties. change the club and balls you use and other things. I know that you can get 
 some thing simeler on the computer but if you have a wii and you like golf this is a mush have.
 
  
  and in closeing the mutiel player is good but not untill you have some stuff like people and clubs 
 un till then it just weird all playing the same exact people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 25, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Up until the Wii came out, I hated golf games. In fact, I hated pretty much every type of sports 
 game. I'd never touch them. But Wii Sports changed my preception of sports games, and to this day 
 I'm fiercely addicted to that game, so I decided to give Super Swing Golf a try as well. I quickly 
 found that while the swing mechanic seemed a little more realistic than Wii Sport's, the game overall 
 is much more fantasy-oriented, which is a good thing for me (other than the stupid backstory, which 
 is really only referenced in the manual anyway) . All of the characters are cute and chibi, and 
 since it's a Temco game, there are some hot girls in it too. The characters are animated fairly 
 well, and are engaging enough during the voiceover-free cutscenes. Sometimes they look kind of 
 stiff, but that is forgiveable because the character models as a whole are great. There are also 
 a few hilariously animated caddies accompanying you on your golfing journey, such as the girl who 
 looks like she is going to explode with anxiety every time you're about to take a swing and the 
 animated paper bag that flies around the golf course after your balls. The music in the game is 
 always perky and cheerful, and the putting music fits the suspenseful putting mechanics well. As 
 mentioned before, it's too bad that there's no voiceovers in the game. The thing that sets SSG 
 apart from, say, Hot Shots is its control mechanics. Players can swing the wiimote like a golf 
 club to propel their balls by pulling the wiimote back, then pressing and holding the A button 
 (or B button for practice shots) , and finally, swinging forward, remembering to follow through. 
 The tricky thing about golfing in SSG is that you have to swing the wiimote with just the right 
 amount of force if you want to ball to go straight. Like Wii Sports golf, the ball will curve if 
 you hit it too hard, but it will also curve if you hit it too softly. Unlike Wii Sports, the swinging 
 mechanic seems to be a little bit off. Sometimes it registers hard swings as barely anything, and 
 seemingly soft swings as really hard. One time, I swung the Wii remote as hard as I could, with 
 my Power Shot upgrade on, and the ball went about 80 yards. On the next hole, i swung very softly 
 and the ball flew about 230 yards. This happens pretty rarely, or at least not enough to hamper 
 my enjoyment, though. SSG has great value, too. If you want to buy every item for every character 
 like I do, you will be hitting the links for a long time to come. There are also some pretty fun 
 multiplayer games, but if your friends are really impatient or just suck at golf games, good luck 
 getting them to play more than a few rounds. It's still pretty fun though, and multiplayer items 
 give the game a party game-esque feel. Overall, SSG is a good value for the money, and an excellent 
 choice for Wii golfing fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimped
Rating: 6.4
Date: Feb 19, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  This isnt a bad game. Its just not a good one. Its anima style and quirky characters are likeable 
 but the lack of depth and slow progression may put many off this game. Early in the game I found 
 myself, many times actually, with a driver in my hand on a par 3 only to just barely make the green. 
 It took quite a while to get any where with the character I started with and customize his appearance. 
 But soon enough I found my self enjoying this game. Its not a bad game, just not a good one. If 
 you liked hot shots youll love this one. If you love tiger woods then youll probably hate this 
 game. I strongly suggest that you rent it 1st then decide for your self if its worth the money 
 or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Mario-Fan
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 15, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw some screens and trailers for this game, I was pretty excited. A fantasy golf 
 game coming to the Wii. Now that I've finally been able to play this game for a while, I've got 
 to say that I'm a little disappointed. The remote censored controls are very sensitive, making 
 it easy to swing the ball really far to the left or right, and get an out of bounds. Thankfully, 
 they also have an option to use button controls for the swings, but even these take practice to 
 use. The graphics were especially disappointing. In the trailers, I saw vibrant courses with environmental 
 effects. In the actual game, I saw visuals that look worse than Mario Golf for the GameCube. I 
 know the Wii can do better than this. The sounds were somewhat catchy, but don't have much flavor. 
 Where this game shines, though, is in its depth. There are 8 golfers and 8 caddies in which you 
 can earn pang with and customize in your virtual room. So if you can last long enough to tolerate 
 the gameplay, you could probably pull in a good 30 hours just trying to buy this stuff up in the 
 shop. I would advise renting this first to see if it fits your tastes before buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobylim
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 12, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  Seriously, this game really have let me down. For exemple, i prefered the wii sport golf then this 
 one!! i mean, behind the game package it says: Real swing! LET EM LAUGH!! oh my, a real swing? 
 the way the swing works is ugly, i mean, you must get your hands up, try to find the good spot 
 press A THEN make your semi swing down. then PANGYA 340 yards! haha ugly ugly ugly. i wonder how 
 could a free computer game can become a game that people would pay? well... I still don't get it, 
 BUT i know you should not buy. RENT IT FIRST, then you will be disguted. Ok the real review starts 
 here. Graphics: medium i'd say, nothing really great, but still, it's ok. Gameplay: sucks. no real 
 swing, bad calibration. Sound: Music is ok, general sounds are pretty good.
  Value: it just doesn't worth anything. play wii sport golf instead.
  well, what i tough would 
 be cool, is that you can unlock players and equipment... I played a multiplaer game, it took 1h30 
 at least, and gave us a number of money i dont remember how much. for exemple 300. but to buy i 
 new shirt, it cost like 4000. your like omfg, I will not spend 7h of my life only for a damn shirt, 
 it's inhuman!!!
  whatever, rent it, and be sad to see how much this game could have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 10, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Super Swing Golf is the sort of game that you love to hate. The game is beautiful, the music it 
 pleasant, and there's a ton of value and content packed into this imaginative round of golf or 
 pangya. The controls are blast of fun also.
  
  It's not your typical golf game. Instead it's more or less a head-to-head competition between you 
 and another CPU player. You battle through a set number of rounds in a sort of win/lose scenario 
 by trying to get to the hole first. All the holes are treated independently of one another so there's 
 no cumulative score like you would have in say a golf tournament. At the end of a game the one 
 with the most round wins will win the overall match.
  
  You can customize your character as far as their clothing, hair color and so on. There's sort of 
 a pre-set boy or girl though, but there's a lot of customizing that is really fun to play with. 
 You can also unlock other characters that you meet in the game. You buy all this stuff using pangya 
 that you earn from playing the game.
  
  There's some great multiplayer games which can be fun if you've got some friends who want to play.
 
  
  Unfortunately what kills this game is the difficulty. The computer is just too unforgiving and 
 spot on. Their putting is what will kill you most of all. It's unfortunate because it gets in the 
 way of you enjoying the actual game because your stuck on the second match of pangya fest or whatever 
 indefinitely. I'm the type of gamer where as long as things are moving forward, even if at a slow 
 pace, then I am content. I cannot tolerate a game that insists on making you re-do the same thing 
 over and over only to come up with the same result. There's absolutely no progression of difficulty 
 in this game. The difficulty must be the same throughout the entire game but I obviously will never 
 find out because its extended my patience to the point that I don't even want to put it in my system.
 
  
  It's unfortunate cause I feel like there's a great game hidden on that disc somewhere... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alcheng
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 8, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  I'm glad that a golf game like this was developed exclusively for the Wii. Frankly, I had enough 
 of the button controls where timing is everywhere from setting the power of shots and the direction 
 of the swing such as in Mario Golf for the GCN. Instead, I like to try something new, and the Wii 
 does just that. It takes some practice to get used to the swing controls and hit a perfect Pangya 
 shot. Though putting on the green seems to be a little difficult, but I find it pretty new since 
 it feels like one putting without any visual aids. All is based on one's judgment. I also find 
 that the environment is a beauty. There are a few courses that is somewhat tough to get through, 
 especially Wiz Wiz and Silvia Cannon, which there are numerous obstacles and water hazards. Actually 
 uh, I'm up for both fictitious and realistic golf experiences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: specialed
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 30, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  SSG has the flair to it like TW golf in that you buy clothes and clubs and stuff to enhance your 
 attributes, and the courses are pretty sweet graphically speaking, but I just couldnt get over 
 a few things that made me sale it.
  
  One: The character animations were just too feministic. All of them, guys too, moved their hips 
 alot and just had the movements of a girl, or 'metro-man'. I didnt so much hate it, but it was 
 just something to put me over with my other complaints.
  
  Two: The ball physics were not as true as Mario Golf for GC or TW golf. I mean, when the ball hits 
 the fairway after a drive, i expect some roll, but not as much as it does. And even irons like 
 the 8i or pw, when it hits the ground, unless you put some backspin on it, it will roll more than 
 it shoudl for that type of club. The ball just rolls too much for a golf game with most of your 
 drivers, woods and irons.
  
  Three: I dont care what anyone says about it, I even was on the side of most, when they said the 
 flow of the game was not too bad, that it was fairly quick compared to other golf games. Balogna! 
 The game takes longer than any other golf game when it comes to 18 holes... I believe it took on 
 average about an hour or more to finish 18 holes. I can play 18 holes on Mario Golf against the 
 cpu and be done in 30-45 minutes tops... The flow is just putt-putt-putt. You shoudl be able to 
 skip or speed up certain animations from the cpu, or just make the game flow alittle faster...
 
  
  I truly believe that if you liked the mario golf games or TW golf games, you will not like this. 
 Even hot shots golf is better as far as the things I mentioned.
  
  I would wait for TW golf and poss. get the **cross fingers** new Mario golf game for the wii if 
 it comes out. SSG can be a good game at certain aspects, like courses and graphics and upgrades 
 and features used during the game, but its just too slow and aggrevating to tread through 18 holes 
 over and over...
  
  Save your money unless you like the things I mentioned that i dont like or if you are younger and 
 don't care. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krn_jpn
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 28, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Before the wii was released, I was introduced to this game by a friend. At the beginning, this 
 game was very tricky to get used to (and it still is) , but I still love it. There's something about 
 this game that just draws me into it. Personally, having to swing the wiimote is annoying and I 
 would rather play using the old fashioned way (my perfect shot percentage went up 50% using the 
 old way) . If your a person that gets easily frustrated, it might be better to avoid this game. 
 It takes a lot of patience and time to become better. This is a game that is ignored but deserves 
 a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chankk
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 26, 2007 1:21 am PT
Review:  Super Swing Golf, the Wii adaptation of the Korean online game Pangya - or as it's called stateside, 
 Albatross 18 - is the first to bring one of the two sports that were to be expected with the Wiimote 
 control to your living room. SSG is a truely entertaining and infuriating game all at the same 
 time for both casual and hardcore gamers alike.
  
  Let's begin with the bad news since, as I personally do enjoy this game, I'd like to end on a high 
 note. Who the hell decided to make first player mode all about stories with unskippable cutscenes? 
 And what the heck is up with the character development that doesn't actually develop any of the 
 characters. As a lifetime student of literature and film that concept simply blows my mind. Characters 
 have mediocre, at best, purposes for their involvement in Pangya Festa the 1 player tournament 
 mode which consists of a combination stomping and being stomped by npc golfers even long after 
 you've found and perfected your golf swing. A biker who wants to be an airforce pilot, a pirate 
 with a missing father, two whiney kids who really don't have any purpose what-so-ever except to 
 be whiney kids, the list goes on for their charactaristics and motivations but none of it matters 
 since the only reason for any of it seems to be to take up time during your tournament game rounds.
 
  
  Secondly, in the complaints department, is the fact that the computer is sometimes rather... *ahem* 
 unbalanced in it's capabilities. You may begin playing a sub-par golfer who turns into Tiger Woods 
 by hole 8 launching rocket-propelled Albatrosses from 200yds out. However, at the same time it 
 must be noted that for the more skilled this sudden jump definately adds a level of difficulty 
 to truely challenge those looking for it; but, when it happens during your first tournament with 
 a level one character it can be quite frustrating.
  
  Finally, despite following in the footsteps of a global online game, SSG itself features no such 
 online multiplayer play being released so early with Nintendo's new system. The single player mode 
 is intended to compensate for this, as you can still play multiplayer with other people present 
 with you and your console, but for those who have competed against someone a thousand miles away 
 the experience just isn't the same.
  
  So why should you even bother with this game then? Characters you don't care about, story and cutscenes 
 that only interfere with your golfing concentration, and AI jumping all over the board in it's 
 skills, and no online features? Who would bother? Well, anyone looking for a golfing game that 
 ISN'T Tiger Woods 5047, as is made obviously right off the bat with the anime-esque characters. 
 SSG takes golf and avoids the meticulously calculated and sometimes surgical requirements of so 
 many other golf games and makes it fun.
  
  Once you've learned your swing, which for many is a smooth curve with only few hitches along the 
 way. It doesn't take long to find your Set , Backswing , Downswing , Follow-through positions to 
 allow for a decent shot most of the time, though by not long it may still take a few rounds. The 
 game implements ridiculously impossible shot elements - outside of topspin and backspin, curve 
 can allow you to take a shot straight at that 200ft tall mountain and manage to launch your ball 
 around it in a perfect crescent landing directly on the other side, and power shots that will drop 
 a wood shot 250yds out without any roll or burn below those hanging branches before popping up 
 over that ridge to lay up on the green. And, while you may not care about their stories too much 
 the character actions and reactions to shots they take and make, or miss, are undeniably entertaining. 
 Though you can't believe you missed that 20yd putt uphill drifting to the left, Hana collapsing 
 can't help but relieve your spirits a little and make you smile through the frustration. Or, perhaps 
 your opponent's caddie shaking his or her head at their golfer's ball as it sinks itself into a 
 bunker two miles from nowhere might make you feel a little better about your own game.
  
  With the swing mode SSG takes decent advantage of the Wiimote but what's more important, in my 
 opinion, is that SSG also allows for a development of the player's own swing style through the 
 Wiimote that makes the game that much more fun, especially when playing against friends who all 
 swing differently. Once you've found your Pangya swing that sound which seems so bothersome to 
 others suddenly becomes a welcome and highly anticipated announcement of perfection as with the 
 plink of club-face hitting ball, and ball soaring into the wild blue yonder a high-pitched cartoonish 
 voice shouts PANGYA! at you through your television. Having played golf in the past I have a somewhat 
 standard swing, though I've gone through several in the game and for a while used a bizzare V-motion 
 which one of my friends now uses. Meanwhile, yet another friend swings his Wiimote like a baseball 
 bat while yet another does a fantastic one-handed, one-footed swing with a spin which, while rarely 
 getting Pangya, does manage to get him down the fairway and looks fantastically hilarious in action.
 
  
  The game also features the ability to purchase with Pang - the in game currency - earned accessories, 
 clubs, caddies, and most importantly, clothes. Yes, it's DoA: BeachVolleyball all over again with 
 the most crucial element to such a goofy sport oriented game: playing dress-up. Clothes can actually 
 help your game as they do add stats but for many players stats will come from extra club sets purchased 
 or caddies used while the clothes you wear will simply be something for the player his or herself 
 to enjoy or be comically entertained by as you swing your way to glorious, motorcycle helmet, speedo, 
 cowboy-boot wearing victory.
  
  Personally, I place this game in my top two rating against Trauma Center: SO for my Wii collection 
 thus far. It's not because it's the best game, but because it's a game that requires skill but 
 is still fun and entertaining. Yes it can be angering when on that last hole, round tied, the CPU 
 pops up an Eagle through a tree from 90yds out, but that's just the motivation I may needs to better 
 my game and stomp him into the ground the next time we play. This is a game you will either love 
 or hate, or love to hate as you trudge through round after round doing fierce golfing combat against 
 the most heartless of AI foes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: canadianloonie
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 4, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  1. Tons of Replay Value!
  Super Swing Golf have tons of unlockables (characters, golf courses, clothing, equipments, caddies, 
 etc) . So, if you are the type who likes to get every single thing and achieve 100% game completion, 
 this game will keep you preoccupied for a very long, long time. Very addictive. Got me hooked already.
 
  
  2. Accurate Swing Motion Sensor
  Super Swing Golf's swing sensor is surprisingly accurate! So much so that my virtual golf shots 
 resembles a whole like my real life shots. At the beginning... when I don't think about my shots 
 a whole lot, I would get lots of Panyas (perfect shots) . But, as the match progresses and I start 
 to overthink and overcompensate for my swing, my shots would start shanking to the right. Very 
 impressive... I think :-)
  
  3. Great Putting System
  The grid system may look foreign and confusing at the beginning. But once you go through the tutorial 
 and learn what it is all about, it is great! I don't think I can ever use any other system again. 
 The grid system shows you everything you need to know about the green (slope, speed, etc...) accurately 
 and (best of all) in a very simple way. Once you get the hang of it, you can make long putts go 
 in. Nothing is more satisfying!!
  (Side Note: I just look at the preview of Tiger Woods Golf '07 and it seems like they are also 
 using the same grid putting system. I guess you copy what works, right?)
  
  4. Fun and Upbeat Graphics/Music
  The graphics (anime characters & courses) and the music just 
 makes you feel good! It draws you in and makes you want to play continually. You'll simply lose 
 track of time when playing this game.
  
  THE BAD:
  1. No Multiple Save Games
  Super Swing Golf only allows for ONE save game. This means that if you have other family members 
 or friends who wants to play their own single player game, they can't. Everyone will be stuck playing 
 the ONE save game that was initially created. A huge bummer and a surprising oversight because 
 this is pretty much a standard feature on any other game.
  
  2. No Mid-Match Saves
  The games' 9 hole or 18 hole matches take a while to complete. It takes me about an hour to go 
 through a 9 hole match on average. So, I would expect to be able to save the game in the middle 
 of a match. Unfortunately, this is not the case. So, if something comes up while you are in the 
 middle of a grueling 9 hole match, you are pretty much force to either play the whole thing again 
 later or leave the game running until you come back.
  
  3. Inefficient UI Design
  Super Swing Golf has several UI design flaws that made playing the a game longer than what it really 
 should be. For example, there are no mini course map on the main screen. You'll need to switch 
 to a different screen everytime you want to see the overview map of the current hole. This really 
 slows things down since you NEED to the use the map screen A LOT just to see the current course 
 layout and select the target location for your next shot. To make matters worst, the map screen, 
 for some reason, shows a real zoomed in view of the course. You cannot see the full view of the 
 hole all at once. So, there's lots of scrolling up, down, and sideways just to see what you are 
 dealing with.
  
  THE FINAL WORD:
  The game is by no means perfect. There are things that you will enjoy a lot. There are things that 
 will frustrate and annoy you. But, the game is fun and addictive enough that you're willing to 
 play through its shortcomings.
  
  For my final words, I'll try to answer the most common questions in everyone mind about this game...
 
  1. Is it worth it getting Super Swing Golf given that I already have Wii Golf to play with?
  My answer is yes. Super Swing Golf has more than enough content and depth over Wii Golf that would 
 justify paying a full price for it.
  
  2. Should I get Super Swing Golf or should I wait for Tiger Woods '07 to arrive?
  This answer 
 really depends more personal preference than anything. If you like a more realistic golf game, 
 then it is probably better for you to wait for Tiger Woods. But for me, I've always prefered playing 
 over-the-top fantasy courses over the real world courses. This is the reason I decided to get Super 
 Swing Golf over Tiger Woods in the first place. Super Swing Golf offered exactly what I was looking 
 for. I love the whole fantasy aspect of this game. I like the cute Anime characters. The different 
 fantasy golf courses are great. To top it off, you have the ability to aquire new clothes and equipments 
 to improve your golf stats (increase distances, improve accuracy, etc...) It feels like you're 
 playing a golf version of Final Fantasy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tak963
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jan 22, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  I rented Super Swing Golf with my father because we were enjoying the golf on Wii Sports so much. 
 We get in the car, I read the story on the manual, and it says some dumb stuff about Pangya Island, 
 which reminds me of some story I never read. I told my father about it, he frowned but kept his 
 hopes up. We did the training and hated it step by step. The graphics are good but it's the controls 
 and the places and it will just make you mad. Super Swing Golf is kind of odd, maybe if they made 
 the controls a lot easier it could be better. Although the enviorment is kind of odd. Super Swing 
 Golf tried, but didn't get my attention to play more than once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saiyukalibur
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 20, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  When I first saw the ad for this game, I thought it was awesome (anime-style games tend to fail 
 me, so I had my doubts at first) . I wiki'd the series, learned about the original online version 
 (albatross18) and downloaded it. Loved Albatross18, so when I got the wii for christmas (I LOVE 
 YOU DAD! Consoles are a girl's best friend!) , I used the $100 my grandmother gave me to buy the 
 $50 game. It started off a little hard, but I got used to it, and can't wait to unlock everything.
 
  
  It will take several tries for you to beat someone, so you will get discouraged. Putting is the 
 most annoying part of the game, since you can't necessarily predict the curve that well. While 
 your opponent frequently gets amazing shots, you have to work a little harder than they do.
  
  My suggestion? Have a nice, cold bottle of water when you're playing. You might need it.
 
  
  GET THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umd1998
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 17, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Wii or free? That's the question.
  
  Super Swing Golf for Nintendo's new console is a remake of a free downloadable PC game, Albatross18. 
 So why would anyone shell out $50 for the Wii version when it doesn't have online multiplayer like 
 the PC game does? And why buy another golf sim when Wii Sports already comes with the system?
 
  
  Here's why: Swinging the Wii's wireless remote controller like a golf club is addictive and fun. 
 And think of Wii Sports golf as an appetizer, while Super Swing Golf is the full meal.
  
  Super Swing Golf is well-suited to the Wii. It has a cult following for several reasons: an intuitive 
 interface, customizable anime-style characters and lots of extras to help your golfing, such as 
 trick shots and power-ups.
  
  Wii Sports golf came first, but it has a nine-hole maximum, no tournaments against multiple characters 
 and is more akin to real golf -- and just as unforgiving and frustrating.
  
  Early in the gameplay, Super Swing Golf might seem more difficult than Wii Sports golf -- especially 
 putting. But once players get accustomed to the game, it gets better.
  
  Like most golf sims, players can adjust the angle and distance of their shots. Unlike most golf 
 games, the Wii remote can be used to pan quickly around the course from overhead, plan a strategy 
 and choose a club.
  
  Ingenious obstacles make you lay up or risk taking a crazy trick shot -- such as hitting your ball 
 through the tiny doorway of a crumbled desert temple.
  It's obvious that Super Swing Golf targets kids and non-golfers. The game has a very cartoony look, 
 with golf balls that leave a trail of fireworks and zany caddies who chase your drives.
  
  For winning and completing tasks, players level up as they would in a role-playing game and earn 
 Pang points, which can be used to buy clubs, clothes or special items. But navigating the clunky 
 menus to manage your inventory and figuring out how to upgrade skill points is confusing.
  
  Players can compete against characters in many stroke-play tournaments or in match play, or 
 go one on one. Unfortunately, the excellent Balloon Pop game is only for two people and can't be 
 played alone.
  
  Super Swing Golf has other drawbacks: In match play, characters often hit amazing shots that get 
 near the cup and birdie most holes, which makes them tough to defeat. But in stroke play, opponents 
 usually finish over par and are easier to beat -- an odd lack of balance. And the game's graphics 
 are dated.
  
  You'll either get hooked on Super Swing Golf or despise it. Try downloading Albatross18 or renting 
 the Wii game before buying it. But you might want to wait for Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07, which is 
 due in March. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ignoman
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 17, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  It's not a perfect golf game, but the Wii controls are fun, there's tons of customization and unlockables, 
 and the gameplay is simple enough and challenging.
  
  It really is an average game on the surface, though. The graphics and music are rather simple... 
 and many of the areas and cutscenes have sketchy framerates or even slowdown. The character designs 
 are of the rather-generic, cutesy-anime type, but there's plenty of costumes to dress them up with. 
 You can buy extra equipment and accessories and level them all up to some degree. One of the better 
 parts of this game is that there's always stuff to unlock or buy... you'll have fun earning loot 
 and spending it on new clubs or improving your character's power by leveling-up his t-shirt.
  
  The game plays a bit oddly, too... but it does create a functional arcade golf experience. 
 Courses are of the bizarre fantasy type, from beaches with giant mushrooms an lighthouses to a 
 fleet of battleships. There's plenty of challenging shots to make, and the game gives you a variety 
 of powers and options to encourage making daring trick shots. Not terribly realistic to pull crazy 
 mid-air hooks through a pyramid formation, but temptation to pull the unthinkable is always there 
 and the punishment for failure is usually an OB... just the way it should be.
  
  Controlling the game with the Wiimote was the main draw. I think this makes the game really fun. 
 It's certainly playable and hands-down better than Wii Sports golf. I'm a pretty good PangYa Wii 
 golfer now... even if my swing isn't exactly like a true golf swing. Putting is a little less realistic 
 (I often do it with one hand and a greatly exaggerated motion) but once you learn PangYa's new 
 grid system, you'll find it can be managable.
  
  THE VERDICT
  
  SSG is the first true Wii golf game, and to be fair... it's adequate.
  
  It's got its problems. 
 The menus are a little clunky, there's some decent load times. AI difficulty can vary wildly. Much 
 of the games other elements (gameplay, graphics, sound) are standard, if not mediocre. To play 
 a round of golf takes a long time, too. Between the multiple buttons that must be hit, the physical 
 act of standing up and taking the shot, the practice swings... the game just takes longer than 
 a normal golf video game would. A four-player 18-hole match would be an easy way to kill a whole 
 day!
  
  But! For some reason, I'm addicted. The game always gives you a new challenge and playing golf 
 on the Wii is a lot of fun. Of the several Wii games I've tried... I probably play this one most 
 of any.
  
  I'd say get it if you can tolerate the cutesy anime style... and have the patience to learn how 
 the menus and the interfaces work. Those looking for a more real-life golf experience, or those 
 with less experience on video games might find SSG a little to bizarre and clunky.
  
  In the end... the Wii really makes this game something special, and since there's no other golf 
 games on the horizon... it will stay that way for quite some time.
  
  +Solid gameplay made better by Wii controls
  +Plenty of challenges and loads of stuff to unlock
 
  +Lots of courses, from tame to utterly crazy
  -It's a pretty average game overall
  -Generic graphics, music, character designs
  -Long load times, frame rate drops, slowdown 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djayshaggy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 9, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  This was definately the best golf game I've played in a while. Fans of golf games should definately 
 pick this game up. It has its draw-backs, but overall it's a very fine tuned golf game with an 
 excellent multiplayer.
  
  The first thing you will notice is how precise the swing controlls ten to be. They may take a while 
 to get used to (I've had my fair share of annoying slices and hooks) , but once you get the controls 
 down, which isn't too hard if you use the practice swing option which shows how you will swing, 
 and learn the difference between the approximate distance shown on screen and how much of that 
 distance is actually spent in the air (it counts the roll as well as the air time and doesn't accomidate 
 for hills or different types of terrain) , the game plays pretty smooth.
  The next thing is the character customizations. It will take you forever to open up all the characters 
 and may take some time to open up a lot of the items as well, but they're well worth it. At first, 
 I thought most of the clothes were just novelties (really expensive novelties) , but when I finally 
 decided to buy some clothes for my character, I realized that all of the clothes you can buy for 
 your character adjust his/her stats. There are also many items, including new balls and clubs (which 
 range from traditional golf clubs to swords, maces, and ever rocket-powered ones) . The game also 
 tries to be like an RPG by letting you level up your character through experience points and implimenting 
 a very quirky story into the game.
  Another area where this game shines is in the multiplayer. While the stroke and match-play modes 
 make for a fun multiplayer experience which requires only one remote, the balloon pop mode will 
 make a great party starter. Balloon Pop mode has you trying to pop as many balloons as you can 
 in a certain amount of moves while everyone else uses their items to change your wind speed and 
 direction, draw on your screen, randomize your clubs, make your balloons smaller, or even give 
 you a timer in which you have to make your shot. In my experience this can cause some very hectick 
 gameplay which can add alot of challenge for even the best SSGolfer.
  But while the game shines in a number of ways, it is not without its faults. First of all the AI 
 in single player tends to be inconsistent, sucking at times and then getting tremendously better. 
 Generally, if you can get a par on every course and pleanty of pang points (gained by making good 
 shots) , you shouldn't have much of a problem winning. But that's not always very easy. Other smaller 
 issues include some lag issues at times and the lack of voice over and the cheesy way the characters 
 stand beside each other when they're talking to each other.
  
  Overall Super Swing Golf is a solid first golf game for the Wii and one of the best games on the 
 system so far. With its solid motion detection and Button option for a more classic style of gameplay, 
 for golf game fans, I would say this is a must buy. It's a little hard, but, hey, golf isn't exactly 
 the easiest game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reggie186
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jan 9, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Sports games are hard to do. I can understand that. If you make them too easy, people will complain. 
 If you make them too hard, people will complain. The problem with Super Swing Golf on the Nintendo 
 Wii is that the game is a filthy liar. A NO GOOD, FILTHY LIAR. The game has a simple mechanic of 
 swinging the wii-mote like you would a golf club. To let you know how much power you are going 
 to hit the ball with, there is a meter on the bottom of the screen. This meter also serves to help 
 you decide how much power to give it.
  
  HERE'S THE PROBLEM:
  
  Often when you follow the game's tips on how hard to hit the ball, you still fall short. ARE YOU 
 HEARING THIS? THE GAME TRICKS YOU! This makes games against the AI very frusterating (especially 
 because the AI can almost always make par on every hole) . It's really too bad that the game designers 
 couldn't do their jobs right, because Super Swing Golf could be a fun game if it worked right. 
 The anime style is fun and the music is soothing (and good for golf) . There is a lame story attached 
 to the Pangya Fest , but it's forgetable, just like the game as a whole.
  
  Actually, I take that back. I will always remember Super Swing Golf as the first game I was ever 
 ashamed to own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeahdogg
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 5, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  I played a good amount of Super Swing Golf over the weekend. I can attest to the fact that you 
 DO get better and used to it . No, this isn't golf exactly as it is in real life. This is more 
 fun. The swing mechanic isn't exactly like real golf, but Super Swing Golf is SO much closer to 
 real golfing than Wii Sports Golf. Super Swing Golf does take some getting used to... and does 
 incorporate somewhat of learning curve, but I think once you get the hang of this game, TRUE fans 
 of golf will LOVE IT.
  
  WARNING:
  This is one of those games where you could throw your wiimote through your television. Be careful. 
 Don't.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphic quality is nice, but has some room for improvement. (Even by Wii standards.) Frame 
 rate slows at times when there are certain visual effects on the screen. Although slightly negative, 
 this does not happen a lot. The dialog cutscenes (attempt at a story) between matches in single-player 
 mode are nice, but not necessary (since they have nothing to do with... anything) .
  
  AUDIO:
  The audio is very thin. (Only background music, no spoken dialog.) Spoken dialog would 
 be REALLY welcome for the cutscenes. This would help differentiate Super Swing Golf from its PC 
 counterpart Albatross 18 .
  
  DIFFICULTY:
  The difficulty of computer controlled opponents is surprisingly inconsistent. Your opponent could 
 make a really stupid tee shot (that no one with half a brain would even try) ... and then hole out 
 (complete the hole) by chipping in from a bunker forty yards away. When playing the computer, you 
 can't simply stay one step ahead of your opponent. You have to bring your A game to every shot.
 
  
  MULTIPLAYER:
  Local multiplayer only. One mini-game . (Although it's couched in a somewhat real game, read more 
 on this below.) No online multiplayer modes as of yet.
  
  - later -
  
  Wow. This game gets good. Or rather, you get good at it. Either way, this game gets really fun 
 once you get the hang of it. It's almost like REAL golf! (well, you have A LOT of advantages that 
 you don't have in real golf, but it feels very similar)
  
  ...
  
  That's it. I'm going on the record. Super Swing Golf is the greatest golfing video game ever made. 
 (well... to date)
  
  Perfect? Absolutely not. Fun? Definitely. Hard? Absolutely. This game is complicated to learn and 
 get good at, just like real golf. This game is fun and addicting once you get the hang of it, just 
 like real golf.
  
  (Remember NOT to throw your wiimote through your TV.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macman1978
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  when my wife bought me this game i was definitely suspicious of how good this game could possibly 
 be. after an hour of trying to figure out the control i found my self very involved into the game. 
 the graphics arn't anything amazing but the game is put together well. super swing golf can be 
 very fun and addictive for anyone in the house. the vs. is fun and competitive and the single player 
 is addictive when your trying to get your dude or chick in the gear that you want or getting all 
 the attributes all the way up. the control can be fun but in can be a pain in the butt at times. 
 i would say to any one who's thinking about buying this game, rent it before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonny_reb
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 30, 2006 2:48 am PT
Review:  Super Swing golf is a game you will love or hate almost the second you start playing. You MUST 
 be able to tolerate the most cutesy of cutesy anime so be prepared. The gameplay is very close 
 to the standard golf game with the execption of how the swing is preformed. You pull back to adjust 
 power and press A when you're ready for your downswing. This is wonderful and truly revolutionizes 
 the golf genre. It feels accurate and provides a way of improving through practice, and it becomes 
 very rewarding once you have the swing down. All is good and fine in this department. There are 
 complaints about the putting system but it feels fine to me. Good golf skills will reward you with 
 Pang, the game's money which lets you buy a huge variety of item in the shop and boost your stats. 
 The system works very well and is rather addictive. The problem that bothers me with the gameplay 
 is the constant waiting. Around 40 percent of your time in story mode is spent watching the CPU 
 take its turn. This turns the fun experience into something a liitle yawn worthy. It would have 
 been nice to atleast have an option to change this. Story mode or Pangya Festa mode is something 
 that could have been more fun with some higher production values and a more rpg like experience. 
 Voice acting would have enhanced these characters personalities and its would have been better 
 to follow a large story centering around one character and keep on building on that one characters 
 stats and have an opportunity to play the minor characters in the other modes. This makes more 
 sence because the game has some deep customization that feels lessened when you are only using 
 one charater for afew rounds and moving on to the next. You are looking at a good 50 hour story 
 mode and countless hours for spending on other modes so this is a huge game that could of felt 
 more epic with a persistent story. I know im being very critical, but I assure you this is a good 
 game and I still feel content with the story mode despite my complaining. This is my review and 
 I rather say things that I havent heard anyone else say.
  
  The presentation in Super Swing is below average. The menus could have been more manageable and 
 less complex. The visual look rather bad. I would say Hot Shots on PSP looks better. The game is 
 has horrible jagged edges everywhere and the textures look like they are from an early gen gamecube 
 game. At least the game is pretty artistic and colourful. The biggest dissapointment of the presentation 
 is no 16x9 support. Ok, so ive already said it, this is a good game. Nothing exceptional in my 
 opinion, but if you like quirky golf games, and you want another wii game then take a look. There 
 are many people who have fallen in love with it and there are people who have hated it. I definately 
 like the a gameplay but after playing gears of war the presentaion was hard for me to swallow. 
 If you are a next gen virgin (have not seen XBOX 360 graphics) than you'll get by, and get much 
 more into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scurran007
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 17, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  First off, The game is well worth the price, but there are a couple of issues. IF you play against 
 the computer, be ready to lose. The computer generated Characters always seem to make perfect swings 
 and birdies... When you play competition in single stroke Virsus mode, none of the computer characters 
 seem to ever go under par!!!
  In Mario Golf, at least other characters make mistakes, which makes it more interesting, but in 
 super swing, you better be Pro to take them on!
  
  If you play with your Family and Frends, then it makes things more fair.... at least you can compete 
 with non-perfect players. Earning money to by items takes way too long! They should give you at 
 least double the pang for long 18 hole games. and that brings me to 18 hole games (;-) How many 
 hours do you want to play? an 18 hole game will take the entire night.... at least with 4 player.... I 
 find that we get tired at about the 9th hole... but we continue to play because it takes so long 
 to get pang.... we don't want to give up!
  I like the game.... Just needs some tweaking so that the player does not get abused!
  
  1/17/07 
 ---By the way... the computer cheats! Just whe nyour Character is winning... the Com Character will 
 get a chip-in from 44 yard.... GET REAL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigatron
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 26, 2006 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Relaxed Mood, Good hole design, many unlockables
  
  Cons: Controls could've been worked on a bit, not very deep
  
  This is the first U. S. release 
 of Pangya golf, which is an arcadey golf game with an anime flair. It's pretty much like a Wii 
 Hot Shots. The controls take some getting used to. You have to adjust your position, backswing, 
 then hold down A and swing. It doesn't feel as natural as Wii Golf, but then again this is NOT 
 a sim! You pick whether you want to be male or female, and then you can tackle single-player, and 
 if you conquer its challenges then you can reap the unlockable spoils, such as courses, items to 
 customize your guy, or more characters. The game is VERY relaxing, with it's breezy graphics and 
 smooth tunes. Tecmo knows how to make a good game, and this is no exception. GS was right about 
 one thing, this WILL turn off die-hard fans of golf. I couldn't imagine a big tiger woods fan getting 
 much out of this. But, if you are open-minded (and your friends likewise) , and want to play a fun, 
 light-hearted game of golf, this is a great title to pick up. In closing, this is a worthy addition 
 to your collection, especially if you have people to play with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkness1246
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 24, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Its an interesting game but i have seen the same game online already. What did they drop the free 
 online and goto the Wii.
  Personally i would not waste my money on it since i was free to play and online. To suddenly pay 
 money even with the fact that controls are different can still be considered a rip off. Anyway 
 buy it if you want to but since it has a background for online i would most certainly make sure 
 you get online game play for when you buy stuff like outfits. Its got a fun style combined with 
 great graphics. Good for a gold game but then again its also free and partnered with Maple story. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrincessPeach15
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 21, 2006 1:14 am PT
Review:  At first this game can be more than frustrating. The good news is that it becomes a lot of fun 
 if you just keep with it for a bit to see how your personal swing works with the game. From there 
 it's easy to tweak it so that you can get a pangya shot almost all the time. This game picks up 
 where Wii Sports Golf (although a blast as well) lacks in different variables that you can adjust 
 when taking your shots. The bigger variety in courses and holes is great too. The putting is by 
 far the most frustrating part of the game at first. Just when you think you've got it... think 
 again. Eventually, that too, becomes much easier with a little play. Overall, the game is really 
 great. The option to switch to control style instead of swing style play is great for those lazy 
 days. Not being able to skip computer shots is also a little annoying sometimes. The more I play 
 this game the more I like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slasher2119
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 20, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  dont be so hard on this game like gamespot was. i play golf in real life and have a rather bad 
 slice in real life and found out that ssg replicates it pretty well unfortunately for me lol. however 
 after some quality time with the game i actually hit the links again and found out my real golf 
 game improved a little bit. links to real life aside this game is pretty well done and if you own 
 a wii and like golf youll find this much better than golf on the sports disc. buying things using 
 the pangya you earn will keep you busy for awhile and let you customize your golfer the way you 
 want. the other modes are pretty good but as gs pointed out mulitplayer is super awesome for it. 
 you might have some problems with gameplay as later levels require you to be pretty spot on. if 
 youre playing alone give this a 7.5 if playing with friends give it 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chibi-acer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 19, 2006 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Note: This is a fairly long review. If you don't want to read the whole thing, jump to the bottom 
 for my conclusion.
  
  Super Swing Golf is the Wii version of Albatross 18, an online golf game known as Pangya to the 
 rest of the world, developed by a Koren game company. Albatross 18 is free to play (http://www. albatross18. com) , 
 though there are lots of clothing equipment upgrades in the game that improve your stats, and the 
 best of these generally cost real money. IMO it's a really addictive game that's easy enough to 
 play but can take a long time to master.
  
  Anyway, Super Swing Golf is played entirely offline. This may put some people off, but the Wii 
 is all about unique controls and getting real people to gather together and have fun. In that, 
 I think SSG certainly succeeds.
  
  The controls take some getting used to, but work really well. A basic turn consists of selecting 
 your clubs and choosing what direction to aim. Then you enter shot mode, at which point you control 
 the power meter by how far back you swing the controller. Once you pull the controller back far 
 enough to the desired power, you hold the A button and swing through.
  
  Compared to Wii Sports Golf, this game has a much better feel, in my opinion. Wii Sports Golf actually 
 penalizes you for swinging through too far, which feels all sorts of wrong to me. I think part 
 of the problem is that Wii Sports Golf focuses on the power and length of your swing, but the Wiimote 
 motion sensing is just not accurate enough to measure the motions correctly. As a result, you end 
 up making too many short swings and half swings in order to get the correct ball placement.
  
  The difficulty in SSG is hitting a clean shot. The game detects the arc motion you swing with 
 fairly well. If your swing hooks or slices, the ball with hook or slice as well (i. e. rather than 
 going straight it will curve slightly to the left or right) . If you make a relatively perfect swing 
 (you get more leeway by improving your Control stat) your ball will go straight (assuming there's 
 no wind) , and you can optionally pull off some trick shots.
  
  Strangely, some other reviews criticize this control scheme, but it's actually a lot like real 
 golf. The only thing that may bother (real) golf purists is that you end up winding back and swinging 
 in two completely separate motions. Other than that, I don't see what the problem is, other than 
 it's not played like EA's Tiger Wood's Golf. Oh darn, something new. :)
  
  Getting used to the swing motion to the point that you can hit clean shots (called Pangyas in the 
 game) can take some practice, but it's possible. After about 4 hours into the game I could do it 
 fairly well. Even if I missed Pangya, I would still be accurate enough to land the ball pretty 
 close to where I wanted it. After 12-15 hours I have pretty much mastered the swing, and can hit 
 Pangya shots almost on demand. In the last 18 holes I played I think I missed Pangya 4 times, with 
 2-3 shots per hole. Not trying to brag, just trying to point out that it's certainly possible to 
 get the swing system down. In my opinion, it's not a flawed system at all, it just takes some practice.
 
  
  It's definitely possible to do well without mastering hitting perfect pangya shots. Much like Albatross 
 18, you can do really well getting a perfect shot less then 40% of the time, but some of the experts 
 will have ratios above 80%. The benefit of hitting a pangya is the trick shots, which are crazy 
 fun when you hit them correctly. These are a lot like the trick shots in Mario Golf, where you 
 could double tap A or B when you hit the ball to get it to roll forward or backward after landing. 
 In SSG, you pick your shot before you hit, and then the effect goes off if you hit a pangya.
  
  To be fair, I will add that my brother is having a slightly tougher time getting the swing 
 down. He's played for about than 10 hours, and while he's had some streaks of good hits, he'll 
 occasionally lose his rhythm and blow multiple shots in a row. Part of this can probably chalked 
 up to frustration, just how it can effect you in any sport. Perhaps a case of the game being too 
 realistic? In any case he's definitely getting more consistent, so practice makes perfect. It's 
 definitely a lot easier to master the swing motion in SSG than in real golf. :)
  
  Another complaint I've heard is the putting system. For better or for worse, it's exactly the same 
 as in Albatross18/Pangya. I can see how it's not for everyone, but it seems to another instance 
 where there's nothing wrong with it, it's just different from what a lot of people are used to. 
 I actually prefer this system.
  
  When putting, the slope of the green is represented by drawing a grid over the green, and then 
 placing dots in each grid square indicating where the ball would roll to if the ball was dropped 
 in the center. I've heard a lot of people (who never played Albatross before) have problems with 
 it, but it's actually pretty mathematical, and any Albatross expert should have no problem sinking 
 putts 20 yards away or more. It's certainly different from most golf games, but again, it's certainly 
 something than can be mastered. From a design standpoint there's really nothing wrong with it, 
 IMO.
  
  Putting tip: For most putts you can try lining up the 4th dot from your character with the hole. 
 Another general rule is that the ball will curve the distance of a horizontally sloped dot for 
 approximately every 8-10 yards of distance.
  
  Another complaint I recall reading is being unable to skip the computer's turn. While this is mostly 
 true (in tournament mode you don't watch the computer play) , it's not that big a deal in my opinion, 
 and also adds some value to the game.
  
  First of all, for anyone used to playing Albatross/Pangya, it's not like you could skip the other 
 player's turns online (or in real life, for that matter) . So for fans of the series, it's no big 
 deal. Second, the computer doesn't spend much time thinking, so the pace is still pretty quick. 
 And third, it's a lot of fun when it feels like you're playing someone, even though it's not a 
 real person. The game becomes a competition to win, rather than feeling like you're just playing 
 by yourself. And isn't that the point of most sports games anyway, to compete? And again, if you 
 really want to play by yourself without watching the computer just enter tournament mode or practice 
 mode and you won't have to see the computer hit.
  
  The last complaint I'll address in this review is the difficultly. The computer will sometimes 
 make amazing shots, landing mere yards from the hole, or chipping the ball in from 40 yards away. 
 Other times (granted not very often) it will take some odd shots and land in the water or some 
 other hazard.
  
  In my opinion, the difficulty is not that bad. If you ever play Albatross/Pangya, you will quickly 
 see people online who make the computer in SSG seem like a novice. Additionally, it's somewhat 
 representive of professional golf. Let's face it, not many people can beat Tiger Woods. I certainly 
 can't out drive him, and my chip shots aren't that amazing. In order to beat him, you pretty much 
 have to play a good enough game to keep up until he makes a mistake.
  
  I'm exaggerating a bit, as the computer is generally not so amazing that you can't beat it without 
 playing a perfect game. However, there will certainly be some holes where the computer sinks a 
 birdie when you're still trying to get on the green. These don't happen very often though, and 
 it's just a fact of playing golf. Sometimes your opponent will have a really good hole, and there's 
 not much you can do about it. You just have to be better on the other holes.
  
  In terms of multiplayer, SSG is a blast. I think Nintendo has the right idea about getting people 
 playing together in front of the same TV again. Sure, online gaming is fun too, but it doesn't 
 quite provide the same experience.
  
  There's lot of outfits and equipment to unlock, and the story mode is pretty fun, once you get 
 the hang of playing the game. And unlike Albatross, you won't have to play additional fees to buy 
 items. After 30+ hours of playing I have what would probably cost me more than $300 in Albatross 
 items. And there's still a lot of stuff I need to unlock.
  
  Summary:
  IMO, Super Swing Golf is a great game, and it feels like a lot of the negative reviews so far just 
 didn't give the game a chance. It certainly plays differently from other golf games and can take 
 a while to master the swing motion, but there's not really anything wrong with that.
  
  SSG is certainly not for everyone. People who don't like cute anime-style characters may not care 
 for the design of this game. Likewise, the game is enough like Albatross 18/Pangya for the PC that 
 if you didn't like those games you probably won't like this either. And of course if you hate golf 
 games or are just hardcore Tiger Woods Golf this may not be for you. But anyone who has a light 
 interest in golf games, anyone who wants a different Wii/golf experience, or especially anyone 
 who likes Albatross 18, this game is definitely worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poppy425
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 18, 2006 8:42 pm PT
Review:  I loved the game save for the control. I guess the issues with the owners throwing their remote 
 thru tv's made a change to the control. My 1 and only issue is with the controls. I was looking 
 forward to taking natural swings and hoping for the best (just like real golf) would equate to 
 what happened on the screen. So I found that I had to first find the best position for the system 
 to determine my position, once I got my position I had to set my range and then swing. The only 
 interactive part with the remote was the swing determining how my swing affected the actual ball 
 path. Putting wasn't much better. But anyways, this was a lost opportunity to make a great game. 
 I hope for much better offerings because this platform has so much more possibilities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keveinmay
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 16, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  This is my first review so bear with me.... Super Swing Golf is a great game for anyone who appreciates 
 the sport of golf. Yes it is quirky and set in a fantasy land, but once you get past that, it is 
 really a surprisingly deep golf game. You can do all of the stuff you would expect to do in a golf 
 game, including backspin, hooking, slicing, curving the ball, low punch shots, this game has it 
 all. As far as controls go, the game of course uses the Wii mote to swing the golf club. On your 
 back swing you select the desired amount of power, click and hold A then let it rip. The wii-mote 
 senses if your club is straight or if you would hook or slice the ball. This was not good for me 
 at first because I tend to slice the ball in real life, so i sliced the ball in the game. But i 
 have sinces corrected my swing and want to try to same technique in real life to see if it holds 
 up. O ya and putting isn't all that bad once you read the instruction manual about what the dots 
 mean, and if you have any golf skill at all you can read the green with the dots. No there isn't 
 a curved line to help you cheat in my book, to see if you are going to make it in. But hey there 
 isn't a curved line in real life so suck it up. There is also a button mode for swinging the golf 
 club like traditional console games, but that defeats the whole purpose of buying this game for 
 the Wii so i haven't even thought about trying it yet.
  Graphics wise, this game is very bright and cheery and has some good visuals. Nothing too spectacular. 
 It runs very smooth for the most part, with some minor slow-down when hitting some balls. But the 
 effects are pretty cool so it doesn't bother me too much.
  Sounds in this game are very good, I mean they sound like clubs hitting balls. The music is almost 
 addicting, I will be playing a round of golf, and i will find myself humming to the song, or tapping 
 my feet. And after i sink a putt or hit a good drive i might even dance a little to the songs. 
 Only gripe is, no voice acting. I mean it could be a good thing since the dialouge isn't very good, 
 but after reading the whole Zelda: TP story i am kinda lazy and tired of reading. O well.
  Overall fun factor and lasting appeal for this game are very high. There is so much to unlock and 
 play in single player, it will keep me occupied through the holidays and well after that. Plus 
 there is multiplayer for up to four people. I just played the balloon pop mode for multiplayer 
 which was pretty fun, although i was playing with my g/f and she really couldn't hit any of them 
 so she didnt like it. But i am sure if i play with someone better it would be a blast. There are 
 a total of 11 golf courses all varied in difficulty. I just got to play on the course that takes 
 place on a huge-air craft carrier type of ship and it is crazy, and pretty challenging. This is 
 only the 4th course I have been able to unlock, i can't wait to play some of the later stages, 
 i can only imagine how crazy they are going to be. In conclusion i would DEF. reccomend this game 
 to anyone that is on the fence about it, or anyone who likes golf games in general, very fun, and 
 you won't be dissapointed. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
