-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Super Swing Golf Season 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/swinggolfpangya2ndshot/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fun gameplay that is easy to pick up and play.
 Plenty of items to unlock and collect.
 Less frustrating than the original.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The game on which it's based is free on the PC.
 Not enough game types in tour mode.
 Graphics haven't improved much, if at all, since the first game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  6, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.2, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 90 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Tecmo
Genre: Golf
Date: Dec 11, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though the improvements are minimal, Super Swing Golf Season 2 is more enjoyable than its predecessor. 
 

  The first Super Swing Golf for the Wii was an enjoyable yet flawed game. There aren't many changes 
 to be found in its sequel, Super Swing Golf Season 2, but the few alterations have improved the 
 experience significantly. Although it's less frustrating now, the game still has a significant 
 hurdle: You can essentially play the same game (known as Albatross 18) for free on your PC. Sure, 
 there are no motion controls, and you'll have to shell out some cash if you wish to unlock all 
 of the items, but it's tough to justify a $40 price tag for the Wii version, even if the game is 
 pretty good.  

           There are more than just a few similarities between Hot Shots and Super Swing.      

 
  Take one look at the box for Season 2 and you'll instantly notice more than a few similarities 
 to the Hot Shots Golf series. These similarities become only more apparent when you start to play; 
 the visual style, the characters, and even the gameplay bear more than a passing resemblance to 
 Sony's popular golf franchise. There are a few different play options, such as practice, versus 
 CPU, and offline multiplayer, but you'll spend most of your time in tour mode because that's where 
 you unlock new characters and courses. You begin by picking either a male or female character, 
 both of whom are beginners with limited skills. From there you're taken to an overworld map where 
 you can travel to different areas, though only one is initially available. Once you select an area, 
 you are taken to another map that resembles a board game. The goal is to make your way across the 
 board to the end, where a rival golfer awaits your challenge. Once you've beaten the rival, you 
 unlock that character along with a new area. Thankfully, the developer has chosen to focus less 
 on providing a story, which is a good thing if you found yourself suffering through the inane dialogue 
 in the first game. There's still a bit of yapping between golfers, but it's mostly painless, and 
 you have the option to skip it if it becomes too taxing.  

  Beating the golfer at the end of each area is challenging, but just getting to them will take the 
 most time. You'll have to play a number of short rounds of golf along the way. Generally the challenges 
 are either stroke or match play, but you'll occasionally have to play minigames such as bull's-eye 
 or a long-drive contest, too. Unfortunately, that's about all the variety there is to the proceedings, 
 and you'll find yourself wishing for more game types just a few hours into the tour. Though there's 
 little variety found on the course, there's plenty to be found in the form of unlockables. You'll 
 earn pang (the in-game currency) for good shots and for winning. You can then use this money to 
 unlock new outfits, clubs, caddies, and more. It's a shame that the game's multiplayer doesn't 
 add a whole lot to the package. You can play rounds of golf against up to three other people as 
 well as participate in a few minigames that are fun in short doses, but everything is strictly 
 offline. Granted, the Wii doesn't have too many online games, but it does have some, and this game 
 is based on a series that's entire focus is online play.  

  Season 2 plays almost exactly like the original Super Swing. You'll need to use some ultracreative 
 shot making from time to time late in the game, but generally the gameplay is straightforward and 
 enjoyable. There are two swing options available. You can hold the Wii Remote like a golf club, 
 bring it back to start your swing, press the A button to set your power level, and then swing forward 
 (keeping the remote straight as to avoid hitting the ball left or right) to finish your shot. This 
 is the exact method from the first game, but it's much more user-friendly now because the CPU is 
 less apt to suddenly pull an eagle from thin air, so you're not punished as much for a less-than-perfect 
 shot. The other swing option uses a traditional three-button press swing: one to start your swing, 
 one to set power, and one to determine accuracy. Both swings let you add spin to your shots by 
 pressing the D pad after you've set your power. This works fine with the three-button swing, but 
 it's significantly harder with the motion controls. Putting still uses stationary dots whose positions 
 on the grid overlay indicate the green's slope. This is still less than ideal when viewing the 
 green from your golfer's perspective, but it's less of an issue this time around because the dots 
 are easier to see from above and the greens seem to be much flatter than in the previous game. 

           Cut her some slack, it's hot in the desert!      

  The cartoony visuals of Season 2 aren't particularly impressive; however, they are adequate and 
 fit the overall theme of the game nicely. There are plenty of bright colors, the fantasy courses 
 are suitably over the top, and there's always some bit of visual flair to be found, whether it's 
 your ball shooting off fireworks in midflight or the word "Pangya!" flashing onscreen in rainbow 
 colors when you hit a perfect shot. Although there are some nice visual elements, the graphics 
 as a whole suffer from a lot of reused elements from the games predecessor. Most of the character 
 models have been recycled, as have many of the courses. Some cutscenes are fully animated, whereas 
 others are nothing more than static screens. There's also no widescreen option, and the game doesn't 
 support progressive scan. The audio does little to help the presentation. Character voices and 
 sound effects are on the annoying side, and there's very little variety to them. The music can 
 best be described as what a movie's director uses when making fun of elevator music.  

  If you appreciated the first Super Swing Golf, you'll certainly enjoy its sequel. It's hard to 
 justify spending $40 when you can play a good portion of the same content on the PC for nothing, 
 but if you're looking for a good, fun golf game for the Wii, Super Swing Golf 2 should fit the 
 bill.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: schimik
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  I only bought this game because of the colorful graphics and anime characters. It was risky to 
 spend my money on a game that I might not like, but it was really worth the money.
  
  For the gameplay, you swing your wiimote control like a golf club. You start by pointing the Wii 
 remote down and bring it up to prepare your swing as if you were holding a real club. The higher 
 you hold your club, the more power you will produce. Then you swing it down while holding the A 
 button. To hit your ball right, the Wii remote must not be twisted at the time of impact. If you 
 don't hit straight, your ball is going to swerve. Hit it right and a voice out of no where yells 
 Pangya!. Some people might not like this swinging system. It took me a lot of practice to hit it 
 right. After mastering the technique, the game becomes pretty addictive. 
  
  In single player mode, you can play on Tour Mode or VS CPU mode. There aren't many difference between 
 those since all you do is play against the computer for a Stroke or a Match play. On the other 
 hand, the Tour Mode looks more like an adventure. You move from a space to another until you meet 
 the boss. On each space, you either fight a computer or play a mini-game. 
  The computers in Season 2 are very easy at start and become very hard at the end. I've never managed 
 to finish the tour mode. 
  
  There are many kinds of courses such as on the beach, mountains, battlefields and more. There are 
 also a large variety of clothes that you can buy to give style to your charaters. The music in 
 this game are pretty catchy. In overall, the game gives a very pleasant atmosphere. 
  
  Super Swing Golf Season 2 is worth a try for its originality and the way it uses the Wii-remote 
 control, which is completely different from the golf game in Wii Sports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  I'm an avid player of Albatross 18 on my PC, I just wish it would come out for Mac due to whenever 
 I play it on the PC it uses up 100% of my CPU and my cooling fans start going crazy. 
  
  Now what I just said is the reason why I pay for a console version of a free to play MMO game. 
 When the first Super Swing Golf came out, I was excited to have an alternative to Albatross 18, 
 but quickly realized it wasn't all sugarplums and gumdrops. It wasn't because of the Wii controls 
 (which were actually quite well done) or lack on Online Multiplayer. IT WAS THE DIFFICULTY!
  
  Right away going through the singleplayer mode the CPU difficulty was going crazy. The first 
 match I played the CPU got nothing but pars and birdies and farther on it was eagles and albatross 
 shots one after another. I couldn't play the game more than a week. 
  
  In the box came a Tecmo customer response card, and this is the one time I filled this out. The 
 following is what I wrote down: "Just because you have a Ninja Gaiden costume in the game, doesn't 
 mean you should this game the golfing equivalent of Ninja Gaiden's hardest mode. Stop asking Tomonobu 
 Itagaki for help, he's a sick and sadistic man. THIS GAME IS HARD" 
  
  Thankfully Season 2's difficulty is MUCH more scaled back and gradually gets tougher not full on 
 rape within the first hour of play. I'm four stages in to the game and still beating opponents 
 into oblivion, so I can say I'm happy so far. 
  
  Everything else with the game is pretty much the same as the first game with some additions of 
 new courses costumes and a new character which puts it on par with it's PC sister game's current 
 Season 3 Revolution (minus some items plus some console only items)
  
  The controls are still solid an a bit easier to hit the ball straight now. In order to swing you 
 first pull back the Wiimote to the power you want, press A, then try and stay straight while you 
 swing the wii mote down. And if you don't have enough room or just lazy, the game offers button 
 only controls as well.
  
  This is fantasy arcade golf. So don't expect it to be totally realistic. You'll have the ability 
 to hit special shots like the Tomahawk which is a huge lob hitting the ground with an explosion, 
 a Cobra which stays low to the ground (letting you go under some openings in some courses) then 
 goes upwards and falls, and a new addition the Spike shot which starts as a normal shot but at 
 descent, makes a straight b-line for the target. All these shots you will be able to add a big 
 backspin or frontspin to each shot which can make for some pretty impressive HIO or chipins. 
 
  
  All the characters are very anime inspired. You have your standard boy and girl starter, your fat 
 creepy old guy, the tall sexy lady, the mysterious looking bad ass, the underage lolitta jail bait 
 (SHAME ON YOU) , the cut magic girl, and now the emo demon kid. All the characters have a ton of 
 items you can unlock or buy which gives the game a huge amount of customization, along with some 
 costumes from other Tecmo games like Ryu Hayabusa and Ayane (both from Ninja Gaiden/Dead or Alive)
 
  
  Over all the game is very enjoyable, and if you're tired of Wii Sports, give it a try. One thing 
 it could stand to have now is online multiplayer so it can finally be put up to par with the PC 
 game, the only problem is the amount of people possibly playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KittyKat
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  While the first version of Super Swing Golf was very weak, this version is a lot stronger. Visually 
 the game is very appealing, sound wise however it's rather lacking. The motion controls in the 
 game are a bit weak when it comes to shooting but otherwise work rather well.
  
  There are a few modes to play: Mini games, Solo Tour, VS CPU and VS Player, all of which are interesting 
 in their own right. Mini games include things like darts, driving, and balloon strike.... darts 
 being highly annoying (at least for me) but the other two are pretty darn fun. I had issues with 
 the motion controls in terms of getting everything dead on and didn't particularly enjoy using 
 the remote as a club but it was enjoyable nonetheless.
  
  Also enjoyable is collecting pang and outfitting your character with weapons for clubs and neat 
 outfits. I didn't tinker with it in multiplayer, but as you move through the solo tour you get 
 new caddies and outfits.
  
  It will take you awhile to get used to the controls, as there are special hits you can use besides 
 just hitting the ball (Tomahawk etc) , and you can apply spin to the ball as well. After about 30-1 
 hour you should have the hang of everything in terms of setting up shots. 
  
  The wind can be quite a challenge, especially in mini games like darts were you need good accuracy 
 to get the points.
  
  Definately worth a rental - and if you enjoy it - a purchase. Good fun with friends, and it is 
 challenging in solo play for those seeking something to sink their teeth into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gSp0t0210
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Being a longtime fan of the Hot Shots Golf! series, I was anxious to try out this game for my Wii. 
 When finding out about the first title, though, and seeing what some of the problems were, I was 
 cautious about getting this game. What I can tell you, though, is that this game, although hard 
 to get a handle for in the beginning, was, and still is, fun to play. Make sure you bring friends.
 
  
  The graphics are right up Wii-Alley. While they won't knock you out of the park, they are the right 
 artistic style to keep the game looking fresh. The courses are fine, and the costumes are always 
 a riot to buy and try. Costumes now give you better skill, but that comes at a price.
  
  To acquire said money, one must play either story mode or vs. mode against the computer. winning 
 obviously grants you a paycheck of Pangya, but special shots, pars, birdies, and otherwise more 
 difficult shots will give you a little extra on the side. Clubs are semi-upgradeable, and from 
 what I've heard, moreso than what was allowed in the first "season".
  
  The music in the game can get annoying, and the very slim voice acting is forgettable at best. 
 You'll want to play some background music if you have the technology.
  
  What keeps this game going, though, is the multiplayer. Parents, Grandparents, roommates, girlfriends, 
 anyone who you've played Wii Golf with will enjoy this game also. Different styles, more than just 
 9 holes, and lots of different styles of characters keeps this game going.
  
  Overall, what Super Swing Golf 2 lacks in graphics and sound, it makes up for in content and gameplay. 
 Although the game will take a high learning curve (not difficult, unfortunately time is no longer 
 an option in gamespot, but I would say 30 mins - 1 hr to understand the mechanics) after you get 
 the feel of it, you'll be playing it for hours. However, if you're not sure about golf games other 
 than Wii Sports, or you've had a sour taste from the previous game, rent it first. Otherwise, enjoy 
 an inexpensive golf game that will keep the party going. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
